ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34484	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of February, we had in this House of the High at first reading the proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land and here I am pleased to say that in a very short time we are seeing each other again with the final proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land. For the introduction of the agricultural land itself is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and enjoys its special protection. Out of nearly 2 million and 700 thousand hectares of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia 890 thousand hectares is land owned by the state or 33%, and in 10 years under the current law we have placed less than 30%, i.e. only 262 thousand hectares. The remaining 67% or almost a million and 800 thousand hectares is private agricultural land. The reasons why we went with the new law are actually a number of obstacles that slowed the process and the process of making agricultural land available through the sale of leases and long-term leases. Then the specific problem and the non-use of agricultural land for agricultural production resulting in increased areas of unprocessed agricultural land. And unfortunately, we had a constant trend of depletion of our production plots that ultimately had a reduction of land area by agricultural economy. The average of the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately about 5.6 hectares per agricultural economy, which is significantly, significantly lower than the EU average. According to the above, the agricultural land available to local administration units and which carried out the entire disposal process are abolished, and thus the current way of making agricultural land available through the sale of long-term leases of agricultural land and long-term leases for ponds is prescribed by the new law. The basic form of availability to agricultural land owned by the State through the lease and lease of fish ponds through a public call for a period of 50 years. In addition, the possibility of temporary availability to state agricultural land, the possibility of granting state-owned agricultural land to use without a public call and, exceptionally, with the aim of rounding agricultural land and selling at market prices is also prescribed. As regards the way and the implementation of the entire availability process, this will be done by the Agency for Agricultural Land through the precise protocol, i.e. a procedure that will be much shorter, more efficient, faster and more transparent and the method of evaluation in the lease of agricultural land will be in such a way that the economic programme carries 60 of the possible 100 points, 20 points carried by the previous owner in peaceful possession on the basis of the holding of agricultural land by a good farmer, and 20 points, or 20% of the valuations in the lease bear the amount of the lease offered. A little over a month ago in this House of Commons, we had a debate that lasted almost one and a half days and we heard a number of good suggestions and suggestions on how to further improve this extremely high-quality bill proposal and we further analyzed that and we installed some of these things in the final bill of law. The differences compared to what your dear colleagues and colleagues were presented to you a month ago are as follows: provisions on ownership rights on agricultural land have been amended in such a way that foreign and legal natural persons can acquire the right to ownership of agricultural land only in the event of succession. The purpose of the funds achieved is to change the purpose of land which is the revenue of the local self-government units, i.e. the City of Zagreb, exclusively for the rounding and bringing up of the function, the increase in the value of agricultural land, the settlement of land-based and catastran state of agricultural land. The number of members of the Committee for the Rental and Rental of Fishmen and the number of representatives of local self-government units has been increased. There we further defined in the original bill were 3 members of the commission, of which 2 were to be members of the agency and 1 unit of local self-government. In the final draft of the law, it is 5 members of the commission, 3 who come from the Agricultural Land Agency, and 2 are representatives of local self-government units. One of which is appointed by the Executive Body of the Local Self-Government Unit, and the other member is appointed or proposed by the representative body of the local self-government unit. In a circle of persons who may be part of the call for leases and leases for ponds and in the right of the championship, they are added to the natural and legal persons who were in the original proposal of the laws and holders of the CAP and cooperatives engaged in agricultural activities, i.e. the activity of aquaculture or whose cooperatives are agricultural producers. It is also further specified that the participant of the lease call and the lease for the ponds cannot be those to whom the agricultural land owned by the State was leased in previous tenders were leased or otherwise used or available. In addition, a lease call shall be made primarily for cadastral particles which constitute a production unit of up to 100 hectares. Where agricultural land is located within a protected area, the call for lease and lease for ponds shall contain specific conditions of nature protection established by the central authority of the State Administration responsible for nature protection tasks. As far as the economic programme is concerned, we have further specified that it will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will also contain a form of the economic programme itself. Provisions on the transfer of rights and obligations under the lease agreement and the lease for ponds to other persons have been amended, separately specified for the OPG, trades or companies. The provisions governing agricultural land owned by a non-agricultural country have been amended in part and since it has grown over several years of growth. There has been a lot of debate on the use, i.e. the purpose of the distribution of the percentages of the funds to go, which will be realised from the leases and the leases for the ponds, and the sale and giving to use without a public call. In the original proposal there were 25, 75, 50:50, and from now on we have adjusted to be 25% of the income of the state budget, 10% of the budget of the units of the district self-government and 65% of the budget of the units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb, where agricultural land is located. It is also in detail in the law and the prescribed use of funds that are income units of local, regional and regional self-government on this basis. Smaller changes were also made in the section of articles that determined, or called for, joint pastures to be leased, the pasture from 20 to 5 years is reduced, and the pasture community does not have to be organised as a cooperative. The provisions of the sale by direct contract have been amended and the size of the cadastrian particles that can be managed in this way is prescribed. It is also the consequence of this debate so that it can be managed by land in such a way that direct neighbors with particles can buy these small edged plots directly with a direct market price contract in the continental Croatia up to 1 hectare and up to 2,000 square meters in the Adriatic region. In this way, with these changes, we are sure that we have proposed this high House to adopt an even better, better and more transparent law with one basic objective of speeding up, the availability of state-owned agricultural land, the increase of agricultural land use, the position of unused agricultural land, the formation of a core of agricultural economies that will have a long-term perspective of agricultural production in terms of land resources. We have given the possibility through this law to speed up the process of cropping up agricultural land and thus improve the work of agricultural economies, introduce greater discipline in the re-use of agricultural land, and finally after 20 years we introduce an information system that will improve the management of agricultural land for the implementation of this law. For the period 2013-2015, funds are provided in the budget and I hope you will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34485	Thank you, Minister. Before we move to replicas and answers to the replica, notice, since only nine clubs and 11 deputies have been reported for this Agricultural Land Act and we plan to conclude the debate on item 4. Agricultural land, 5th, 6th and 7th today, I suggest we don't have a lunch break but we run and drive without a break. Okay? Thank you very much. And now the replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34486	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, for the third time I ask, and I'm curious about what the problem is, I'm interested in the background of this kind of approach and this kind of information that you're constantly manipulating by the amount of hectare of agricultural state land, you keep talking about millions of hectares instead of telling the real truth. And maybe you don't know her, Mr. Minister? The real truth is 200 thousand acres. You may not know her, Mr. Minister, because I already told you, when you and your closest associates came to this ministry, those who worked and negotiated in Brussels, you moved to the 78th Echelon. And if you hadn't, and if your closest associates had made an effort to see what was agreed and how was agreed with Brussels, and among other things, which calculation methodology is recognised by Brussels then you would know that this methodology was agreed and that the methodology for 2005 and 2007. And according to that calculation methodology, Mr. Minister, there are 200 thousand hectares of state-owned agricultural land, which is instantaneous, which we need to talk about, not millions. Why do you deceive the public with these millions?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34487	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister of Agriculture, Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34488	Dear fellow MPs Sumrak mathematics is mathematics, statistics is statistics. I also said in the opening statement that out of nearly 2,700 hectares, 33% of the state's agricultural land, with a number and a letter. You mention, you call yourself 2005, statistics say I have 890,000 acres. It's a sad fact that we actually have more state land but we haven't made the right inventory in 20 years and transferred the land into ownership or into DVRH as we should have. Here's only for examples in my county of Brod-Posavina County where all 28 units of local self-government have made a programme available to agricultural land and managed it according to the management department of the county's agriculture area around 24,000 hectares of state land that is run in another form of ownership in ownership books because it is under existing law they were taking data from the catastra and not from the grantine. 890,000 ha of that, only 262 thousand ha were put in some form under the existing law. Less than 30%. Do we need to talk about the number of units of local self-government that have not at all developed a program of availability or those they have made and have not acted on? Of the 555 units of local self-government, 75 of them do not have agricultural land on their territory, but 74 have not at all developed a programme of availability that was required under the law. Of the remaining ones that some have never made available to the state agricultural land. The basic resource for agricultural production, agricultural land is not put into operation in the right way. We go through this law to use this resource, to enable our farmers to produce better, more, cheaper, more competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34489	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34490	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I'm already worried about what materials are coming into this House. Among other things, a major assessment of the funds needed for the law, to come from somewhere I don't know where, would have somehow understood but that the ministry said the funds were secured in the state budget for the period 2013-2015 was at least offensive to the High House and funny. This High House adopted the 2013 budget and you can only write here how much funds you secured in 2013 and you can only say that the necessary funds will be provided then and then. Otherwise, this act is neither in line with the acts of this House of Commons. The second thing, according to the Budget Law, you have to make an assessment of the fiscal impact, especially for one of these important laws. I tried to read from page one to page one. You don't have a fiscal impact assessment anywhere. And the third thing, the Strategic Investment Act has made a whole storm in the Republic of Croatia. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, this law stipulates that someone can intervene for rounding up certain investments in forest agricultural land, etc. There's no mention of that here. what will happen tomorrow if a piece of agricultural land is intervened a very fertile country, as you have written here, will charge this fee and at the same time talk about giving investors incentives. So you just don't know what's left, what's right. You can't ignore it if the government declares one such law, that it will encourage investment then in this law you can't ignore it, you must at least indicate that it will be arranged by some other law, but if you ignore what law will apply tomorrow. What law will make that count? And then you'll say again that you've freed this incentive, investors of parafiscal burdens. It's one thing when someone's doing it from a whim and the other thing is if it's going to be some kind of investment that's going to be interesting and during the debate there's still a series of things that are unfortunately like this, but Mr. President, I'm going to end it. If there's only one sentence I can do. I don't think we should be allowed as a Parliament to write to us in the period 2013-2015. Because in this House, we only adopted the budget for 2013. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34491	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the Minister of Agriculture, respected Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34492	Dear colleague Shuker, you know that except for the adopted budget for 2013. We also have projections for 2014 and 2015, which provide funds for the Agency's work on agricultural land. This is, among other things, the condition that we have, I think, a colleague referred to what was negotiated with the EU that we must have a projection of the funds and for the next two years for this purpose. I'll remind you that this same Agricultural Land Agency founded in 2009 as it didn't work, it didn't work, and it also spent certain resources on the state budget without any effect. In this way all the funds provided for by the Agency will be returned multiple times, each kuna invested for that purpose will be returned. As for the potential investments you are talking about and which will happen eventually on agricultural land if not in the excessive business areas that we have made, then you could look at a little article 24 that speaks about the reuse of agricultural land and which precisely determines in a specific, item 2 what is going on and how the Government can react according to specific projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34493	Please, Your Honor, it's not, please. Third replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34494	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, you were talking about the average 5.6 ha and the need for rounding up, so it's undeniable to improve production in that part there's no way to do it, but it's the next one. What about those units of local self-government that don't have that option? Which are due to their 80s, as far as I know who don't have it but who have it, let's say, due to their geographical accommodations, etc. They just don't have the opportunity to do it that way. Our farmers, of course, are resourceful and, in terms of survival, have managed. In that sense, I'm particularly proud of our cattlemen. I know that there will be talk here again, you will see again this about livestock and dairy but I keep saying here that dairy at this time since they warned about their difficulties but despite that EU directive 261 which says that it is necessary for farmers in the dairy sector to ensure economic sustainable development. So today it is in Brussels and yesterday are the Council of Ministers of Agriculture where significant decisions could also be made in this regard, but it does not appear in that part. Milkers and cattlemen are on their knees, not to repeat the data I was saying, and more specifically the rulebook, making rules on the regulation of contractual relations in the milk and milk products sector, where the offer of purchasers is persistently avoided. So in this part of it is the biggest problem again is for purchasers so the dairy industry puts in a privileged position and gets strength stronger, and our milkers are in a very difficult position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34495	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34496	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here we can say today that there are developments in listening to the Minister of Agriculture, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia's remarks on the agricultural land law. But those that are important and crucial, which mean for our Croatian peasant heart and essence, they remained unchanged. It remains unchanged that the economic programme is the highest benchmark in the score that will certainly benefit large capital and large corporations in this centralized law. Well, it's clear that neither would a husband work as a director, and his wife as a deputy or assistant at the Ministry of Agriculture, then clearly there is a favor and a strict relationship between the ministry which is actually against the law as described by our laws. You haven't changed anything important. And that you put at least a scoreboard of all 13 items in the economic programme or 14 of them. I don't know how you're going to value it or who's going to value it. By the government's decision or by you personally to give the agency a proposal on how 14 items will be valued? It is an unknown woman who leaves doubt, doubting that you want to benefit from large capital and that you want it, regardless of what you have limited to 100h land so that it can be given. It was more suitable and beautiful in the economic programme available to the agricultural land of our municipalities and cities where it was clearly said how much land the most can be rented in terms of the capacity of a particular municipality or city. We don't think you've even put Croatian defenders first. The funds of municipalities and cities and you saw that the county's programme had extremely good things that they gave to our farmers, you put 10% on them so they wouldn't stay but they had to leave most of the funds for the work of the agency for new employment on the party line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34497	The reply to the replica, respected Tihomir Jakovina, Minister of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34498	Dear fellow Djakic, we have said an economic programme that is precisely and within the law, which is indicated in which way and what it will value. We said unfortunately that in most cases it was back 10 years of political party membership, family, party or similar tribal criteria that were so far. The Croatian Government Regulation will specify exactly how priorities in the economic programme will be evaluated. And these insinuations are quite ominous, unfortunately about a potential conflict of interest you whose former boss or former prime minister has been in court for months now, when we talk about Fimi Media when we talk about Mountainska for which day we are paying significant funds. You're talking about a potential conflict of interest for a colleague who, when she was 27 years old, was a doctorate in her profession, who is a professor at the university for a potential conflict of interest. I think that's very incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34499	My colleagues and colleagues please allow us to retain the dignity of the Croatian Parliament at least at the time when we will talk. When we get the word then we'll talk, please nice. Thank you very much, Minister. We're continuing the debate. Actually, I'm opening a debate. This was an opening show. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the club of IDS representatives and independent representative Furi Radin and respected representative Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34500	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with associates and associates. We of the IDS Club have participated in the debate during the first reading of the bill. Today we also want to make a contribution through the debate to the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act for a reason because it is a strategically important topic of development of the Croatian economy. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the IDS club supports the strategic definition of this law, which is that the land is leased. Furthermore, the IDS Club welcomes the integrated changes in this final draft of the law after the first debate, which is estimated to be good and positive and commendable. However, as I said at the outset, and this is a strategically important topic for the development of the Croatian economy, we at the IDS Club believe that, for the most part, there is much more to be done in this law and that is why I want to look at three topics in my presentation. First of all, every law and so should the Agricultural Land Act be enforceable, should be clear and be transparent. The second is that this law makes one step more qualitative than even now in force, which is that the procedure should be granted to the state agricultural land as simple as possible and that it should finally begin according to the plan with which we went before the citizens with the beginning of the final form of decentralisation. The third topic, which is also very important, is to protect farmers, i.e. they are in no way brought into a subordinate position by small family farms. Why the IDS Club advocates implementation, clear and transparent law and we want to make a contribution for reasons to avoid first and foremost in this law of ambiguity. We note that potentially such an undefined law can open up possible court disputes and avoid all forms of machinations. In our first reading, we have said in our review that otherwise it is not good for the laws that, after their adoption, the Registrar has an autonomous right to bring in a series of regulations as it is in this case. This translated means that without regulations, procedures for the assignment of state agricultural land will not be possible because a number of issues remain open and this is not good and ultimately this proposal for a law with the best intention and its intensity is lost at the very beginning of credibility. Experience teaches us that after each law, they are adopted whether rules or regulations and those rules or regulations are not adopted, are not adopted or very often remain unspecified or, unfortunately, even interpreting themselves because of their indetermination in different ways and in many ways that makes it difficult for one who is obliged to implement the law or prevents the quality of the law, which is not good again. And we from the IDS club are particularly burdened by a regulation made by the minister, which has blocked all agricultural land allocation procedures in this year. On this subject, I would like to refer to something very important for us from the IDS Club, which is the fact that it is not defined by the provisions of this law, which is important and which is closely related to this law, is to define the initial price of the lease and to re-lore the price of the lease of existing lease contracts, which will again be prescribed by the Minister by a rule and again remains a very important issue. So far, rental prices have been different throughout Croatia. In Istria, in particular, the cost of renting agricultural land was regularly higher than it was in other parts of Croatia. In Istria, the coastal area, islands and continental flat-rate part of Croatia are not equal to the conditions of agricultural production both at the cost of preparing the soil but also at the cost of production. Therefore, we at the IDS Club hold that the initial lease price for these areas should be significantly lower in order to at least help farmers, specifically for us in Istria. The final draft of the law states that certain procedures for the allocation of state agricultural land, which have not been implemented until the end because either the resolution ministry or the county state's attorney's office is waiting, and that's good, that's great. But today, I would ask the minister to take this issue because I know the situation on the ground in Istria, that further open problems remain, that the procedures that have been completed, waiting for the verification of the county's state's attorney's office are not over, farmers are losing their patience because the competent state authorities are interpreting your regulation differently. Furthermore, I ask you to also address questions that we have not received answer to this day, and it is related to the harmonisation of cultures both in the catastrus and in the grantovnica. In particular, I also offer a proposal for a solution, if all those procedures are based on positive legal rules, and I offer the correct solution, which is to sign contracts on the part of the county state's attorney's office, and that those who have come into a lease relationship take the obligation to coordinate cultures in every form, financial and other form. Furthermore, a second important area, the IDS Club advocates that the land allocation procedure should be as simple as possible. By this law, we're definitely making it even more complicated. Instead of going to the announced decentralisation, we're masters of a more complex situation and we're going even into a more rigid form of centralization. That is why we have a clear view that we should leave the granting process in charge of municipalities and cities for the lease of state agricultural land. Why do we insist on that? Because the IDS Club has experience that through very intense work, a very complex procedure we have come to the conclusion that we already have teams of people who have been working on this demanding topic for almost over a decade, on this demanding problem, and instead we just need to form an agency, we just need to team people, people who don't even know the situation on the ground, and we also forget that any situation as far as state agricultural land is concerned is not the same, both in Istria or we can't compare it in any way as it is in Slavonia. The first reason we have such a proposal is because the land is not sold, because today it is and because tomorrow it remains a state, translated into it means that land status does not change. The second reason I did say, teams of people from municipalities and cities have worked all these years on land assignments, these people know very well the procedures, they're referred to with the situation and the problems on the ground. From a 12-year experience, I would like to make a concrete and practical example of the town of Rovinj. During the course of four extensive competitions, we have carried out a number of advances in the preparation of the competition. We did a job, and we did it specifically for the state because we registered in state ownership 90% of the area. We did the identification of our land which went to the competition and daily because we were at the service and all applicants. And that is why we point out that this law really foresees one illogicality, and the illogicality which is unacceptable that an employee, no matter how competent, no matter how high-quality a remote control without seeing the country, without having insight into the situation on the ground, without seeing interested parties, will be the one who will be in a position to decide who will come into possession of certain land. And that's why we're in favour of decentralisation and that really with this bill of law, maybe I want to be rude to the agency, we're creating a gray eminence. It's the third subject. The IDS Club advocates that protection and non-subordination of the small family economy. As prescribed by the Istra law, we are concerned that small family economies will be such a system of points and excluding a programme of agricultural land totally in a subordinate position. I heard in the first debate that without the big ones, there were no small ones. We from the IDS Club have the view that large systems are equally important, but also that they are equally important and small family economies. And that is why we are not in any way giving priority to large systems, nor that small family economies are placed in a subordinate position, and that is why we want to point to the following. The law stipulates, as in the opening letter, Mr. Minister said the economic programme would have the next order of the championship according to the system of points. Economic programme 60 points, so far owner of 20 points, height offered 20 points. So, on behalf of the economic programme, of the total of 100 points, 60 points refers to the economic programme itself, and indeed if we enter the measure matter of the economic programme, in no way does it give our small farmer any opportunity to be chosen as the most favourable bidder. In this way, specifically in Istria, small family economies, our farmers who always process olive groves and vineyards on small agricultural areas with modest mechanisms and within the family will never have enough points to assess. The order of the championship that this law is proposed for small family economies, and especially for those in Istria, is very harmful. However, I would like to attach one of the following facts, which is important and which we must see as a link between the score of the economic programme and this proposal, to the final proposal of the law on the decommissioning of the obligation to make and to act under the agricultural land programme that has so far been committed and which has been good. That's why we have a clear view that he must remain in the law. We can't have people looking through the prism like the legalization of illegally built objects through Slavonia chickens. There are specificities. Istria is one thing, Dalmatia is another, Slavonia and Baranja is something quite third and absolutely incomparable to each other. The agricultural land distribution programme has enabled a local self-government unit to determine exactly the maximum surface area, the maximum number of hectares that one individual can reach. We're shutting down that possibility now. And now I'm tying up the credits system in the economic programme and throwing out the agricultural land distribution program. So, the one who has the sinister hands, the one who really works, the one who contributes to agricultural production, and in Istria it is the small family economies that have contributed to agricultural production in relation to someone who is strong, who is powerful, who has money, who will be able to pay for that agronomial, he will potentially come into a position to own his land because he shuts down and throws out a programme of agricultural land. And it's absolutely something that's not good, but not just to ask myself. I'm asking all of us tomorrow who want to vote on this bill. Whether we're chosen by a little man or in that whole story, a little man just lost himself. And the question is really here the moral responsibility of how we stand when we vote on this law. Instead of preserving small family economies, instead of motivating them, instead of motivating small family economies and giving them support to join in cooperatives with such a bill, they are definitely placed in a subordinate position and I will repeat opening up the possibility. I'm not saying it's gonna happen, but the law is the law and the law will have to be implemented. There's really a potential open space for a powerful man to report to all the particles he wants to get. We propose, we advocate decentralisation, for the protection of a small man, a small family economy, to remain a land-based programme, to wherever they are mentioned...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34501	Thank you very much. We heard that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34502	Let me just say one sentence. Excuse me, please. Everywhere the agencies are mentioned, the word of the agency is thrown out and the jurisdiction of the authority remains with the units of local self-government because it is the only way this law will be enforceable. And what's important and what's key is agriculture is a strategically important economic branch.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34503	Thank you very much. Now we have an extended time of six replicas. The first is replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34504	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Sponza appreciates your thinking and I agree naturally on decentralisation and in that I have nothing to add, but also thinking about the agency, about its ability and guaranteeing transparency and the point itself not to elaborate that part further. But most certainly I was encouraged by the part where you said that small family economies should not be brought into a subordinate position. I agree, of course, and here, but what I'm trying to say is that a number of small families and smaller and mediums are gone, they're gone. And every day it goes down 10 to 15, every day. And as long as this goes hand in hand, God knows how many more of them will be in this statistical section. There is, therefore, a particularly difficult situation in the dairy sector. I know that in Istria as well dairy is significant etc. And it's been happening since the very beginning, which has been warned by cattlemen and milkmen that the dairy industry has put itself in a position of privilege. And further, in the earlier replica, I was also speaking of making this regulation itself again puts the dairy industry in a privileged position, and these small family economies in a subordinate position. Well, only the information works every day on such a policy is lost by milkmen at around 180 thousand kunas, per day. So how much at the level of the year. And all these examples thus speak for how small family economies are carried out simply in the deleted space and fail daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34505	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34506	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your colleague Sponza is well-established not only in Istria, and in Podravina and part of Slavonia the same situation with agricultural land. Equally, there is little or insufficient for all to be content and to be able to use and live by it. I am sure that the transparency in the work so far carried out by municipalities, cities, municipal councils where the state's attorneys gave consent, where the holders of the CAP whose agricultural core activity was priority. The only thing that should have been put there was that the employees of the OPG were just as busy as they were to exercise the right of employment. And then it's a whole system that would certainly value family farms. This is clear by centralisation through a three-member agency, and the local self-government two is clearly talking about how the agency will decide everything, how the central government will tell who the land is going to go to, how surely those who have 100 tractors will be priorityd as well as those who have 100 million incomes written in the economic programme that business over the past year is and so is business through the final year as well as one of the conditions that will be evaluated in this non-existent evaluation which here is not in favour of this law. So, if they had clearly given us the criteria for the evaluation of this economic programme by all 14 segments, they would probably have been able to calculate what 60 points are carrying and what land is going to belong to. To those who have the most money, those who have the most tractors and those who have the most employees. I believe that's because it can't be any different given the eclectic conflict of interest that is happening in your ministry as you yourself were in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34507	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34508	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sponza, here we have heard what you will stand for through this law. Unfortunately, for everything you stand for in this law there is no such thing. There is simply no reason to believe that the family farmer, a peasant, has been demoted and humiliated here since he's known for his agricultural production. Two hundred thousand of those OPGs are down to zero. 200 thousand OPGs are not allowed to buy land to strengthen their family's agricultural economy, their credit performance is disabled, better and faster development is disabled. And what is worst by mid-May 2013 is that agricultural holdings have to report the number of hectares they process otherwise cannot exercise their right to support. Mr. Minister, if you start applying this disastrous law in 5 minutes today when particles will be introduced into the ARCOD or indeed this law is meant for those, that small percentage that has more than 100 hectares of land, and it is known who is in Croatia today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34509	Next replica and respected representative Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34510	Dear Mr. President, well, dear colleague Sponza, you've very well detected a number of wrongs in this law, and indeed man has no other choice but to agree with that. It is unfortunate, however, that a series of your remarks, practically all your remarks that are absolutely justified, come too late. Unfortunately, because as you all understand this whole discussion is lar pur lar. We all know very well that by ruling who at this point has about 15 of everything in the assembly the day after tomorrow will come in the corresponding number of 80s, raise their hands and we know that they will vote it all no matter how missed it was and no matter how contrary to all that they declared when they went to the elections. Let's remember, we were talking about decentralisation, and they were actually getting points in many areas. A series of procedures that culminated with this is now talking about exactly the opposite, about an extraordinary centralization. And this is the best example of how one agency from one centre will determine all and all, every hectare of the country in every village in Croatia will decide on it, etc. So, unfortunately, we can talk here now whatever we want, it's the 2nd reading of the law, it's going to be voted on even though it's disastrous, although all of us, I believe some verbally clear, and some deep down, but because of the party's discipline, they're going to have to raise their hand, we agree that these are not good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34511	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34512	Here I would like to refer to Mr. Rainer's statement in detail when he said that what's on my side on behalf of the IDS Club was said to be too late. No, it's not too late because the same attitude was very clearly articulated, both pronounced and highlighted at 1st reading. I also made it very clear that I also expressed it during this second reading. And there's something else I'd like to say, we from the IDS Club don't go back, we from the IDS Club look forward. We have looked and we have compared the existing and valid law and this final bill and we want our contribution, regardless of what we are equal, and the correct and constructive members of the Kukuriku Coalition, we simply want to make a contribution to making this law even more quality as it from our point of view, and yesterday all the farmers from Istria met and also confirmed these positions which they are very, very seriously concerned about. So we're articulating what's going on in the field, where the problem is, and we want to make our contribution to make the law a better quality. And I believe that if we have an open space, a dialogue area where we concentrate on concrete facts, concrete arguments should be seen as a contribution and a constructive proposal, and in no way as a destruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34513	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative Josip Djakic, I do not apologize to Boris, Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34514	Thank you very much, President. Dear Mr. Sponza, I'll look back on this part where you look back at the score. I last time in my debate made the whole lab why it's not good 60:20. However, here is an explanation of the applicant in the final proposal. They don't accept what we said, 40 points for a peaceful owner, 40 points for an economic programme, and 20 points for a rent because it says here, that's the proposal's definition. It's a disaster, and it's all about that article on the 30th, and it's the biggest problem, and I don't know why you're a member of the club then, etc. with these remarks, not just this one, but decentralisation, etc. Do you support such a bill? This is the end of the Croatian village, near the Croatian peasants. This way 40:40:20 is normal because all three criteria get important. At 6:20 a.m., two criteria are worth nothing. You can get for one kuna on a nice economic programme that can only make big corporations everything, and one that offers a million kunas with a bad economic programme will lose everything. It's a shame for both the state and the small economy or the small OPGs. And that's why I don't understand your position, but it's even less clear to me that the government is. The government and the minister don't want to fix it, it's a disaster. What does it mean when one criterion exceeds the other two? So why do we need the other two, so let's delete them, they don't matter, they don't matter at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34515	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34516	Mr. Boric, this is a remote little echo I'd say, but don't be an interpreter of my or our views from the IDS club. During the first debate on behalf of the IDS Club, I made it very clear on what conditions the IDS Club wants to support this law. I believe that from this debate it is more than unequivocally and precisely clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34517	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34518	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Sponza, right on the trail of this, these last sentences of yours. And in the debate in the 1st reading, and now no one here is thinking realistically about the problems of Croatian peasants, who is thinking about Croatia needs big companies, but also that we need tens of thousands of OPGs not to support what you discussed, but whether we who are not tight with party discipline and clearly force those who propose this law to think about the OPG, is there no production in Croatia without the OPG? Where are we going to join these people who are now working on their households on their property with a military of 370,000 unemployed? And this law clearly points to that, because if he doesn't have a chance for us to win the country in the competition, then we're telling him, and that was the move of the 50th, 60th year of the great industrialization of Yugoslavia when the people of the villages were lyphed into industrial plants and then the villages were left without peasants, and the industry was practically out of experts. What's being offered today? It's easy to talk about where the former agricultural combinations used to be that someone would buy 100 and 200 acres. And let's be honest that some big ones didn't buy such big drives today, Baranja would be in a lot of trouble because no one had the strength to invest so much, but as there is in the economy that basic economic theory that large, small and medium and craftsmen are part of a successful economic system, so in Croatia if we want to talk about Croatian tradition, if we want to talk about Croatian village then no one has moral, human or political right to ignore the OPG.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34519	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34520	As you have bound yourselves to my last sentence, I will now bind myself to your last sentence, and only to say to a people's wise saying, "All eggs are not kept in the same basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34521	Thank you very much for the smart people. It is now the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34522	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues. There are many trees for paper on which implementing measures have been written in agriculture but there has never been a reasonable answer to the question of what we actually want in agriculture. What do we need in agriculture? What can we do in agriculture? Only when these questions are answered can they apply to useful, enforceable and fair laws and to agricultural land. If we adopt the agricultural land law before that for the survival and development of our city, too important an agreement that I spoke about and the first reading that we could call a strategy because the answers to what we need to produce, what we want to produce and what we can produce and finally what market we want to place on what we produce is a strategy. Then the Agricultural Land Act will be another stumbling block if we don't. Or even a source of new corruption, new quarrels, new dissatisfactions. Like any other European country, Croatia owns over one million ha of agricultural land, which is one third of the total available agricultural land. There is no country in Europe owned in relation to the size of the territory of such a large area of the country. Of that state agricultural land, about 400 thousand ha is arranged, farmed land and the overall struggle for land is being fought around the redistribution of this regulated, valuable and fertile land. For the other 700 thousand ha of state land if this land is not in the construction zone or in tourist areas, no one cares or is subject to any interest or law written for it. Of these 400 thousand acres of land so far, about 200 thousand ha have been miraculously converted and so much land is available to agricultural businesses. The company produces about 52% of the total primary agricultural production and sells about 64% of the total domestic production of agricultural products on the domestic market, respectively. From the moment 200 grand of land was privatised, the reduction was rather than the increase of agricultural production. From that moment on, by privatising 200 thousand ha of first-class land, we became importers and addicts of foreign agricultural products and until 1993, so at the time of the most severe aggression on Croatia, we were exporters of food and agricultural products. In addition to the state agricultural land in Croatia there are about 2 million ha of private-owned agricultural land and this is land beyond any state concern. Of these two million ha of agricultural land, about 1.2 million ha is processed and about 800 thousand ha are pastures and meadows. If we want to solve our agricultural problems, we need to design equally rationally both private and state-owned agricultural land. For 20 years now, under the cover of agricultural land arrangements, authorities have been dealing with the clients' division of state land on which new users have achieved poorer production results than previous ones as soon as they have been leased. In these 20 years, the privatisation of agricultural land has only done harm. I'm afraid the damage caused by the unclear criteria of land allocation will also cause this law. About 400,000 families live in Croatia and about 720 thousand people own private agricultural land. In Western European countries under the technological standard and competitiveness of labour and one person can work with existing technology on average 33 ha of agricultural land and Croatia has about 600 000 ha of arable and about a million and about 400 thousand ha of pasture, successful and competitive agriculture can employ up to 50,000 active farmers on its land, whether employed in agricultural enterprises. The more farmers are engaged in this particular agricultural land, the higher the agricultural cost, and the lower the competitiveness. 4 million 300 000 consumers living in Croatia pay more prices for domestic agricultural products both because of the fragmentation of parcels and because of unwatered land and because of the European average of much higher numbers in the production of employed agricultural producers. We must arrange agricultural production by producing enough food for our own people and one part for export. Evidence that we have well organized agricultural production will be cheaper than today and more competitive food in European terms. Croatia is currently producing food that is more expensive than food produced in countries that have recently joined the EU. Croatian food is even more expensive than food in the same quality category as food produced in older EU members. Food that is 20% more expensive than it should be is the result of a poor agricultural structure. Consumers transfer about 8 billion kuna a year due to higher prices of agricultural products and food. Through the incentive, about 2.5 billion to 4 billion kuna is invested in domestic agriculture and through payments of agriculture, a further two billion kunas. So in Croatia, about 14 billion kunas are transferred annually to agriculture. If we add to that a trade deficit of 10 billion kuna a year, it's not hard to calculate that bad agricultural policy costs us over 24 billion kunas a year, a fifth of the budget. And since land policy is the cornerstone of agricultural production of such a agricultural land law with unclear criteria and rules for the assignment of land not only to reflect but also to help and increase damage. Croatia has never had such a strong peasant stock that it could compete with rural stocks in Western European countries. In Croatia, on traditionally fragmented, small peasant estates, peasants produced food for owners, but produced as much as 80% of total food consumption. The sale of food from large estates reconciled 20% of the needs of the city's population. Such a agricultural structure did not result in the creation of qualified farmers who could produce food for the market and ensure a solid standard of production for themselves and their families. Yes, I repeat, an objective big problem is that Croatia does not have a rural group trained enough and organised enough to compete with farmers from Western European countries. In the Netherlands, for example, around 1600 years ago, only 20% of the population were farming, and that 20% produced agricultural products for 80% of the population. The Dutch peasants were not, nor are they now so effective because they are supernaturally gifted for agricultural production and because their climate towards peasants is more merciful, and their country is more fertile. As for natural characteristics, Croatian peasants are in favour. Then what's the catch? In the organization, helping countries in education to protect domestic production in the awareness that domestic purchases are made even more expensive compared to the agricultural country in irrigation in the safe purchase of products and, of course, the country's non-human relationship with peasants. Since the independence of Croatia, agricultural land has been used for various political subjugation and clientelistic settlements, land has been rewarded with party value and relation. As a result, land allocated for use, known to which OPGs, decreased food production. About why the reduced production wasn't taken into account. A particular problem is the allocation of land to large producers or tycoons who are privileged to Croatia and who are actually leading Croatia. Many such aspirations on agricultural land want what is logical to obtain a regulated agricultural land without having in mind the overall state interests and there is a major difficult problem. In particular, interests in the distribution of land at local level have those policy options that keep local policy under control, and the interest in the central distribution of the agricultural country has those political options that do not have a strong impact on the country, so they can only subscribe to their stakeholders by central decision on what this law does. Each Law on Agricultural Land has come down to who will assign land and under which it is mostly for its stakeholders to set criteria. The results of the new country's redistribution were few who cared. It is not bad to note that in the former state of retired South, Croatia had about $600m of surplus trade in agricultural products and food, it had an overseas surplus of between $200m and $300m. So the total surplus was close to a billion dollars. For that money, 40 million barrels of oil could be purchased at that time, which would now amount to more than $4 billion. Instead of surpluses, Croatia today also has a huge deficit in food. I fear that this law, without previously adopted strategy and deadlines, will not significantly improve this bad situation. It can be even more complicated or impoverished due to unclear criteria and the possibility of manipulation with the purchase of state land. Croatian Labourists have also pointed out this when we first discussed the law, anti-sales and agricultural land and anything else owned by the state. Why? Because agricultural land is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid the Agricultural Land Agency won't be able to monitor and implement everything that's been given by law to jurisdiction. Unfortunately, the main criterion for land allocation remains the economic programme that brings 60 out of 100 points. The evaluation of the programme can be and will be the biggest manipulation in the allocation of agricultural land. And Croatian Labour Labour Labour Labour Labs have given an amendment to Article 3(2) where forest land is reduced by hundreds of thousands of hectares by a provision to suggest that anything that is maquis can be converted into agricultural land. We believe that this manipulation will also be the goal of devoting forest property and others that it can be easier to trade. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34523	Thank you, Your Honor. Six replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's go in order, first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34524	So the point of this second reading is that the essential and fundamental provisions of this new Agricultural Land Act are not accepted at all. It's total centralization. It's a good thing the land is on lease, long-term lease, it's a 50-year question if that's a good thing. It's no longer decided in local self-government units, and I'm telling you from experience, no local sheriffs have shared the country. Now we'll have federal sheriffs at the agency who'll share the country through the agency and full centralization will take place in deciding on this very important resource. So it is not important at all, and units of local self-government are in any case part of the Republic of Croatia and part of the structure of the Republic of Croatia and we cannot look separately at them from the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And the most important thing, it's this article 30, which really allows great manipulation through the economic programme, but also through the cost of the rent. But what is most important today, that many family economies and legal and natural persons dealing with agricultural production have not resolved the question of the contract, these one-year contracts, such as around 70% in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and none of them can exercise the right to incentives. So I saw here also the president of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, and he can't claim his 92 hectares that work in the area of the City of Đakov, and they sown.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34525	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34526	Well, the most important thing is the criteria. I spoke in my presentation about the fact that there were never clear criteria. The ways in which land has been allocated so far, and especially when land has been allocated or sold to large systems, they say that it is not in the best interest to give land to those who will actually produce and educate those who will actually produce it because all the data says that we are increasingly producing agricultural products and food, that we are increasingly importing and that what we have so far is bad. In this law, it is these very criteria for the way agricultural land will be allocated 60%, this 30th article you said, 60 percent on the basis of an economic programme that certainly raises a lot of doubt because it is not explained by what criteria and it will be one commission, or agency, that will be able to allocate land. As I said, since the SDP Kukuriku coalition does not have a foothold in the country, it has centralized and will now decide which farmer will get in the country's land. I don't think that's a good thing and this law is too much of a rush and it's going to do a lot of damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34527	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34528	Dear colleague Vuksic, you mentioned in your debate and well pointed out the issue of food imports and we remind again that it is simply not normal for the Republic of Croatia, which has not only produced enough for itself, but also today has the capacity to meet its needs and to export, that today we have a situation to import 40% of food, while in the countries of the community where we enter the average of about 8%. So our own food production, what we are constantly stressing is even a question of national sovereignty and for this reason is a very worrying fact which, this is just a continuation of a policy that unfortunately takes place all 20 years when it comes to Croatian agriculture because over the past 20 years, we have practically imported nearly $30 billion of food in that value in 23 years, and exported only 18 years of independence. So this 11 billion-dollar deficit is something that needs to be taken into account when we are planning a farm development strategy because this is all that is done today not only not only improves the situation but also makes it worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34529	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34530	Dear fellow Buric, yes, no one is concerned about what you just said, it's the biggest problem. We're so, not 40, 45 percent on data importing food, it doesn't concern anyone. We were self-sufficient in food production, so we could reduce that state deficit so much. What it indicates is that no one wants to correct these tragic results, that the import lobby is run by the Republic of Croatia, that they are actually masters. And look, please, who are the biggest importers of food in Croatia, they are certainly not small farmers' producers, but they are large corporations that condition this probably Agricultural Land Act and that condition a lot. Croatia, as I said for the first time in the debate on agricultural land, if it were covered by a wall in six months, we would all starve to death. It's something terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34531	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34532	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Vuksic, you wondered in your debate why food is more expensive in Croatia than in the European Union. Clearly, because we are uncompetitive and on small surfaces we cannot produce enough to be competitive. so we can give a less price. A bill like this goes in favor of that. It continues such one, let's say we continue in the wrong direction, and we should allow these small economies, the OPGs, to reach larger surfaces because those whose food we import are cheaper. They have, in their policy towards these small farmers over the past twenty, thirty years, increased the average area 3 to 4 times. There are countries in the EU that do not allow companies to own state agricultural land at all. It's a fact, and all we have to do is say what we want. A law like this doesn't make any difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34533	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34534	Well, the problem is, in fact, what we said several times, was what we highlighted in the first debate on the Law on Agricultural Land, which is the Strategy of Agriculture. What do we need to produce, how do we produce, how do we build up our economies, when we're finally watering? My colleague Novak was also a colleague of yours in Iran about ten days ago. They said there was no agricultural land that wasn't irrigated. Croatia that has so much water doesn't talk about it at all. We have a shamefully few irrigated land, and it is not irrigated because it is not in the interests of those who decide it. And I repeat, the import lobby continues to operate Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34535	A new replica and respected representative, Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34536	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you mentioned several things in your debate, which is that Croatia had the self-sufficiency of its production during Yugoslavia and that we then exported food without importing it. A colleague, at that very time small farms were destroyed, and at that very time the peasant was leaving his country because at that time he could not live from his country and work. Indeed, there were great combinations and good things to do back then, but these are the beginnings when the village was crushed. The second part of you forget that there was a war in 1990. In 1998, Croatia was mined, agricultural areas were mined, forests were mined. It was supposed to start rebuilding, it was supposed to start from the beginning. The stock fund was destroyed. There are three criteria. What I think should be reiterated here today is that, in no way or in any way, it is not possible to ignore the criteria in the adoption of a programme of agricultural land that was brought by municipalities, cities because it is, of course, those who know what they want to develop and what is the interest of their agricultural producers. Whether it'll be fruit growing, whether it'll be warfare, whether it'll be a farming country or something. There's no more today. Backward support has been reduced here in the second year two budgets by nearly two billion, two billion kunas of support have been reduced and what we are going to do now. Yesterday and today, the Council of Ministers of Agriculture of the EU countries is being held and maintained in Brussels. Mr. Minister, I'm personally interested in why you're not there. Which is why you are not where Croatia's future is decided, and you are invited. [[Leko: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34537	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34538	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Vuksic, he's gone. A colleague Vuksic made one claim that agricultural production should be organised in a way that produces sufficient quantities of food, especially for domestic needs, of course for export. And it's clear that we have potential, so the waist at least claims to feed almost 25 million people. But it's also clear and it's known that it takes nearly five to six years for a cycle to get results in agriculture mainly in livestock. And now after those efforts that were made under the operational programmes where very clear indicators showed how much milk production increased, meat production. Unfortunately, we are now witnessing, unfortunately that milk production is almost 20% to 30% lower, that meat production has also fallen to a significant percentage. Of course, natural quality raw materials for the processing industry have been subsequently threatened. You see how easy it is in a very short time to destroy and restore very difficult circumstances, so that segment is mainly livestock and dairy. And we're on a historic chance, we're in a historic opportunity mostly now in the making of a milk package, sir, so to speak. Mr. Minister's milk package to sort of place our dairy in an equal position, and unfortunately, the dairy still remains and loses significant resources daily, because of this relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34539	Thank you, too. Next and last replica after this debate and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34540	Well, colleague, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, I don't really know how much it makes sense to replicate when a colleague of Vuksic doesn't have one, but because of the truth, there's some information to be said, because when the data is presented, the numbers, and they are not methodologically put on the same level, it turns out to be funny. Turns out there was no war in Croatia, it turns out that the Croatian East and Slavonia and Baranja were not occupied at all, that the stock fund was not destroyed, that the large PICs were practically not doing a number of other things at all. But what is crucial is that we must not look at agriculture without it being an economy. Agriculture is an economic branch and according to the same principles as the economy is spoken of, so should agriculture. How large agricultural economies can come up with financial resources we need to make it possible for this OPG law to reach the country, and through the HBOR and other banks they need to be able to reach financial resources because, unfortunately, the biggest problem is to reach financial resources while large financial resources can be made far easier. And I'd like to say something, it's not good to create antagonism for anyone. If it wasn't for big, probably PIK Vrbovac wouldn't even exist today, and the question is what would happen with PIK Belje and some others because simply a small one wouldn't get the money to invest in it. But there is where tradition is and where the OPG has a very high potential and the state needs to allow them to get financial resources, to develop that agriculture on agricultural holdings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34541	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposing respected Tihomir Jakovina, Minister of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34542	Thank you, Mr. President. So such a sharp and reasoned debate and great interest once again only confirms fellow Shuker how important agriculture is, in fact, the strategic branch of the economy. I will try with regard to the number of reports and individual debates not to respond exactly to each, but after these two clubs in some way I have to look around and give further clarifications. We're talking about the effectiveness, clarity and transparency of this law. As important as it is to us, and it is extremely important that this law be brought to life as soon as possible so that we can make this resource that has not been put into office all these years, that is to say, to rule in the right way, we have decided that this law is going in two readings, to make good preparations, good and tribbes and public discussions very broadly. After all, the debate in this assembly has shown that a number of proposals have been incorporated into the final draft of this law, and therefore I do not see what is now going back into some things that have marked both past law and 10 years of non-transparent, unquality, slow way to dispose of agricultural land. Especially when it comes from the right side of the assembly which, in general, wrote and tailored and carried out the management of agricultural land according to the model that was so far. When we talk about the possibility, i.e. the way and simplicity of implementing this law and the number of sublegal acts if you have read the first draft of the law that was and now you have seen that we have installed certain things in the law and thus reduced the number of sublegal acts, i.e. the regulation that will regulate certain things. And what is left to be done through the regulations can tell you that drafts or drafts of the regulations are already ready and that within the shortest time, such expert commissions will work on them and will be composed of a series of institutions involving themselves producers and units of local self-government and regional self-government will give the best solutions. When we talk about simplicity, or the process so far, I can show it with a single scheme. This is a scheme of management of agricultural land under the old law. It took a minimum of six to five years with a sequence. This is a governance scheme under the new law. When we talk about representation of local self-government units, that is, by the people who work at the agency. Well, they're not the people that Minister Jakovina invented. These are people who for years, professional people who have worked for years at the Ministry of Agriculture, at the Department of Agricultural Land and who have moved to the Agricultural Land Agency and will continue to do their job. We have put two in the commission of five members and two members of the units of the area, or local self-government, which in a very quality way as someone who has experience, who has knowledge from the field, into the final decision on the selection of the most favourable farmer of agricultural land. We often refer here to Article 30, but it is not about Article 29. Article 29 determines exactly what will be evaluated in the economic programme. So far the business of the economy, agricultural production as the primary activity of the call participants, the professional preparation, the ratio of the number of artificial... and the land at the disposal of the holding if we are talking about the livestock fund, the availability of the necessary machinery, the type of production planned, the distance from the land to which we have leased, in some way, domicillities, or agricultural producers in its cadastrian municipality, or individuals of local self-government. Whether agricultural production is an ecologically integrated system of production, the number of employees, planned new employment, the insurance market for products, innovation, environmental impact. These are all criteria to be evaluated in the economic programme. What have we had so far? We had municipal and city councils that decided by the criteria that were pretty vague. I think there are 200 thousand family economies being said here in the debate. For the award, whether for sale, whether leased or leased for a long time was often such criteria that people working in public administrations who had nothing to do with primary agricultural production and the activities of what an active farmer would say in the EU, i.e. economies that live and work from agricultural production. Not to mention pensioners, lawyers and all other activities and occupations that unfortunately got agricultural land. For 10 years, there was plenty of time under the existing law to put much, much more land into operation than boredom. All these criticisms about this law that will make it possible I think they're unfounded. Dear fellow Sponza unfortunately not all units of the local self-government town of Rovinj so that they did so much work on agricultural land but I must also point out in your case that unfortunately from 1766 hectares you have, I mean state land in the town of Rovinj, you managed to put in some form of availability below 10%. I think there's only about 128 acres of rent somewhere, and there's been a return of about 24 acres. So, in 10 years under the current law, we have very little conductivity. I'm not saying that it is, and I know what the problems were with having land in Istria, but it shows how slow and ineffective the law was. My colleague Vuksic is gone, we are talking about the strategy of agriculture, we have written strategic documents back ten years which unfortunately were a dead letter on paper and have not been fully implemented. We had good examples and good projects, out of operational programmes, out of capital but unfortunately the whole system worked so that there was no control, that there was no good connection between institutions, science, professions, advisory services and all those who were supposed to be well connected to make these huge investments and talking about dozens of billions of kunas invested in agriculture. In the end, they had what was meant to be produced better, more, more competitive and cheaper. Yeah, we're not just enough anymore, we've had a series of negative trends in almost all sectors and segments of agricultural production, and we can't turn it overnight. And we'll do it even slower and more inefficient if the resources we have, it's agricultural land as such we don't use. This ministry that I run my team has a vision, we have a mission, we know what our goals are, and we have strategic definitions. We are talking about land reform, we are talking about regulating the market and the support system, we are talking about the need to bring together agricultural producers, producer groups, organisations, cooperatives, clusters and we are talking about the much better use of EU funds and funds that are available to us and that will be available to us when we enter. And that's where we already have the results. And because our land reform is a very important colleague of the twilight, which is very important to us today, I am here today. For months already, 15 months we have been on the Council of Ministers at least once a month and this week is a strong working group in Brussels. We also have our representatives on the mission so you don't have to worry that the interests of the Republic of Croatia are not high-quality and will not be as high-quality as they are at the Council of Ministers' meetings represented and that's why we're fighting. There's very little time left, and there's a lot you can open up in this debate. The economic programme is not a problem, the problem is that they were vague, not transparent and poor criteria so far, which really people who were agricultural producers could not reach this important resource. And don't, once again, please, don't scare the people with the economic program. All our real agricultural producers will be able to easily fill out questionnaires that will actually make up the skeleton of this economic programme, describe their agricultural production and say how they continue to deal with and develop their family economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34543	Thank you, too. The first notice, at 10:57, has expired time for the hearing to be called within 10 minutes of this subject in accordance with Article 207. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And now 7 replicas have been reported to your presentation by the respected minister. The first replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34544	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, when you say you're in favour of putting your land into function, I'd say that's not true since you're being denied by your instructions sent to all units of local self-government on 12 January 2012 and put the moratorium at your disposal by your instructions. So you've put the law out of force with your instructions. It's one thing that really you, you can't challenge her, which is clear and loud with your signature. Another thing I want to say, so you forgot that Croatia is entering the EU, has signed certain laws, has made some adjustments. You are suspending the Charter of Local Self-Government that you are taking away the rights and jurisdiction of local self-government to work in the area of agricultural land, to decide on it, to implement its economic plan, to implement what all political parties have agreed on in most unanimous decisions by municipal and city councils have made a plan for the availability of agricultural land. I don't know who you're suspending today by this law, I can only say that you've taken away the right of the county to carry out further from the funds what they've been doing, and that's also a program of livestock development in three items, a program of plant production that they've financed from these collected funds that you're now taking away from them. Equally, the rural development programme in seven items that our county can generally boast that Virovitica-Podravska County in 15 items of the programme co-financed farmers to do better, and to produce more, and to have as much as possible. You're taking that away from them today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34545	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34546	Dear fellow Djakic, you know for yourself because we have discussed many times that the guide we issued in January was only an explanation of the existing law that says that the local self-government unit that did not have agricultural land under the programme that brought this more than 1.1. In 2012, I can't work. In some cases, it's better that I can't work, because as the results have worked, unfortunately we can see. This is about the fact that, in some ways, the rights of the districts, or cities and municipalities, are not standing. We have only taken responsibility for managing the most important resources for agricultural production. When we talk about the fact that the county will not be able to implement rural development measures and its development plans for agriculture do not stand the same, we have returned 10% of the funds to you in the final proposal. Probably counties that care about agriculture also benefit from some of their original budgets for the development of agriculture itself. And also, if we are already talking about your county, we can mention several million debts of the same county towards the state and state budget for part of the co-financing of credits paid by agricultural producers to the county and which the county had to transfer to the ministry, i.e. to the state budget and did not do so. We have not seen how transparently these funds have been spent through these vast programs that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34547	New replica and respected representative Valter Boljunčić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34548	Good afternoon. So I would refer to the part where you stated that the current way in which the land was given was up to five years. From our experiences in Istria, it was precisely that, after the competition was announced, it was waiting for the permits from the ministry and the DORH, and let's say it took a really long time and it should therefore be removed. Because, let's say Pula as a city doesn't have as much agriculture as Vodnjan and not even a half of 400 ha were about 300 people who got it and it's all gone, there was only one possible problem between the two people who offered so on the other hand you say that one of the law's intensities to put agricultural land into use as soon as possible. We see that out of 500 and 40 units of 70 and some of them don't have land and 70 didn't bring the program. But then it's just illogical what you're proposing right now because if, according to the old law, the agencies within 6 months to those who haven't brought the program could have brought the program itself yet to take the units of local self-government didn't do it for them 74, you now want the agency to be for them 500 and something that's contradictory. And the other thing is, I think what you're saying at the end now even about those funds, you've returned 10% to the county. We'll do it otherwise so I won't say it now... Regrets to be 25% because the OPG as such does not exist just because it has a country but in Istria, the funds plus the funds are about 140 million kuna in that period of 95. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far the days as a credit line and more or less all the wineries and olive production in Istria have gone due to it. I think the Agency's gonna be a tight throat, and so far it's proven that wherever we have a central agency, it's a narrow throat in the law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34549	Thank you very much. Replica reply, dear Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34550	Well, I'll be a very short-respected colleague. You yourself say that there were problems in the implementation of the whole procedure under the old law, and I will only correct you in the competitions carried out not again the Ministry gave consent but there was an important agreement of the DORH. But you're talking about the problems marked by the agency's work since 2009-2012. There was no need to make a programme available if we said that the programme available or that the definition of the new model available is a lease for 50 years. What to do again about the old law that we knew that according to the strategic provision of land policy, the agrarian policy we want to implement will no longer be available in this form. It is very clear once again that the units of local self-government and regional self-government will be included through the commission to decide on the most favourable programmes, the most favourable tenants of future agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34551	Thank you very much. A new replica and a respected representative of Giovanni Sponza. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34552	Mr. Minister, when you have already touched the example of the town of Rovinj, but then whoever gave it to you or pulled the information yourself, then we need to speak in a way that is clear and clear. First I said before I don't want to go back, I want to look ahead. Let's start with the first conclusion that it's not my replica in relation to you on a personal level because you're just a little over a year ahead of this resolution ministry. You should have told the truth that the town of Rovinj was among the first to bring to the Republic of Croatia a programme of agricultural land that had to be done in accordance with the law. Second, you had to say that at that time in this House, a number of times, the Law on Agricultural Land, which was a brake to the city of Rovinj and to all other units of local self-government in the implementation of the procedure of granting state agricultural land. The third thing was that the Resort Ministry was the biggest throat that has often lost documentation where we personally carried a few times a stunt of material for the competition and therefore please don't honor me for something that doesn't stand. No, no. I said I can go below the level of communication but I don't want to go below the level of communication. As far as the agency is concerned, you said the applications between the first and second readings were installed. The first finding of almost everyone who had an active participation in the debate was the absolute support of the lease yes, sales no. That's essential, and I pointed that out today. But we pointed to two more details. The first is to release the authority of the local self-government unit. and explained the economic... [[The President's intrusion: Unfortunately it's time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34553	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34554	Dear colleague Sponza, I don't think I've made myself clear. I actually praised all those efforts and steps that you as a unit of local self-government town of Rovinj made, from quick adoption of the programme of availability to circulation and all those things that followed. But on this example, I wanted to show in fact how slow the law was and in the number of tenders you have called and the rest you have failed to place but only 10% of the agricultural land in office in this way where you, as a representative of the city, will have two members in the commission after the decision of the commission itself or the selection of the most favourable tenants, are signed contracts and they are taken into possession. Further control is being carried out as we have said by law, although the lease is 50 years old, the Agency's annual reports are being controlled, and in this way we see whether agricultural land is being used in the most qualitative way much faster, much more transparent, much more efficient. Unfortunately, we know that when I said six months to five years. Somewhere there were examples that the whole procedure was being conducted for a long time or that it did not end at all as such whether after the sale of the lease or the like, but I can tell you by the experiences that after the analysis, we saw that some individuals of local self-government were doing very well, not because they were better organized as a unit of local self-government or better worked than your city, but because they were privileged in that story and because it was a narrow throat called the ministry did not look at the same standards to all units of local self-government. Here it is precisely known from the composition of the commission of law, the responsibility of the Agency for Agricultural Land. We don't do centralised, we just take responsibility for managing the most important resources in agriculture agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34555	Thank you, too. New Replica 4th and Honored Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34556	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, you said agriculture is a strategic branch, and we hear a lot of times how much agriculture is a strategic branch, and that's how it should really be to produce enough food. We've heard we have potentials for almost 25 million people. But I doubt, Mr. Minister, that the contribution to that strategic branch is to allow more than 30,000 cows to end up on a forced slaughter. Furthermore, you said that over the past 10 years it was intransparency to implement the programme. So you're questioning the state's attorney's work. So we know that the State's Attorney's office had to hit a power clause on how to express myself may be misspoken, but good at that section of expertise. Consensus, good consent. And third, let us speak in this House again as we did in the last debate during the first reading talk about many things that were said and so on. I'm going to talk again about livestock and I'm always talking about livestock because I think that cattle farming is a farm. And these cows have to fall on certain surfaces or maybe prepare food on those surfaces unless the drought takes everything, and then our farmers look for help from the ministry, and where there is no help. Of course here and the pasture communities I see are now no longer distracted. And then, of course, the dairy sector that I keep repeating is in immense difficulty, and in that part we warn about this regulation on regulation of relationships, the dairy package, whatever they call it, where they keep saying that the buyer should make the offer. This is a unique opportunity for us to arrange these relationships to put them in an equal position, not once again in a privileged position as a purchaser of milk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34557	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34558	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you have now told us in your address that we are scaring Croatian peasants with an economic programme. We don't scare, so we didn't write 60 points for the economic program, that's what you wrote in the first and second readings. You're scaring the Croatian peasants. And why are they afraid? They're afraid because these peaceful owners can't possibly prevent this method of calculating the score of anyone on the side to take on something they might want in some way to gain. It's the only fact. So you scare them, they're afraid of it, you turn them into scientists. So look at the criteria you make me understand. The expert prepares the caller, what's so important? Impact on the environment, who? What impact on the environment? Well, there's no transparency at all. So far, they've known by the criteria they don't have. By these criteria, we don't know what 60 points are. When are we gonna find out? That's what you said the government would do with a regulation. When? Where? In some dark corner. We don't know. And that is why they are rightly afraid. And that's why this story of state land may be run in this way. Maybe it's not the best, but we're warning by law. So why didn't you end up with a nice table that would become an integral part of the regulation that we know what the criterion is, and not like this, we throw what would be and what would be. And that's why you pay the Croatian peasants, not us in the Parliament. We're just trying to fix what's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34559	And a reply to the replica of the Honorable Minister Tihomir Yakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34560	Dark corners, intransparency is similar to something I don't want to comment on at all, but again, in 10 years by law or all those amendments to the laws that you've passed with most hands, you've had enough opportunities and enough opportunities to protect the interests of all those you so earnestly advocated. These same agricultural producers that we are talking about in the livestock sector that should have been given priority under the existing law based on the number of throats and the lack of agricultural land for their production were not priority. Why? Because they were party, relative and similar interests before the economic interests of those who were to be given. The economic programme is something that will allow really active farmers to continue agricultural production based on their production and points, values of what they have and what they plan with land. Not transparent in most cases, the party interests of people who sat in municipal and urban committees and who thus assigned agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34561	Thank you very much. 6. Replica and respected representative Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34562	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, it's really sad to listen to you. You're talking about programs that weren't made up by the sheriffs. You were the head of the municipality, you had your own programme of agricultural land. You haven't had a single hectare under that program at your disposal. In 14 months since you've been in power, you haven't brought in a single hectare of production. Why? As head of the municipality, you simply avoided your obligation that according to the programme of availability you have brought as a municipality you were not available at all. How embarrassing it is to say that all these years have been against peasants. How embarrassing of you to say it. Well, don't you know, and you don't know, because if you knew you'd be in Brussels today, you don't know what it was supposed to do to finish negotiations with the EU regarding agriculture, you don't know it, and you're not to blame. But that won't make you feel guilty, believe the ministers won't, because if you had a little knowledge of what you're saying then you'd say, that a lot of negotiations have been done and I'm supposed to be sitting in Brussels today, not walking in five places, jumping around, presenting some lame programme because today in Brussels it's talking and talking about it, so for the year '14-20, direct payments to farmers, it's about legislation on support for rural development, it's about regulation on the common integration of the agricultural market, it's about horizontal regulation. Do you even know what that means? Well, you're the only one here who knows how to sell political flossules to us, so that's a sad minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34563	Thank you very much. Replica reply, dear Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34564	Dear colleagues of Sumrak, the Law on Agricultural Land and this House of High is not a waste of jumping for me, it is an honor and pleasure to defend the most important law we have thrown out of this house in the last 15 months. Once again, there is a team of people who are prepared and who represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia in Brussels. Every month we are once or twice, depending on the number of Council meetings of Ministers up on working groups. And if you think we should do praises and I don't know what to those who did before us, we've told everything that's well done, okay, we're doing it programically. What is not good will we do reforms and changes. If you think my predecessor should be actively involved in all the story, that's your opinion. I think I have an extremely high-quality and good team that works, works very well in the interest of the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. There's one more thing I'd just like to ask, if you're already going out with the data, then you can either ask around or you can talk to the facts. In 2012, the Agricultural Land Agency put about 20 thousand hectares into operation under the existing law. That's somewhere around the year's average that you were 10 years ago. So the agency that hasn't worked in years has continued to operate under the existing law. You cannot tell the Croatian public and colleagues that no hectare has been put into office. In a year's time, we'll see how much land will be put into operation, and then we'll combine the data.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34565	New replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34566	Here's the thing, Mr. Minister, we were told to take responsibility for this law. It reminds me of the price of energy when Prime Minister Milanovic said he was taking responsibility, and then he cowardly transferred it to the so-called. an independent Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency which has made a decision to increase energy prices, while mentioning local sheriffs, etc. who fear their own people to raise those prices. But let's get back to this law. Here's a pure political plan 21 to the Kukurik coalition, among other things, he wrote one big fat letter and called for decentralisation. Now, in this case, we have one political option, a political party and a Kukuriku coalition openly opposes such solutions to this law. The Agency shall have a purpose for those 74 or 84 units of local self-government which have indeed done nothing, have neither brought in a programme of availability nor opened a tender. But you can't punish all the units of local self-government, and you yourself have found that the throat, and I know that from my own experience, was exactly the Ministry of Agriculture. It was conducted and now the contest was held even during Minister Cobankovic, you are now a year and a half minister, still no answer, come on a little less, there is still no answer to the competition. And I repeat, in the area of the City of Djakov many, many family economies because neither the Ministry nor the Government, when the Wartime Cookies went bankrupt, were able to dispose of the state agricultural land. It's been coming true for 12 years...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34567	Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34568	Final sentence. For 12 years, an incentive has been realized and this year they have the right to encourage, but you have to make instructions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34569	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, it won't do anything? Thank you. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34570	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, here are several times the question of your need for your participation in Brussels is now being raised. As regards the protection of Croatian interests when it comes to agriculture in Brussels it would still be good to hear your attitude and answer the question which should be the reason for concern here in Croatia. It is known that the common agricultural policy has not been adopted in the Multi-annual Financial Framework 2014-2020 and it is therefore agreed that the Ministers of Agriculture agree by 2015 and that 2014 will be used by means of funds used, something like the technical budget, using the 2013 funds. Therefore, in 2014 the members of the European Union will use as much funding according to the programmes they had in 2013. In 2013, the Republic of Croatia does not use any Croatian Mine Action Centre, not a single euro and it is agreed, this should be told the Croatian public, that we have the right to use only IPARD funds in 2013. IPARD's last bid is now open. And we don't have any new competitions scheduled until the end of the year. We will enter 2014 without any euro that we can transfer as from 2013 and what I will benefit from the European Union funds when it comes to the common agricultural policy next year. It's a question that requires an answer. And when it is said to you that it has been expected that you as the most responsible person, not a team of experts, should be Minister of Agriculture at a meeting of agriculture ministers. Intruder president: thank you./... This is a very important question, here I am finishing up, and I would ask you to answer to the Croatian public what will we use in 2014 when it comes to EU funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34571	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34572	The reform package of the common agricultural policy for the 14th is yet to be adopted and is being agreed on every month at the Council of Ministers, but also at numerous working meetings prior to that, seeking compromise solutions. Ireland, which currently holds the presidency and fellow ministers, is very agile and with a number of compromise solutions, we all hope that this package will be adopted as such. Even though there's one rule up there, nothing's agreed until it's settled. But all 27... is aware that they will have to make certain concessions in the attitudes to bring the whole package in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unless there is a possibility that what you said is a kind of technical budget or a transitional period, we already started the talks a few months ago that if this were to happen, the position of the Republic of Croatia that we have things that have been negotiated, or the funds that are planned for the Republic of Croatia upon entry. I am talking about 373m euros for direct payments in the first pillar and 333m euros for the rural assets of the second pillar. We can use 25% of that in the first year, make an allocation, something like that, and that's our starting point. And if the package isn't delivered, we can't stay on IPARD, on this 26 million average a year, but we're looking for that part of the funding in the transitional period. And believe that through the mission and through all those professional colleagues and people who are with me and my team in Brussels every month are going to be very hard at these points of view that we don't get into a situation that we can't withdraw funds from funds. It is much more important to say that we are actively working here on a series of committees to develop the most important strategic document, which is the Rural Development Programme. The programme, which will define the measures by which we will be able to withdraw funds from that second pillar of rural development, is of paramount importance that we prepare these documents and make them well to be in a position to withdraw those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34573	Thank you. We'll continue the club debate now. We still have 7 clubs and 14 individual debates and 2 more agenda points, 3 agenda points. So much so that we have a time-orientation. I now give my word to the respected representative, Damir Kajin, who speaks on behalf of his colleague, who speaks on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34574	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yes, between Brussels and the Parliament, I also think that when it comes to such a law that the minister should be here in this House. The assembly is a sacred place for Croatian democracy. This legislation determines I dare say the future of the village and I don't know where the place should be. And I'm glad he'll be in Istria on Sunday. And now I don't know how to just start when it comes to this law without any nostalgia for ex Yugoslavia when it's been done and collecting. Bravo Buriqu! Nationalization, expropriation. We had one not knowing the self-sufficiency of agriculture and even in one Istria, and even in one Poreč which was then the most developed tourist place in the Republic of Croatia as it is today. I couldn't help but wonder a few days ago when they told me so 100% of the wheat was produced for the needs of 100,000 tourists in Poreč and 20,000 residents. 100% even meat. It all meant working there. But where did the problem arise? Privatisation of the tourism sector. And exactly, one changed logic of what we can produce in Istria, the home began to import. There were prices, there was war, absolutely, strong kuna, etc. For six months, the workers worked in tourism, spent six months working in industry, or agriculture, and now somebody tell me it was bad. But first, I'll apologize to my friends to the Slavons. I wouldn't know if there wasn't some controversy, but I see they're slowing down legal solutions. And you see, I think that the vast majority of Istrians is absolutely for the principle that Sponza mentions about the lease. For the law that isn't at this point? First of all, it's not a mixer. However, I say that we must stop this mixing with the earth. Istria must not be El' Dorado mixing land. What's going on out there, I'm not gonna call it rude, I'm gonna call it literally banditism. I'm clearly talking about land owned by the state that we understand each other, not agriculture. It's clear there. We have to stop the sale of state agricultural land for the equivalent of one cigarette per square square. Or 1,000 square meters of agricultural, state-owned non-private land equal to 5 pikes of ronhill or 4 pikes of Marlboro. That's enough of that. It can't be gentlemen that 1 ha or 10,000 square feet goes for 10,000 kuna. It can't be! It can't be! It can't be that someone buys six ha of land for 128,000 kunas on a 10-year-old payout and then monthly over 10 years pays 1000 kuna. It can't be! For six ha, my family's been working for six generations. Today someone up to 6 ha comes up to 6 salaries and then raises that value to real estate. What you bought for $15,000 a million. If the square goes for 15 euros, not like some hills go for 30 euros or more. I don't mind a farmer getting land for 1 kuna, but I have everything against that country being resold. Not to have the state sell you something for 1 kuna, and then you resell it for 20, 30, 50, or I don't know how much without urbanizing that same country. I'm particularly against the so-called. I didn't know it existed. And then I realized what it was. They're the best programs where you don't have a haircut, where you don't have a disruptor, where you don't have a tractor, where you don't have a fairy, and I don't know what you can get to so much land. Let's get to a kindergarten of 200, 300 square meters. I understand that. That's the gym, etc., but six acres, gentlemen. And then there you can do 3 or 6 so-called. agro-punkt 200 square meters and then we get to those 1 million euros you bought for 15 thousand euros to plant roses, lawns or I know my mother's mattresses there. And indeed, this country is some mother, mother's sweetheart, sorry, and some others are stepmothers. And so I think that these 50-year leases must be something that needs to be satisfied. But if we're talking about a conversion review today, and then I guess we'd have to talk about these kind of purchases, for example. With Kempinski or some other such sites in the '90s were bought for 2 kuna and resold for 30 euros. That's the problem. And if it wasn't urbanized, that's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about state land. And for everyone, clearly, you should have good timing. And the best timings have individuals in power. In Bujština, the country was sold for a minimum of 4 euros, 30 kuna, up to about 17 euros. The average was about 12 euros somewhere. So one hectare of 300,000 kuna, now 10 thousand kuna, up to 750, 800 thousand kuna. Well, I've been roaring against that practice for this pay phone. So what farmer can give 800 thousand kuna for a hectare? Well, no one can do that. So there's something else about it. But it was a practice back then. Because it can never come back. But if you wait, I can see now, if you're friends with DORH, you can get it after a few years for 1 or 2 kunas to plant roses and maternal souls. Clearly, real business is someone else. To be clear, and that's what I'm going to say, Istria is absolutely not Slavonia. Yes, that's what Mr. Sponza was saying, I did sell the land if it was to round up a plot, to get rid of the access road, to build a building, but I think a 50-year lease is a good solution, and that's also a fair solution. And that's something I personally think should be supported. We need to help the peasant legalize his barn, not the cottage, but the barn. This must do local self-government by reducing the municipal fee that might be like in some municipalities where I don't know it seems to me in the Picno 0 Kuna. You don't always have to call everybody a state. It needs to be pulled off. Every barn, 10, 20 cows is a small company. Every organized oliver is a small company. Every basement is a small company. I know it's the hardest thing for milkmen. One barn, if you want to get to it, is 500 thousand kuna. Machines so they can work 500 thousand kunas. The treasure there is 500 thousand kuna. Credits I don't know how many of these people they have, they hire one family that's 3, 4 jobs so I'm talking about companies that work 24 hours a day times 365 days a year and where there's no one for either, so what, they can't even think about weekends at sea let alone cottages. Okay, they're getting incentives, okay. Now they're getting smaller, that's not good. And so Article 30, I agree with everyone here who says that people are afraid. They're rightly afraid that, say, the big tenants can throw the tenants out of long-term possessions. Personally, I believe that the previous owners, which is particularly important for one Čepic, for one Bolunski polje, etc., must always have the priority of those 51 so to say percent. Him, the former owner of the current pardonful owner or tenant, must be protected. And again in Istria, the country we began to give in possessions and I will say Antolovic somewhere in '93, '94, '95. years after the collapse of the HI group. Don't sell, give in. To preserve the plantations of vineyards. Some came back from Italy, not to mention names, they did wonders. Don't sell, I didn't get a bottle of wine from anyone, and I asked for it, and thank God no one remembered my name. But, okay. When did the individuals start? When it started to resell. Istria also has about 30 if I'm not mistaken, where, up to 40% of the state's agricultural land. On average in Croatia, maybe 7% or 8%. Why? Because of the war exodus in '47, or '54. My father always told me that you wouldn't accidentally buy it, that you wouldn't have thought of a square of spanish property, so you wouldn't have thought of it. But the great Istrians don't mind. They don't mind. And how did people leave, what they left behind, what was going on? Some other time. I know there's a lot of raw land in Istria, especially in Istria, why I said there's 30, 40% state country, a big part. Anyone who wants to work, pick up the phone. Clearly, if you want to work, you need to have a mechanism without what you're going to do? Well, there are those who deal with agro-fitness. Come on, and now it's some Istrian example of us, it's the same thing. But let the agro-fitness deal elsewhere. The law has another flaw, which is because there are plenty of places where the minister decides by discretion. That should, that might have changed. I guess it comes down to the smallest possible measure, but I believe that the amount of rent and these programs must not be highlighted, highlighted always. If there is someone, and there are such properties, we now know that on Vodnjan 300 parcels were obtained by individuals, let us now let it into possession. So let's say he didn't have a legal basis there in 90 or 80 years or he lost the solution he had or didn't get from the community's congregation then, but he planted some olives there, so let's not depose him, don't let people just do it. The Agency for Agricultural Land, that's right, and I'm afraid she wouldn't block the lease and then it means processing. The local self-government unit, which means she needs to be apostrophyd and involved in everything. The lease must once again be a priority as well as a strong local self-government. The price of rents I agree in Istria must not be higher than elsewhere in Croatia because the pomidor costs to produce it in Istria more than when it is produced in Slavonia, and in the market the Istrian one costs as much as the one from Slavonia, perhaps not but I suppose so. Although someone has started the process of renting the land, it means even selling it, so that we don't create problems here now, it means, by one law, that the law that is more favourable must be applied simply to the end. And lastly, I'm going to say once again, gentlemen of the people who own the Bolunic Field, I don't know the Chepic Field, etc. They're better off for themselves, they're afraid for their own land they're renting. The vast money of generations, not generations, of those 20 years of one generation have put loans into it. God forbid it doesn't happen to them, but I can't believe someone could do that to them, to depose them now, and to leave them without everything because who's just going to make it up to those people and I said every farm mostly where people make milk, they have cows is just a small, small company. So whoever owns it must have the advantage, he must be protected, he must not be deposited. No matter what anyone says, so I'll make more there, I don't care. He produces as much as he can, he's struggling, he's being processed, as he processes, no one can simply touch him, and the speculators from the ground must be driven away. And that's the criterion I'm handling and that's why I just support this solution from this bill. And finally, why don't you sell it? Again Istria, there is someone in Istria and 500, and 1000 and 1500 hectares, let the urbanization of one hectare with one hectare buy 1500 hectares per kuna or two kunas, etc. agricultural land. Or sell a hill and buy 3,000 acres. Well, that can't just go away, that's what these principles are about, which is why I'm thinking of supporting this bill. And I think the others at the Don Grubisic club will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34575	Thank you. One note, we discuss this law in the 2nd reading. So we're discussing the final bill. Our Rules of Procedure, Article 160, says: "In the course of the debate on the text of the final draft law, the proposal is discussed by sections, chapters or sections, articles and amendments tabled." The first reading certainly discusses not only the text of the law, but also the context, of the opportunities in which the law is adopted. In the second reading, no, but I think we'd be smarter off this article if we didn't stick to it anyway. And now we have nine replicas, nine replicas. Well, let's take it in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34576	I have to apologize. I just need five more minutes. I have to be in the government at half past 1:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34577	The first reported to the replica was Honorable Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34578	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Cain, it is clear from your debate that you have prepared well and used this for the purpose of pre-election campaign and dealing with Mr. Jakovčić, but it is well your right and I am not angry at it at all, but you have mentioned so many times the rose and the mother's soul that I simply could not gain such an impression, but okay. You said there were some good solutions in this law. And between the 1st and 2nd readings, it's true that some things have been accepted, but they're not crucial. When you mentioned us from Slavonia, therefore the key remarks remained. The centralisation of decisions on, therefore, the availability of this land and as much as Mr. Minister has tried to say that 556 units of local self-government in Croatia will no longer decide, but one agency at the state level cannot explain something that is inexplicable, nor justify something that is unwarranted. The problem remains that it is not for the ineffectiveness of availability, the earlier decision on the availability of this land only to the units of local self-government. One of the most important problems that they've been holding back was the Ministry of Agriculture that you've now taken over, you haven't worked in that ministry at the time, but they've been working on these people that you're now transferring to the agency, even though while they were inside the ministry, they couldn't solve it. How do you think he will solve this now, and especially if we keep an eye on Article 10 of the Law, Article 12 of the Law, Article 32 of the Law, and Article 38 of the Law, which still speaks of what the Agency must do other than make a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34579	Thank you very much. The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34580	No matter what anyone thinks, it's not my fight with anyone. Maybe it's a suggestion to plant your mother's babies with roses. Maybe it's a little suggestion, etc. I can accept everything that my colleague Sponza said or our colleague Sponza said. I can accept anything, but I can accept anything, but who buys the land? They buy those who deal with agrotourism, who don't have shovels, tractors, frisbees, fairies, just nothing. Or those little rose shovels. Mayors, mayors, members of the headship, buy actors, buy politicians, those who live in Zagreb and have cottages in Istria. Those who later resell the land, then work one or the other. It's not a peasant's problem. A peasant lives on it. He needs to be given. He needs to be sold. Well, even for one kuna to make it possible for him, but if that country has some public needs for him under quotes, I'll answer that to you later, but I have to be in the government at noon to take it, then he has to step in for as long as he's got it, for as long as he's got it. If one time he has to go through with it, then someone needs to give it to him for as much as he's got. If someone is selling it and if they make 200 times as much on it, then the difference between one and that 200 should be given to the one who made it possible for them to do so. That's what I've been talking about for so long because this practice is not promising believe me absolutely for nobody in Croatia or Istria or elsewhere in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34581	A respected counterpart, Josip Boris, also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34582	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Cain, I have listened very carefully. What you said today about Istria is a disaster. You said the next claim. Istria must not be an eldorado in mixing land. Do you realize what kind of message you are sending to the Croatian public about Istria, about the islanders and people living there, working and having private property that they can freely dispose of in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. That's terrible. What you've been saying here a few times already. And before that, you said that Croatia needs to be trained are those your words? It is. So why negatively so about those people who own the land. Well, you've been regretting some former country all along. What did you see in that former state? Nothing. In this country for 20 years, you've been a parliamentary representative, she didn't give you anything and she was better than this. Unbelievable. It's just that you send out a picture of people living in Istria that they're criminals, thieves who just mess with the ground and do nothing else. And tomorrow you want to lead those same people. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34583	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34584	Dear fellow MP. I also praise what was good in the former state and it was good in the former state. And not many people, many have suffered from that regime lived so badly in that former state and I believe that your family in that country has not lived any worse on Rab than you live today as a parliamentary representative and have not been representatives. My six generations live on land in Istria. I said I insulted an Istrian peasant, so that's not a shame to say. Although I do act as simple bread but I have offended the speculators and I will do anything to avoid the speculation of the country in Istria. There's nothing one who doesn't do agriculture in such a way to get to agricultural land. There's nothing. There's nothing for a kuna to come to. Is that gonna make me understand? That's another thing. But I'm not afraid of peasants. I've done everything for the peasant. I'm a peasant. That's the kind of family I've been having, and I'm not ashamed to admit it. Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34585	Comrade Cain, I kindly ask you to address other agents with you in accordance with the customs in this House regardless of what you are good. I kindly ask you to hold some level of debate in this assembly. We continue with the replicas, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34586	Dear colleague Cain, I hope you will arrive as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but give me this, you will not know what I want to tell you. But here you yourself have shown just the fear for the small family economies that this law claims are placed in an unfavourable position compared to the large ones. Especially the tenants so far, so you mentioned a series of fields, I'm not going in now if the roses are there, the mother's mattress, the wheat, the corn or the pomidor or tomatoes and there's not much difference in Istria from Slavonia in these difficulties of small family farms, but the fact is that one large majority of the family farms is almost 98% against this law and against such solutions in this law. And regardless of what this second reading is, the key things haven't changed. We of a great decentralisation fighter, you said here that it is good that the state has this way to dispose of agricultural land and be assured in the Croatian Parliament that no one is against the fact that the land is being leased because the sale was one of the worse solutions to the former laws, the lease long-term whether 50 years is the solution since then. But in any case, the key things don't change and the ministry doesn't take any responsibility here, but it takes over 60% of the economic programme through 20% of the rent price takes one big opportunity to manipulate through the agricultural agencies that could turn into a goat-nosing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34587	And this replica corresponds to Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34588	Small compared to large, it was so likely until the 1990s that it was even after the 1990s. I'm afraid they'll always be discriminated on in some way, I won't say suppressed but always these big ones will have a small advantage if we don't simply create the conditions to in some way be apostrophe in this society. We shouldn't be, but that's unfortunately always the way it is, so we'll try not to make it happen in the future. If he asks me, you ask, excuse me, Mr. Vinkovic, if you ask me what form of decentralisation I stand for, I stand for what Croatia looked like under the '74 Constitution when our municipalities were almost small confederate units and the republics were what the municipalities are today. Why do I stand for such a form because I know that during this period and Istria, your Slavonia was the fastest to develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34589	We continue with the replicas, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34590	Dear colleague Cain, I strongly support your thesis that the absolute priority must be given in relation to any idea of the sale of state agricultural land, among other things, or the solution to a major problem that I have talked about several times and I will talk about until it is resolved, which is the return of pension to the former land communities. It is part of a foundation of state agricultural land that was kidnapped in 1947 by thousands and thousands of Croatian peasants without the right to compensation. It's a unique case when a country that was in function in exploitation was kidnapped and never returned. For 20 years, the past authorities dragged the people who believed that the idea of justice and righteousness would finally come true. The President of the Republic of Dr. Ivo Josipovic supported the idea, the Prime Minister said on several occasions that the idea of restoring property to land communities is fair. I expect the Ministry of Justice, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, to contribute to this business and to pay for the return of property from all those land communities that can be reconstructed and set up again, and the complete documentation that exists in the Croatian State Archives that was transferred from the national committees that took over and took over the property in the 40s and 50s, ended up in the PICs, is now located in the breadth of the state agricultural land. It is not easy for these people to look at their successors as these countries fail in the shika, it becomes already a forest, as the subject of speculation of all the speculators who have actually known the reach of political ties in the last 10 years and who have already earned a lot of money in one good part of the country without talking about fictitious leases when taking the same land just so that incentives would be taken to spill huge money from the state budget into private pockets without ever being sown or planted any culture. In that sense, I strongly support your idea, the lease in no way, selling until the country returns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34591	Thank you. Have you heard from your colleague Cain for an answer? No, I don't. Then we continue with the replicas. It's Stjepan Milinkovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain, you could really just say a lot of things and in some ways a colleague once mentioned the term I could repeat it, break it down in this debate of yours. And I am deeply convinced that Mr. Chairman would surely warn me to stick to the subject. But I don't know, you're in some special mercy. You spoke affirmatively of this holy home, if I remember correctly, where laws are passed, and you violate it. You're breaking the law with the tolerance of the chairman, you... you're breaking the Health Protection Act. You advertise certain cigarettes, you speak very clearly of cigarettes. Well, I think it's inadmissible and we can't function in this holy house like you said. Secondly, you were talking about decentralisation and you really were one advocate of decentralisation, and now you're talking to each other. Local self-government units need to help legalize. I agree, but many are unable, many are engaged trying to include mine to help with this legalization. But of course those who need to legalize are in an even worse position, they just don't have them on their knees. And then in the end you're talking about mixing. So this approach of yours on the one hand, you're agreeing with the minister, on the other hand, you're going to the O.P.G., which is rather a certain way of mixing. You'd get a little bit on one side and on the other. Here's your access to this high house, the holy place you say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34593	In this holy house in this holy replica, Damir Cain will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34594	A little on one side, a little on the other. And it's not ugly either, and what you're gonna do. I'm not advertising anything, I'm just making a comparison. I'm comparing one square to one cigarette, a thousand squares equal to 4 or 5 pcs of cigarettes. And I mentioned that doesn't even matter. And as for legalization, you see, there are people up there who have stables of 200, 500 I don't know how many squares. Hardly will any of them, they'll all file for legalization. It can legalize if it doesn't come out in some way to meet the municipal contribution. There's no farmer that's not over-indebted. People were encouraged to work, to come in, God forbid they got into those PICs that fell apart, etc., they kind of came to the ground, they got a boost now less than yesterday, they got incentives or loans that they could buy machines, they got fruity and material, they came up with incentives and some money to get to the throat of cattle. So about what was in Europe was trying to paint here. I repeat once again that a farmer should be seen as a firm. One barn with 20-30 head of treasure equals a million and a half, 2 million kuna. These people may have had privileged interest of 2% or 3%, but banks are ruthless, they can't even follow it anymore. The peasant has no more credit for these loans today, he needs to simply meet, let alone burden him as it is said by legalizing one barn equal to 200 thousand kuna. Or if there are 500 squares or 700 squares, 500 or I don't know how many thousands of kunas. Who among them can simply follow? They need, I repeat, to meet. That's what you need to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34595	Thank you. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34596	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you just said this law is not a mixer. That's right, neither the mechanics nor the manipulators nor the resellers. Namely, I just got a call from a colleague from Ouzen and he said to mention that I was actually reselling over 200 to 300 acres of land. When we look at the Neretva valley, we will all agree that it is one huge potential, that the Neretva Valley is actually an area where mandarins are grown that are the only fruit we export and that income is about 33 million euros. Therefore, this agricultural land can never be a manipulative area, and unfortunately it has happened. And one more thing, the area of Ploč, Metkovic and Slivnog. There are actually people down there processing this land, but without any regulatory competition, without some legal act. And that's why those people who do it want to actually report to the competition and have one security thing for 50 years. Therefore, this is also a way of functioning the rule of law because on the one hand we have mutual benefit and the one benefiting from this land has one security because he now has a 50-year competition, and on the other hand, the state benefits from that in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34597	The replica matches Damir Cain, who in the meantime left the assembly and we're going to the next line. Dear Marija Vukbratovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34598	Well, I don't know if the replica makes any sense now that Mr. Cain's gone, but here's the public I just want to mention. I hope that Mr. Cain only cartooned, that he was not seriously sarcastic when in a slightly and offensive way we can talk about the production of the mother's soul because just the mother's mattress, the production of mother's mattress, as well as the generally healing, decorative and aromatic herbs can be quite profitable production, especially for small OPGs and especially for Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34599	A new replica and a respected Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34600	It's a little awkward now, of course, to have a replica, but still out of respect for 20 years of Damir being in IDS, in some ways we haven't reported for replicas yet, but this has crossed some boundaries. What was made clear today at the IDS's stand is that we're for hire, not for sale. If there were sales and mixing with the land, I believe him because in those days he was both at the top of the IDS, Istria and so in the Croatian Parliament so I believe his word about it. He probably knew that well. Secondly, this law is a fundamental law because it now discusses whether the state will move towards centralised or decentralisation. Until yesterday we listened to the story of how Croatia should be trained, decentralisation is important, and already yesterday we started to hear that Malta doesn't Istria lives at the expense of others because more money is coming back to Istria than it does even though we all know that much more money is leaving Istria thanks to the summer season, guests and this work. Furthermore, the performance that has been talking about Istria lately has been extremely negative as if it were thieves, mechanics, etc. Insults all people of Istria. There is one saying that the hardest thing to do is to be a prophet in your own village, and IDS is a party that has been given the trust of citizens for 20 years, not in some village but in the most developed region in Croatia. In this way the people of Istria recognized those characteristics of co-existence, work and what was needed for the progress of a border. And I'd like to mention a little to Damira if in some way it's going to come to this, now it's gone, that it might finally stop some of our neighboring countries or provinces, Sicily, etc. which is a beautiful country, constantly taking it as an example of thieving, etc. It's better to go back to history when Sicily was the center of the development of Europe's culture, Archimedes was there, but that's what we need...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34601	My colleague, thank you very much. The last replica and esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34602	Yes, this turns out to be a little bit of a useless debate, but Mr. Cain said at the beginning of his opening statement that it is very important that the minister is in the assembly today because a very important topic has been discussed, but Mr. Cain's departure on this strategic development branch of the Croatian economy has actually shown how much he cares about the Istrian farmer, to the Croatian farmer. There was only one thing that could be concluded from his presentation, that the law had not read at all. The third thing in his mind, it's clear to me that nothing is clear to me. He said it was for rent, and then he mentioned it was for sale, and the law doesn't mention the sales institute at all, and then he said that for decentralisation and finally in his closing statement, I support this bill. This bill exclusively goes in the direction of even greater centralised. I therefore expect that when this law is voted on because it is common for Mr Cain to always have very active participation in it in a very specific way, but that he hardly ever appears at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament when with his responsibility and voice he needs to clearly articulate his position. We'll see if he shows up, and then we'll be very familiar with the Istrian citizens. Because Mr. Caine's actions have exceeded every level of courtesy and measure of those who have given him 20 years of support for which he is here, thanks to whom he lives much better than most Croatian citizens live. One thing, and it's always called for credibility. He didn't hate her, he didn't hate her when he took a privileged pension. So much for his credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34603	Thank you very much. We're continuing to discuss clubs now. It's the SDSS club and the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34604	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As Mr. Vice President said on this subject can be discussed in the context, and can be discussed, and in fact it should only be discussed about the text of the proposed law. If there were an opportunity and if there was time to discuss the context, then there would be a discussion of total agriculture. They would probably, first of all, be pulling out some kind of math between the one invested in agriculture and the one gained in some general social sense. There would probably be a strange phenomenon that happened in agriculture, and that's what happened in general in society, and that's the detachment of farmers to those great latifundists, or modern farmers with fine jeeps that... Get in with the jeeps. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that most farmers who weren't in a situation to get two, three, or slightly hundreds of acres and live off family households and who barely make ends meet, so barely everything they get close to their existential directors. It would probably also be necessary to discuss the legalisation of agricultural facilities. It is much more important than discussing the legalisation of any tourist or other facilities that are now current in the media. And I think that a particular topic should be separated from the market, the functioning of the market, the functioning or absence of a stock exchange of agricultural products. It's also the context of this whole thing. The text is what is before us and we talk about this text in different ways. Obviously, we are talking about what region we come from, and it is obvious that we are talking about the text of this law in a way that, through the perspective and vision of the structure of the social from which we come from. This final bill of law compared to the second reading compared to the first reading of our seeing things has brought almost nothing new but some things that could now be listed as some kind of change and are mostly cosmetic. So we've been having a debate for almost an hour and a half, or a day and a half, as Mr. Minister said clearly out of desire and out of the need to say that the agricultural strategic branch is in this society, that the country is something that is a category of national goods and that should be put under certain control. The proposer continues to have a concept of this text which, since it is a second reading, will therefore finally read which is likely to be so and adopted has the concept of available agricultural land in the future in a conservative way, in a way to prevent further sales and to establish administrative control over the process, over the entire process of available agricultural land. Therefore, decision-making and future strategic planning are centralized in this section. We also had in our first reading our seeing a few key things from this law, I'll do it again. But I'm going to point out a few before to get a picture of the importance of this, I'm going to say some data, official data that out of the total size of the agricultural land of 890,000 hectares is owned by the Republic of Croatia while one million and 800 thousand are privately owned. Of the total agricultural areas in the Republic of Croatia, more than 50% are grasslands, most pastures about 40% and the rest are meadows. So that's what it says about quality, so it's about the value of such a large land fund. The share of farmers in the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia is among the largest in Europe because agriculture employs as much as 14.2% of the workforce, which is a very important data. And lastly, the area in which most of the agricultural land of the Republic of Croatia is located account for as much as 43% of the total area of special state care. It is somewhere around 180 local units, i.e. local self-government units that have PPDS status. It is important for us at the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party to highlight and say our view of three key things. The first thing is the property regime of land. It is clear, too, that the lease for 50 years is the only possible, only good solution, useful solution in relation to the availability of this national good. However, we think that this solution in the good part was brought to a post-festum. So this thing should've been arranged a long time ago in that way. The highest quality land with the highest rating classes has almost already been sold, someone has even been resold. The large numbers of unused agricultural land that we are now talking about and which we are referring to are mostly more statistical categories than some type of quality because I said about what the quality structure of agricultural land is. Therefore, one key question is raised here if we all agreed to go future into the concept of long-term lease, if 50 years are acceptable, the matter of agreement, but the question is whether in this way we have brought into an unequal position of the category of people who now, according to this new concept, should come into possession in relation to the category of people who, according to the previous solution, have become owners of one and resold, mixed the Croatian country. Whether we gave them equal chances, and these are not to blame. Most of the stalemate was created by a small part in local self-government and mostly due to central government's trombones, ministries to resolve land availability programmes in the previous period. So one question arises: is this concept and constitutionally sustainable? Have we placed all categories of population in the same equal position given the possibility of achieving a specific ownership category? It's a matter of discussion and I think we should talk about it in the first reading, now it's too late for that story. The other thing that is very important to us, which is the management of the whole process, is about transparency. We can say and ask a question of transparency without any last intention to suspect that something is being done conceptually because of non-transparentity. The proposer has placed the whole process under the responsibility of the Agricultural Land Agency. Maybe it's the logic of a concept like this, and it's probably going to be supported, but one question is, practically, one pragmatic experienced question is, is the agency capacitated to do all these jobs? We have an article in 57 where all the colors of some jurisdiction are numbered. Return of agricultural land, laboratory analysis of soil, geodetic elaborates and even the transport of agricultural land, and most important economic programmes, evaluation of economic programmes as a assumption of further realization of this legal solution. So the question is, how many teams of people have to do this kind of work on the ground? Is that how we created some kind of mini ministry and a parallel system? I have the impression that we're getting closer and closer this way that we've created an institution whose capacities will not be able to handle what life on the ground will bring. It's a good thing the agency no longer has the right to purchase land, because I think it would be a point in the full centralisation of the transport of agricultural land. So we have on one hand the need for decentralisation and as some kind of EU liquid, and here we have the concept of one 100 per cent centralisation and control of the entire system. The third thing that is most important to us, which is an advantage in the competition. We were talking and for us it's a key thing that the advantage in the competition must have the OPGs. They should be strengthened before they enter the EU, large companies have already taken care of their Land Fund during privatisation, areas of special state care are areas where agriculture, or the concept of small family economies, is the only modus vivendi for these people, the only way to survive in areas of special state care. We now have an attempt in Article 30 to include our suggestions in Article 30, but we think they are numbered first, so it is said that the OPGs are among other things both legal and physical. Therefore, the nomotechnical formulation of this Article 30 equates all. So we wanted to single out the OPG as an advantage but this is the nomotechnical solution of Article 30 that absolutely equals all the participants in the competition, does not favor the OPG which was not our goal and automatically opens up the possibility that then through the economic programme with its 60-point evaluation it gives priority to large companies. For the reasons that my colleagues said, I wouldn't repeat it, so who's more capable of making a better, more expensive economic programme on this principle with 60 points will have an advantage. Therefore, it is our proposal that decided OPGs be granted as an advantage, and then all others can be listed in Article 30. It is a good solution that an economic programme that we think is also a technological offer, as well as a formal-legal obligation of that land user to the state is a very important thing. With the elements to be developed, the elements of the economic programme should be known and clearly 60 points are overly stressed by the importance of this criterion for the overall assessment of bids. It is good that there is a possibility of termination of the contract due to a lack of respect for the economic programme because experience suggests that so far there has been a lot of abuse of such positions on the ground. So we promised by the economic program that we would do something, when we came to the country we use the country in a completely different way. It's a good control mechanism. And finally and then we talked and now we repeat we think that because of the credibility of this whole concept it is very important to make an audit and the economic programme so far, it means the correctness of the implementation of the economic programmes in the previous period as well as the revision of concession fees. Concession fees should be aligned with market elements. Therefore, they can be revised as market relations move. A concession fee of 500 kuna cannot be paid, and an ordinary farmer pays 1500 kuna per hectare. And then the state gives you 2,000 kuna incentives, you pay a concession fee for 500 kuna and God makes you happy, pure mathematics. And you don't even have the obligation to report the reference amount you made per hectare paid by the state for your 2,000 kuna. So, by some logic, something is wrong and we think because concession fees in some units of local self-government are the only and main source of income, that we have no right, we have no right with this kind of approach to cut down units of local self-government with significant original incomes. I repeat, if this fee were to be marketable many budgets would be fuller with money, a lot of resources in local self-government units would be for some social activities, and for sport, for culture and for everything else. And in the end, too, we think that too much space in the legal text is left for sublegal acts which creates one, leaves one questionnaire on how certain concrete solutions that should be a little more decided in the law will be resolved to be visible. Therefore, it remains to be resolved by sublegal acts given by the minister or his professional service. This is something that should be avoided, otherwise legal practice avoids such a situation that key things are dealt with by sublaws. It's much more transparent to be done with a fundamental act of law. We're sorry that, here's another reading that's the final thing, I repeat again probably this concept of land availability will be adopted, but I'm sorry that these things that we've detected as key things, some of them are particularly important to us, they're not more elaborated in this legal text, which in any case narrows us down a little bit when we talk about accepting this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34605	Thank you, too. We move on to replicas, which are exactly 5. The first person to answer the line was Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34606	Thank you. Dear colleague Horvat, I agree with a lot of things in your debate. In particular, when you mentioned article 30, it is precisely to be singled out, is this how it is now formulated no one has the right advantage or has everyone, and then there was no point in putting it, but the desire was. That's what we suggested to be special, so the OPG as one who has the right of advantage. You are now listed, the right advantages are the holders of the OPG, cooperatives, agricultural producers and other natural or legal persons, so everyone has advantages. Secondly, the key question has been touched, which is whether for Croatia today agriculture is or is not a strategic branch of the economy? What is the relationship of this government to agriculture? We believe that you have written off agriculture, I think of the Ministry and Government as a strategic branch of the Croatian economy. Because how else do you explain the fact that by 2 years in the Republic of Croatia's budget, the state budget has reduced the funding for agriculture is 2.5 billion kuna and what it is to give importance to a strategic branch of the economy in the Republic of Croatia when you take away its funds, and you don't even provide it with funds from EU funds. And once again, Articles 56 and 57 of the Agency as a public institution, so much obligation has been made to that agency that it will simply not be able to implement all these obligations, there is no way in particular if it is taken into account what is left of it other than that article, the obligation set out in Articles 10, 12, 32 and 38.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34607	To the reply of the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34608	Thank you. So, my colleague Buric, I said what I thought about this article 30. I think that's the key thing, and I respect the Ministry's intention to accept in that part the suggestions that we asked almost all of us in the first reading, which is to put the OPGs first in line. I think this was supposed to be a little bit different. So, if the OPGs were under line, under these other ones, under these third ones, and then there would be no debate about 60 points of the economic programme. We do it on the other hand, given that it is not, but it is out of caution that we think that the economic programme will be favored by a decision-making element with its 60 points. And that this formulation put the OPGs in the same plane, and cooperatives, and legal and physical persons, and in the past, in the last debate, we spent all day on the fact that we needed to prefer the OPGs. For us, this is a key thing, because among other things special, areas of special state care are areas where people are the only existence they have right now through the organization of the OPG, the character of warfare, the character of livestock farming, the character of vegetables, etc. etc. Privatisation is over, systems big don't exist, people don't have a place to work but to roll up their sleeves and to form an OPG on their small estate and live on it. So we prefer this thing for existential reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34609	The second line is Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34610	Here I am closely following this debate in the 2nd reading and truly unrelated now to the Rules of Procedure of fellow Members of Parliament more debated outside the context, we are not still putting up with the amendments as the Vice-President of the Assembly has said these solutions but rather key, key elements and key issues from the 1st reading of this proposal in the 2nd reading have not been solved. It is therefore a complete centralisation of the complete, complete, complete centralisation of the re-existence of Plan 21, as MP Holly said yesterday, who was contracting with citizens and with the voters of the Kukuriku coalition which is here and this Agricultural Land Act has been deceived. I don't know if she said that, as Minister Zmajlovic said, she spoke out of some bad intentions to harm but this is obviously a fact. And the other thing is that the agency that's going to be conducting is turning into one of Michael Corleone's agencies. Dad Vito set foot after six shots were fired while he was picking up pomiladores in the garden and as his grandson visited him and Michael took over the whole situation. There is no takeover of responsibility and many family economies as my colleague Chesek said, last time it will turn out to be the impression of dudes or dudes and their systems will be determined by the Black Rock and Cinober and that is the definition of this law. And if that law is good, then why don't the ones whose law it's intended for, and these are family economies. It's a key question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34611	To the reply of the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34612	I'm not going to say it the way you said it, so I'm not going to name it any names, but I'm going to say what I said. I've been challenging certain suspicions from caution that agencies that haven't even teamed up on the ground will be able to deal with such a colorful diapoazone of tasks that this law has given them. If I was wrong, I'd let it be a positive mistake, and I wish I'd made a mistake. But knowing the current state of affairs, I don't think this kind of agency work is going to be effective, effective in this field thing. And when it comes to this talk, it was also necessary to hear a little more about examples of colleagues who have a certain experience in the agricultural land distribution programme, so specifically hear people, mayors, mayors who have already been through a certain phase, who have gone through the filters of state institutions in terms of objecting to their decisions, so these objections have been rejected, rejected or the contracts are confirmed, the thing works. So there may have been an opportunity for them to say something about their experiences and to incorporate those experiences into this legal text and to complete the function of the agency. I'm afraid the agency is not one in a series of agencies that we've burdened, administered agricultural production so I don't count them now. This isn't one agency. We've got all the agencies, and we're willing to deal with things agencyly. I'm afraid it doesn't and in that sense I've expressed my doubts about such a legal solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34613	Three of my colleagues gave up the replica I thank them for. So we continue to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected representative, Petar Baranovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34614	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished co-workers and co-workers of the minister, the minister he is not currently having. The HNS Club will support this law for the following reasons. Already in the first debate in the first reading, we made it clear what we consider fundamental and good in this law. The strategic definition of this law is to bring to the greatest extent unused agricultural land to the point. It is also done in a way that is not related to the sale and alienation from the state and national portfolio, and we see the greatest advantage of this law. So far, the practice allowed the country to be sold and not to enter into certain individual examples of the fact is that in some situations it was sold below any reasonable price and that it was in large part not solely an ambition to bring agricultural production but to make a profit on the same. This law provides for renting the country for 50 years. For 50 years, even when it comes to permanent plantations, it's quite enough time, a deadline that actually covers two generations of farmers in one family and allows farmers to reach the necessary agricultural area through this procedure in a way that they don't have to buy land. If we go back a little out of context to some general debate on the situation in Croatian agriculture then we will notice the next thing. And this is that the vast majority of today's OPG and agricultural producers in Croatia are not in a situation and there is no means available for the purchase of agricultural land to come into a situation where land is bought by mortgages, so that very likely the properties and land owned by farmers would be subject to mortgages and that these conditions in which Croatian agriculture is so far operating during the year, two, three or five large parts of agricultural producers and OPGs would come into the situation that banks that are not to forget to mention in the majority apartment owned by the activation of mortgages come into possession of land. The HNS's position is that we have sold out a lot of things that shouldn't have been the subject of sales and alienation from the national portfolio so far, and to leave these remains of family silver in the national portfolio. There have been discussions about things this morning, and among other things, it has been transferred that this law is appropriate, and this law favors large ones, that this law discredits small ones. However, there is one truth to be considered. The big ones don't come from this law, they came from a long time ago under certain mentoring, under certain legal frameworks that someone voted in this House, by implementing certain policies in agrarian that led us to the present state. It is an amazing fact that the Republic of Croatia is one of the great importers of food. The fact that we are energy importers could still be understood, although there is no excuse, but that we are large importers of food and that we import almost everything from Mediterranean cultures to pig meat, some kinds of grains, potatoes, onions, fruits, vegetables, that's amazing. This information is a testimony to all the failures and failures we've made as a country in the past 15 years, if we have the time of war fully justified as an excuse not to do certain things. As Mr. Minister has said, it is the ministry's duty that what has been done positively in recent years continues, but it is also the duty of the ministry and this government to implement but this time really not as a steam but as a process of reforming the agricultural system. With this law and without this law, ladies and gentlemen, things don't work out. The question is, what does this country want and what does this country need? whether we need a farm that will rely on a Croatian economy that will be a desirable economic branch and for future generations of young people who have origin in agricultural families or we want a farm that will forever wait and rely on incentives, interventions and financial support from the Treasury. The Republic of Croatia is almost today in the structure of its economy that there is no economic branch that is not encouraged. All modes of transport from rail, air, road are directly or indirectly bloated from the state register. We need a pension insurance system of 35 billion a year, 19 billion and 16 billion, based on employee pay, 19, ok. 16 is a difference. Yes, 16 is approximately the value of the carlovac-Dulgopolje highway in one year of business of the Republic of Croatia. Every year, one highway only in the pension insurance system needs to be secured. We need to provide incentives for agriculture, we need to provide incentives for the ship's lineage, we need to provide incentives for the railroad. Where will we ladies and gentlemen ever provide incentives and encourage our own destruction? The issue of agriculture in Croatia is not only a question of this law. This is a question of ensuring correct payment and the right positions of agricultural producers in relation to those buying their product, making the organisation of agricultural producers in the Republic of Croatia so that they are masters of value added, at least in part of what they pick up in their fields or what they produce in their stables, which has not been done so far. Unlike European countries in which, for example, dairy farmers in Poland are the owners of sirens. Our milkmen are not even owners of their own destiny because what has not been done has not been done. This law, this second text, which is not very often in politics, bears witness to the well-willed and correctness of the proposing who has observed certain remarks from the first reading. I don't agree with that, and we disagree that he eliminates every opportunity for the OPGs to compete and get a land lease for a very simple reason. When we talk about it, my colleague Djakic, please, when we talk about it, we need to look at another dimension, which is the way small agricultural producers operate, their opportunities and ways of accessing the business of large agricultural producers. So it is clear that the large agricultural producer has such a concept of work and such an approach that small parcels of land as leopard skin are absolutely not interested. Do you think someone who organizes production in a complex that has hundreds or thousands of acres to be interested in a plot that's 50 or 45 away in a village that has three acres, doesn't care and won't take it? Let's not lie to ourselves, gentlemen. Another problem is the large agricultural producers, purchasers and distributors of agricultural products, and the problem is that until now, the practice of paying farmers from harvest to harvest, what people gave grain and instead of getting it to get the money after 30 or 60 or 90 days, they were given it often after 10 months and through a commodity compensation, of course at a price that fits big because they were big and they were allowed to become it, because they were given a chance to operate according to their rules. And that's true. In conclusion, what we expect from the rest of the ministry is that it doesn't fit on this bill. Also, after adopting this law and putting this law into practice without any complex, it notes everything that practice will show as problematic, so this law will probably be as certain as any law in the Republic of Croatia will have its novels and will have its own corrections. But what is contitiated by the son of qua non survival of Croatian peasants is the regulation of the market, their right to position and another process that has not happened in the last 10, 12 years 15 for reasons unknown to me, and that is a commission. We had time to spend it. Even as a layman, a complete layman before entering professional politics as a person who was interested in what was going on with fellow farmers, I tried to learn what it was, so I also had some people who were professors, former lecturers in agronomy, so they explained to me what it was, how necessary and necessary it was. But from that to this day, not as old as I am, it's been years, and in the matter of cohesion, nothing has happened. I don't want to and will never be human or have a mandate from my party to set myself up so that I deny the efforts that certain ministers have made in some things, to deny some of the positive things that have been done, but sometimes the path to hell is filled with good intentions. Today we have thousands and thousands of agricultural machines that have been bought past each duck and reson, we haven't made machine rings, we've brought people to put money in agricultural machinery that they don't use optimally. On the other hand, we have OPGs that, for some strange reasons, have not entered into the system of marketable, capital investment, and they do not have enough tractors and good enough machines, so they may be actually disabled under this law. A complete debate about this law has created passion for one reason only, everything is fleeting, only interest is eternal. Everyone, big and small, has every right to be interested. It is up to us to realistically look at matters of national interest, and the national interest is to transform Croatian agriculture in a way that will give everyone a chance to become competitive, to make it truly profitable, progressive and to be one of the real ones, someone mentioned in the discussions these days, to be one of the real and real supporters of the Croatian economy and the Croatian nation and the Republic of Croatia. Force further disabled agriculture in which we will only declare ourselves to the interests of Croatian farmers, and we will essentially keep turning our head as it turned for years, from what these same farmers are doing, who have to pay at INA's gas station immediately, who have to pay for fertilisers within a short period of time or immediately, who have to buy for their family everything they need right away, who have to pay tuition for their child immediately or with some reasonable beginning. And at the same time for years, the practice of spinning their money was tolerated, that, with the twisting of their funds that they had earned and handed over to ransom, they were creating great ones, and from that their heads were turning, and all of that was very quiet. That's what I'm sure, in this way and in this assembly never spoke of. So gentlemen, let's start dealing with the truth, and these other stories that are convenient now 60 days before we go out on the ballot boxes we put aside. We have been paid too much compared to the average citizen of the Republic of Croatia to deal with unseriousness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34615	Now we move on to replicas that are exactly eight. The first one was answered by the respected Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34616	Thank you very much. Comrade Baranovic, here you have said in your debate that the country has been sold so far, that it has been sold and that most of the OPG actually has no money to buy new hectares of the state and that the lease is the best solution. If someone asked me what was better for me, and I'm going back to this everyday real life of ours, whether to live as a tenant for 50 years, or if I had the opportunity to buy an apartment and live in it and get some property and value, I believe that I and you would agree that this other option is much better. But I'm saying, we're parliamentary representatives and we're deciding the fates of others. We always know best what's good for them. I claim that the sales space should have left as a possibility because history shows the fact that the bank can be sold, that it can sell something else owned by the state, but here's land not because we said no land, forest land, water etc. So what happened to that land so far, where it is, in what areas. You said and mentioned some leopard skin, etc., it's scattered, scattered, etc. So why are we afraid of rich peasants or the possibility of him becoming rich in what the state will give him a resource to become rich at? We're constantly underestimating him and we don't think he deserves it, and the premise we're all starting with is that they're all either reselling or living on sale or out of encouragement. It's completely wrong. We're a country of agriculture and tourism. I respect every job and industry, too, but we have to clearly define it and say what we want, whether we're going to deal with it as seriously as other European countries, or really look at this farmer as some sort of shopkeeper, buyer and resellor, criminal or what I know isn't said to him today. I think it's an initial position that needs to be defined. And we're not going to sell this story, but we're going to lease it, I say, in every man's private life, it works completely different. You can't get a loan for more than 20 years, but you can acquire certain property and each of us would rather have your own apartment than be a tenant for 50 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34617	The replica corresponds to the respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34618	The answer to the replica will be very brief in order to save time. I will pull the parallel, I think it can be withdrawn between maritime goods, coastal lines and agricultural land as general goods in the Republic of Croatia. I am very interested in my colleague, Boric, in order to be determined according to the sale of maritime goods and coastal lines, as determined by the sale of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34619	Second replica, respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34620	Here's a esteemed colleague of Baranovic, since you spoke on behalf of the club but one large majority of your debate was on your personal behalf and you admitted that you are a layman for this area, I am a layman for fishing and I would not, although I know very well the problems associated with that branch which is also one of the strategic branches of the Republic of Croatia's economy. But I wouldn't exactly be like a layman to deal with those problems. You said this law allows the O.P.G.s an equal match. This law is something like me racing Usain Bolt. I have a chance to compete with him. My only chance to beat him is that he's 50 feet away from a brain attack or a heart attack, so I can probably get him to the finish line and no one else is competing but just the two of us. If that's after 50 meters, he'll also have a stroke to fly through the target. On the other hand, I'm surprised to you as one of the mayors that you are first and foremost in favour of one complete centralization because this is a centralization that neither the former Yugoslavia knew. Full centralization. On the other hand, I expected you as one of the coalition's members to simply make a decision within that Kukuriku coalition by consensus. You have a problem. One party to the coalition openly opposes and for a reason such a bad law. And don't really because they're not competing with Usain Bolt, they're competing with much bigger players than Bolt himself, and they're competing with this extremely bad government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34621	The replica matches Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It saddens me very much that you do not recognize the verbic times of your esteemed colleague Vinkovic, because I said that I used to be a layman on this subject and now I'm somewhat less of a layman. Allow and don't win because I didn't throw it to you. Second of all, the question is whether Usain Bolt will be on track for every pitch, so maybe you'd have a chance to win. And finally, my colleague Vinkovic, when it comes to centralization, decentralisation. You know, in some situations and we've been put in this situation, that's the situation we found. You have to conduct crisis management because things aren't going well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34623	The third replica of the twilight Đurjica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Baranovic, I have listened very closely to you and it is really hard to find the truth in your presentation. You're a little too really pandering at the agricultural producers that work on the ground. You've given them a little too much of the support they've received. You didn't look back at the situation after the Homeland War, and if it hadn't been for this support to my colleague Baranovic, they wouldn't have been planted, say, the new 10 ha vineyards. We see that the day before yesterday the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has just got and a new sign means a sign for our wines in Croatia when we enter the EU which will be possible in a different way. And then there wouldn't be a new 5,000 ha of new olive groves, so there wouldn't be 12 new ULO coolers of a total of 40,000 tonnes. And why all this? There would be no support for the ransom, therefore the placement and market why it is all important for the common market. Well, you know, you have to respect that work on earth, you have to respect it very much. It needs to be evaluated and valorized. I'm here to say what I'm about to say might not really be popular saying that the fisherman has bread with 7 crusts. Well, my mom would agree more if one farmer on earth had that 7-core bread. My mom says it herself, respecting and respecting fishing as well as really the branch of our economy. But our fishermen throw a net into the sea and take out the fish. It's that they have investments, but they keep that fish. Very often we hear a riot when it's banned, so fishing some kinds of fish. And you see these peasants up there Those who stand do not have the opportunity to rebel anymore, do not have the opportunity to buy. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34625	Comrade twilight, thank you very much. Time's up. Did you answer the question? Here you go, then. Next replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34626	Dear colleague, you said an almost incredible sentence if I understood correctly. How long will we pay for the incentives to pay for our own destruction? Now I'll remind you of something or I'll show you if you didn't know. One of the most important areas of action of the EU institutions and you are as much in favour as we are in favour of joining the EU, one of the most important areas of action of the EU institutions is the common agricultural policy, the common consumer protection policy and public health and the common fisheries policy. The objectives of the EU's common agricultural policy, which takes up and most of the EU budget, are to achieve competitive and sustainable agricultural production, and the key instruments used by the EU to achieve these objectives are direct incentives unrelated to production, to meet the conditions they prescribe and rural development measures. Direct incentives are the first instrument used by all EU member states to enable competitive and sustainable agricultural production and you say it is to pay incentives to pay for its own failure. So you don't understand at all what Croatia is going into, what an institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34627	Now a respected Petar Baranovic has come to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34628	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First something I didn't say in my mouth, which is a transfer because of paid support for boredom. Supports paid off what I apostropheed as a problem is how long in this way we from the state budget will be able to pay for the support and whether we will put people in a position to one day deny what they were counting on and on what they relyed on in their business. We're already a year late. What happens if we continue to run the Croatian economy in a year and a half, two, three, five or six? Are we going to bring tens of thousands of people and families to ruin? Or are we going to implement the right measures to bring the agro-system into a situation to be as fellow Buric said competitive, what is the European common agricultural policy and fisheries policy also more difficult? Of course we will allow them to receive all those support in the same cash register as the European peasants. But of course, we must have the ambition of an agro-system that will be sustainable and that will be the basis of the Croatian economy and this state, and not that we have a situation like now that we are late to support that people in despair have nothing else to do but start tractors and go to intersections. Nor do they need it, nor is it good for them; it is humiliating for farmers and peasants, nor is it good for this land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34629	We're moving on with the replicas. Dear Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34630	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Your exposure to your colleague Baranovic was a lot of contradiction. First you talked against the big ones, and then you talked about the law in favor of the big ones and the small ones. But what's most tragic is what my colleague Buric said already, which is that you said the incentives were a disaster. Well, it's a tragedy of all tragedies. Where Croatian farmers would be today if the support had not been as they have been in the past few years. You know well that you have something that is limited, how many cane you have, how many plants you have, how many milk cows you have, etc., when you enter the EU you can no longer increase it. So look at the statistics on the situation in Croatia 8 years ago, how many we had and what number we came to the moment of entry into the EU, and then you can't say it, and you can't say it to yourself, but you can't say it to Croatian peasants. You can't say that you're for the O.P.G., and the O.P.G. Without incentives and help from the state budget, so these people can't do anything. And now these people are sending us a letter as parliamentary representatives not to agree with such a law on agricultural land, and we ignore it and we assure them that it is good, not us, but you who will vote for this law, at the same time we tell them that they do not need incentives. I repeat, agriculture is an economic branch, and if we talk about the real sector, that incentives and pre-accession funds have served them to restructure and that European funds and what they will get from the domestic budget will serve them for competitiveness the same story applies to Croatian farmers. Because if the one in the EU gets strong incentives this one in Croatia doesn't get anything on the common market tomorrow they won't do anything. But with a debate like this where we do not recognise the strength of the arguments as you did not want to admit that you were wrong in the statistical change of the organisation of the Republic of Croatia where you damaged exactly the most of those agricultural areas so you do not wish to admit now that you are making a cardinal mistake. Share from one place, sell out and host Croatian agricultural land and Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34631	The replica matches Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34632	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As usual in his style fellow Shuker, but of course it's his right. I was talking about incentives in the context of all incentives and situations that are in the Republic of Croatia. From incentives for shipbuilding to incentives in transport, to incentives... I'm talking about her now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Shuker, please. In 10 seconds, you interrupted me four times. ... So I spoke in the context of the overall incentives and financial opportunities that the Republic of Croatia has objectively, and this relates to the stability of this country. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm very sorry that you as former finance minister didn't understand what I was going to say. As for future incentives for peasants, I have apostrophe that all that is well done, and that fits what you said happened, indeed there have been a number of olive trees, a number of vines, a number of permanent pestilences, but not enough. And that's what needs to be continued. And never as a representative, and also later as a man, if I am not a representative, I will not be an opponent, or I will be a supporter of the fact that the Croatian peasant, fisherman, economist and citizen has all the rights of a completely linear and identical EU citizen. So, to talk about us arguing that our people have less rights and less support than European peasants tomorrow at a market game, that's a mere phrase, I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34633	We're moving on with the replicas. Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34634	Dear Mr. President, colleague Baranovic has some good things to do with this bill. Let's just say I'm for hire but combined with opportunity and sales. What Leopard's skin solves isn't bad enough for us to be correct. But what I'm trying to tell you is even selling isn't the point. You know what, in a few years it will come from the EU or what I know from the world and buy all of Croatia. You know why? Because our abandoned agricultural miles are unprocessed and unpolluted, and in the Netherlands they have been under pesticides for 30, 50 years and all of Croatia will be bought. And it's not a taste of trouble. The problem is that your government, I don't mean personally to the minister of our current agriculture or you, but our government, this one doesn't understand anything about agriculture, doesn't understand the philosophy of progress, doesn't understand the philosophy of the survival of Croatia because it abolished the incentives of 2 billion kuna agriculture. If she was unsatisfactory with the current mode of encouragement, they should have been modified in the best possible way this government believes they should be. And they had to be doubled, because the French peasants got their incentives 50 years ago and they planted them there, they made salad canisters, they can sell a kilo of salad for 1 euro, and ours will cost, our salad will cost our farmer 10 euros. And it's not at all a question that our peasants are now as competitive as the one in France right now. We need to give more to achieve what, Partisan politics has been destroying agriculture for 50 years. Don't tell me again you're going back to partisans, communist, socialist, I don't know what you'd use, what word to understand me. It went to the destruction of agriculture, we would have to give a lot, a lot more than they gave 30, 40 and 50 years ago in Europe for agriculture to come to a positive zero. It's your philosophy, you didn't understand the need for a moment. Agriculture is, and I'm going to end this, the only cycle with tourism that we can fix in a year. And if you'd given 2 billion more to 2 billion organizations and given 4 billion to agriculture, and in a way that's best, then that would be the real thing in the country and not have 400,000 unemployed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34635	And this replica corresponds to Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34636	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Marasovic, I am pleased that someone agreed with that basic me in assessing the basic intensity of this law, which is that national wealth is not sold out and not sold out, put on hold for 50 years, which is for two generations in one family to rent farmers. As far as your partisans are concerned, I don't mind, I'm a knight of the Partisan House, but I don't mind that you, if you'll excuse me, so I'm very fond of you. And as for what we all want for Croatian agriculture, you know, I will be the happiest when I enter the trade chain and see in the vegetable and fruit department exclusively Croatian products, except of course bananas that we can't and pineapples that we can't produce. I'm going to be really happy, and I'm extremely hurt by my soul the other day when I went to buy a salad and bought a salad that was written by Italy on the declaration. Now that's the problem and that, and that's exactly what a colleague is for why, the real question is why. In 2013, 18 years after the cannons shut up, we buy Italian salad in slave chains. The real question, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34637	We'll continue with the replicas, if that's what my colleague Shucker allows us to do. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34638	Dear counterpart Baranovic, to resolve the question whether you spoke as a layman or did not speak as a layman. No one is more professional on this subject to speak only because, assuming he is from Slavonia, the doctor is professional. So, you and I here are talking about a political debate, so we're talking as politicians, so we shouldn't have any complex or I realized that you have, but it was before you dodging like who's a layman who's not a layman. Since our pledge, you've had several thesises with which I fully agree and I have no doubt of good intentions. However, of all our good intentions, of all our efforts and colleagues on this left hand side, farmers are evil. I spoke in the debate of what the farming was about, how much food we import, what we did in these 20 and several years of Croatian multilaterals, we're getting less and less independent, so I'm not talking about independence, we're more dependent, we're addicted to food imports, and I'm not talking about other addictions, in the banking system, about everything that surrounds us, and every day we lose more and more than that independence we had in the 90s. We eat increasingly expensive food, eat worse food, and eat more and more food from imports. How did that happen? I'm sure it didn't come overnight and this hair wasn't the fault of us finding ourselves in a situation like this. However, this law will not help make it better, we need to discuss how to improve, how to really not only be, all the time speaking in the interest of peasants, but in the interest of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34639	Thank you very much. And this replica corresponds to the respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34640	I agree with you colleagues, especially in this last one, in many ways, but in this last one I can especially agree with. We need to discuss the national interest created by a series of particular interests and the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially in the context of this topic of the interest of Croatian farmers. And you're absolutely right when you say that the situation in which you are today is a Croatian peasant was not born overnight, nor is it what we have today on the day of the debate in the 2nd reading of this law, did this law that has not yet entered into force. So my personal position, as well as the position of the CNS, is to give this law a chance to ask about the Ministry of Agriculture to implement other processes and prepare legal frameworks for them that should make Croatian peasants competitive, and it is known that the vast majority, almost all the laws have shown certain weaknesses, responsible policies and weaknesses spotlessly solved through the novels of the law, through changes and additions, and we will see what this law will do when it enters into practical application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34641	Thank you, too. And the last replica, Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34642	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Comrade Baranovic, you have touched the competitiveness of family economies in your debate. I'd rephrase that part. Why are agricultural economies not competitive enough? In the last eight years, we have had four laws on agricultural land that needed to be solved by the way we manage agricultural land. Unfortunately, these laws did not come to life and a large number of state agricultural land did not come to a real benefit. This is my view that there is a great shortage and a great problem both in the development and family economies and competitive agricultural production in the country. You also mentioned further in the forms and in the economic programme. I regret that the programme did not recognise the young family economies that are in the Republic of Croatia from a total pine of 180 thousand family economies below 35 years is only eight thousand and more. And why do I speak young economies? Because these young economies are by their expertise, education and productivity production far more quality than the old ones. I don't think here that the old should be eliminated, destroyed, but as the rightful owner, you need to recognize what the future is. And what I'd like to say is definitely for the end. That this system that has been so far has not been good, that here we must all advocate to get a system that is fast, which is effective and which is in the service of development and agricultural production and all segments from family economies to legal entities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34643	We have a response to the replica. Here's my colleague Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34644	Thank you. Well, I'm thinking about the end. We don't have time to joke anymore because if we don't start implementing measures quickly and efficiently, not just agriculture of the Republic of Croatia, but this country also comes into a very awkward situation. The intensity of this law is to give farmers the chance to put all unprocessed agricultural land in service of state property. The fact is, of what the Ministry of Agriculture estimates, two-thirds of that isn't operational today. The fact that we've been recording for decades a trend that has stopped for the last twenty years, in fact, we've been recording a trend in the decline of treated surfaces compared to those we have. The fact is that the Croatian peasant today, given the conditions of business he has in recent years, to the overall policy and we can relate to some of the things that happened ten years ago, 15 years ago there is no way of being competitive and that imports are beating him. Why the total imports into the Republic of Croatia failed? not only exports from the Republic of Croatia, which has made imports the most desirable discipline in business. Well, there's a 94 answer. Years. During the night, all the producers including my fishermen have become the poorest of the best-placed. During the night, shipbuilding from the most prospective economic branch became a problem. What are we lying about? What are we lying to, gentlemen? Finally, the position of the CNS and my second time repeat, we will insist that Croatian peasants have everything at their disposal and their colleagues from the EU to enter the game equally and we expect the ministry to lead an active policy in the reform of the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34645	We're continuing the club debate. I ask you not to throw away your colleagues until you have received your word or until you ask for it and you receive it. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of HDZ colleague Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Well, I'll just say two three words that I disagree with my colleagues in the Kukuriku coalition. Especially I come from Slavonia. You know we have our own shipbuilding and that's the wood industry and agriculture unlike you who wanted to show here that shipbuilding is all these years behind us income production. Dear friends, let me just tell you the information if you didn't know that from the beginning of the country of Croatia it was 90. For years, 80 billion kuna has been invested in shipbuilding, so together with this 11 and a half billion plus interest that we have taken up before we enter the EU, and since then how profitable the shipbuilding is and how much we have invested in it. Of course, when we talk about the Agriculture Act that is in our second reading, then I must also say that the agricultural land law is important enough to say that in the first reading it has been discussed for two days more than the state budget. And that's the very fact that says how important this is and how important the agricultural land law is. That's why HDZ has to say in the beginning they won't accept this law and they don't agree with it for two reasons. One reason is that centralization is being introduced. Excuse me, number one, which is not excluded from the sale of state land or is excluded. So you're only going to the concession. We believe that agricultural land should still be allowed to be sold. And secondly, this law introduces centralisation in the decision on the most favourable offers, i.e. 556 municipalities and cities, no longer has the opportunity to sell land as it has so far. We've really heard here many times from individual ministers, the Deputy Prime Minister, the finance minister that the state is not a good owner for many things and we're introducing centralization here. Minister, this isn't just up to you. This is what I'm talking about about the Kukurik Coalition, the government that introduces centralised on the sale of agricultural land where it wants to have maximum control and no matter what thanks you for accepting in this second reading the corrections of people coming from the HDZ board that you accepted it was also our proposal that still on the board that will decide on the sale or as it is already called to be two representatives of local self-government. But unfortunately, they still have no effect on whether the 3+2 committee is made up, so the agency will decide who will be the most favourable or the best. So, centralisation, and on the other hand we are talking about should sell Croatia insurance, Croatia respects all that is state-owned is the government or the state a bad master. So we're completely diverged on one side versus the other. On the other hand, when we talk about decentralisation, there's a lot more to talk about, but I'm going to keep focusing on the subject. One of the disastrous sentences that has been said, which is precisely by the ruling defending this law, is what they say, will no longer be the local sheriffs deciding to assign land. Well, respected colleagues and colleagues, so are we really and I'm coming from the town of Pleternica as head of local self-government, I wonder in what way I'm the sheriff if I've been transparently carrying out all the agricultural land sales contracts and we haven't had one single objection to any sales. So if some local self-government leaders were sheriffs, why didn't we sanction them? And it's not like that. When we talk about legalisation, we are just a city that has said that all our agricultural economies will be freed from a municipal contribution which is also the largest item in the development of project documentation and cost for each farmer. But respected friends don't have legalization because people simply can't legalize existing objects, let alone do something else. Furthermore, taking into account the proposal and the adoption of the Law on Strategic Projects of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Agricultural Land, it warns us that the country continues to gamble recklessly with national agrarian, politics and its competitiveness on the common European market and remains unworked. But not by the mistake of a farmer who especially in the dry-burned summer cry for new hectares. In the Croatian Parliament there is a bill in the second reading, as Mr. Tihomir Jakovina explained, that there are programmes to be abolished because of the ineffectiveness of such a way of making available and the basic form of new agricultural land available is also a lease for fishermen. However, the fact is that according to the current method of distribution, or the allocation of state agricultural land at local level, people were certainly, as I had just said earlier, easier and faster to obtain a basic means of work. Land. Instead of the announced decentralisation of the state administration, the government is doing exactly the opposite and introducing the centralisation I was talking about. Instead of trying to improve the existing system that has truly worked very well, a whole new one is being introduced, which predicts that the state agency is carrying out the allocation of agricultural land, which becomes a narrow throat in the agricultural land allocation process. and to say that surely compared to the activities of local self-government so far, this agency will be far slower, ineffective, and especially with several people. The establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency is indiscriminate and ineffective in the way proposed because it will not speed up the process of making agricultural land owned. Disposing of powers to units of local self-government in the programme of agricultural land ownership will slow down the whole process, create mistrust at local level as it has already done and cause great damage to those units of local self-government that implemented the available law, which I also spoke about. In the past formation of the ministry, there was an organisational unit at the level of administration with a total of twenty people. These 20 people were crushed on one side and on the other, and the question arises that these very few people who remain in the agency will be able to do their jobs. The Land Agency is given too many powers which it will not be able to exercise. The agency that also counts only a few people should take over all the land assignment work, so all the work that used to do management. Ambitious or perhaps too ambitious in the agency is in the body of hiring new employees, and the law also provides for the takeover of the Office of the Land in the membership of the Agency, which will act as an outpost in Osijek. In view of the fact that in 13 months, this government was neither enforceable nor the law that was in force, and we can understand the dissatisfaction of those farmers who were expecting land allocation decisions over the past year. We are witnessing that just a year ago and a few days ago, land sales were banned, but during the year, nothing special was happening. It would be instructive to consider the motives and the minister, so you Mr. Minister, for more than a year, and perhaps two years, to suspend all actions relating to the allocation of agricultural land. If the motive was that the largest number of farms already in the process during 2011 were to obtain land under the old law, then the implementation of the ban on operating under the applicable law is likely to be successful. The acceleration of agricultural land has accelerated the government, calling for stopping all activities related to the allocation of agricultural land to two years. In fact, it has already been 13 months since it was stopped, as I just said, and so in September it could start with the law if we set up this whole agency together and talk about transparency in the past year where it wasn't, we'll come up with the fact that in two years we won't be able to solve anything with the land and that we won't be able to make it available to those who need it, which is our farmers. Furthermore, when we talk about the availability of private land in the way defined by the proposal for a new law, we can say that this is the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which determines the non-implementability of ownership as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the availability of private agricultural land does not need to be prevented or involved until the time limit for the ban on the purchase of foreign natural persons, i.e. for the next 10 years. The criteria for selecting the most favourable bidder have lost their basic role. Since the applicant only knows the concept of a natural or legal person, there is no longer an OPG, i.e. agricultural crafts whose agriculture is a basic activity. The criteria should continue to follow the current legal solutions and practice according to which the OPGs and the trades in which agriculture is a basic activity have a certain advantage in the election. The selection criteria must be precise, without a doubt, and particular attention should be paid to which the legislator empowers the minister or agency to regulate the evaluation of the economic programme with special regulations. Of course, we are also aware that all of our remarks that we have made on the adoption of this law in the second reading will not certainly be adopted, but we are certain that we can believe, therefore we are only left to believe that this law in the second reading of agricultural land if it is implemented in this way as the Proposer suggests it will indeed be just. We really expect it and we pray that it would not be exactly as we predicted, but it will be seen in a very short period of time because it will follow on the basis of the sale of agricultural land I am sure of many complaints and complaints that will then come true with all that we have been saying so far. Once again, I thank you for all those proposals from the proposings within the HDZ for accepting the amendments and additions to the law in this second reading. I would not speak here, given that the minister is sitting here, that the minister is solely guilty. I don't think he's guilty, but I think he's guilty of this coalition government that really doesn't have an understanding of the agricultural economy, and which is precisely my way of withdrawing funds when we've been bringing a budget where we've reduced over a billion kunas of incentives and everything the peasants used before, I really think is responsible because one centralization is being introduced, a centralization that is visible at all levels. Well, respected friends, and the other day when our current prime minister spoke to him and some people from the profession gave him well-intentioned criticism is visible, and here was the SDP vice president who lectured us about HRT that people were being introduced and changed to the well-being of Croatian citizens and that they would serve the people It is evident that centralization is doing its job, changing people in the most brutal way just because they did not like the prime minister and his rhetoric. [[Intruder Milorad Batinić: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34647	Thank you, fellow Lucic. Time's up. We have a series of replicas. The first one was Walter Boluncic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34648	Since this point began with an explanation of shipbuilding, I still felt the need to report. In particular, shipbuilding in Pula is one of the most important i.e. not one of the most significant but significant branches, and in order for the shipbuilding to be on the market and still be... It's not an accident for an oil plant in Pula. Yesterday we could hear the arrival of guests, the season happening on its own. These things of shipbuilding, the arrival of guests, means the season of tourist and small agricultural economies that are in Istria do not happen on their own. The oil was saved 15 years ago with one budget of the City of Pula, which helped him, and today it was 300 million kuna. That oil when you deliver one ship then it happens as we had the chance to hear that the export of Istria is bigger than any other county. And I'm also tying it to this agricultural small economy and boom that happened in Istria, regardless of the price of state land that's bigger is that it's '95. Founding a fund and making this money that was getting into that fund. Through the help of banks, local communities managed to place around 130 million loans for it. So, these things whether they're going to be successful or not, they don't depend that much. And it should also be noted that the shipbuilding at this time is one of the few branches where the technique and technology in Croatia are at the world's top. If we give her up, then we really don't have any technical or technological progress left. Half the college can put a key in a lock. So I think that shipbuilding still has to be done, so I don't talk about how many people live out of it. That's all I'd like to say. So everything is important, but shipbuilding is also a very important thing, and I don't think it can be said that agriculture suffers because the shipbuilding was given at least to us in Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34649	Thank you. We have a colleague Lucic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34650	Well, my colleague and I agree entirely, so we just don't agree on the part where I talked about the shipbuilding that was state-owned. The oil was privatized a few years ago. Right? So that's what I'm talking about. But I'm talking about the shipbuilding that's been invested in since the 1990s until now, 80 billion kuna, so listen to me. And of course I, who come from Požega-Slavonia County, who comes from Slavonia, ask why it is not invested in agriculture, why it is not in the wood industry that is the most progressive employment branch of the very people it has most at the Employment Office. That's what I'm asking you, sir, because 80 billion in shipbuilding imagine it's only 10 billion in these two branches that I mentioned. I ask you where Slavonia would be today and Slavonia wouldn't have as many unemployed as she has today. That's all I wanted to tell you about, and of course shipbuilding is needed especially in these frameworks of privatisation. And this DIV where all those unions have done everything possible to make sure that a man does not come into possession or come as owner, and based on the purchase, so buying that shipyard shows that these are people who have learned to live on the national coat of arms not to work and get paid. God, I don't want any more! It'll either work or it won't work. That's the kind of property I've been pushing for, not for the state to be a milk cow, and for 20 years or 23.4 years, we've been pulling funds, while other branches that are far away and perhaps, not perhaps, but more profitable several times have not been using these state funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34651	Thank you. Next replica Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34652	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, ministers with associates. Mr. Lucic, you said that the government has no understanding of this law either, and you have to admit in this replica and speech you have shown a lot of misunderstandings both for the law and for the mention of shipbuilding, and including now trade unions. So, there's already been a debate about shipbuilding, to you replicas. Therefore, participation in the GDP of the Republic of Croatia shipbuilding Croatia between 1 and a half, 2% while exports are the total participation of the smugglers between 10 and 15% of course depending on the year and the contracts which absolutely indicate what shipbuilding is in Croatia and it can definitely not be in the context of the debate on this matter is important to us, but etc. And as for these trade unions, I must also add that what is crucial in the privatisation and restructuring of the shipbuilding that this government has managed to implement is that future owner and the state of Croatia, the government, the ministry, all institutions but including trade unions only have to respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, and workers who have proven themselves in all the squares will, of course, continue to do what is crucial to continue to work in shipbuilding, and who has learned how to do this is probably you taught them because we have been rehabilitating in 2002, and you have brought it to the losses that we have now had to cover. As far as the Agricultural Production Act is concerned, what I say is not understood by the Government, so the Government has an understanding. With this law, it allows state agricultural land to function as key and not sell out, and you keep talking about the government wanting to sell out land. She's absolutely the opposite of that. And what is crucial and clear has proved that the units of local self-government are not able to implement the laws in an adequate way, put into operation and therefore the state must react and control and simplify the whole process with its agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34653	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34654	Well, my colleague and I agree on everything just now this replication of each other and we don't really need that. We understand each other. So, I just wanted to put emphasis on Slavonia, therefore, on agricultural production and wood industry, which is really taking up a high percentage of GDP in terms of total. And I just wanted to say that these two branches were far more likely to get before and now they need to get more because they're branches that hire many people, and we today have an army of 370,000 people standing at the Employment Service and we don't know what we're going to do with them. That's what I'm talking about. While one branch was won and you were in power there since 2000. So, I'm talking about both HDZ and your government, and I'm not just talking about the SDP government. So, where it's been denied, and it's just those people who are in agriculture that people are crying out simply so they don't get their incentives cut off. So why did we bring agriculture into this situation today? Well, my people, 6,000 economies have gone missing in a year. Look what it is. Well, you know what those are, among those 370,000 people are just these people. Well, Slavonia has to be helped right through agriculture, through the wood industry. The wood industry is 95% of its own raw materials while the shipbuilding when here we are making up 95% of the imported component gentlemen dear. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34655	Thank you. Next replica, Ivica Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34656	Mr. Vice-President, in his debate, Lucic presented his position and position of his political option against the sale of agricultural land and it gave one comparison that we sold, we will sell mail, Croatia insurance, etc. etc. I think that comparison is inappropriate because the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia, if it wants to establish new mail, new insurance, if it has the means it can provide. But if we sell agricultural land once, there's no more chance of new land. Furthermore, you mentioned it with a lot of criticism on this bill that was proposed. I'll say that the laws most of them passed to this were changed almost seasonally. Every year, one new law at a time. If it were easy to make a quality law that would recognize both the family economies and the competitiveness of agricultural production, I believe that 5 attempts would have already made the right law. I would just like to say here that it is the task of all of us representatives and the positions and the opposition to pass a quality law and responsibility is to pass laws for those MPs who will vote. About the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, roses bloom, don't bloom. I'm just asking you how many acres of land in Slavonia and Baranja are unprocessed? How much is it? And what I would like to say is that my position is that certainly a resolute ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be helped by the OPG in the purchase of agricultural land from nursing households which are very much in the Republic of Croatia and there goes much easier. That the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry must help families to get together. These are those measures that will give us competitive family economies in a good way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34657	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34658	Well, my colleague, I agree, but then why have so many agricultural holdings failed in just the last year if that's what you're talking about? Secondly, when we talk about selling agricultural land, do you think someone will come to buy agricultural land, put it under their hands and take it out of the Republic of Croatia? Who's gonna buy that farm land? Well, it's just a local man, Slavonac. He'll buy it because he's allowed it. It's not allowed for any stranger to come and buy farm land, it'll be bought by your neighbor, my neighbor, me, you or anyone else. So that's what we're talking about. But we give man stability by buying agricultural land, especially if he has long-term plantations. We will give him one stability and a guarantee that in the future he and his children and of the children are the owners of that land. But once again, on the one hand we speak, we heard from your former minister that the state is not a good owner. Well, we heard that 50 times to sell Croatia's bank, to give highways in concessions, etc., etc. Okay, maybe it's concession and good, but in this case it's definitely not. So let's not speak on one side that the state is not a good owner, we leave the agency and centralize and the government decides everything. Look, Vlad, why doesn't the local self-government unit decide as boredom? Why was that model bad? Somebody tell me. Here's the head of local self-government as much as you want to let me know any of why he was bad? He wasn't bad. ... So who says? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you're because you're complicated at all, but let's look at the units of local self-government that are out of the 556 that they've spent completely had, like I said no problem. The problems are just individual. Well, there's no need for individual problems to pass new laws and change laws. Well, that's what this is about. And the efficiency of the agency, we'll see what it's gonna be like.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34659	Thank you. Next replica, Miss twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lucic here is really in your presentation you said well that we at the HDZ Club simply cannot support this law because he simply because we conceptly disagree with this law. Because he's neither developmental nor strategic, nor of national interest. Because if the national interest were respected, I hope you agree with me, and you said from the presentation, then the family farmers who have 200 thousand and because of them we cannot agree with this law would at least have the advantage of buying, and this moment as they stand in the text, they have neither the advantage nor the lease. We hear today that some of the MPs are worried that the peasant doesn't have the money to buy, so he doesn't have to give it. So they keep saving the peasant from something and then they push it deeper. What are they afraid of? A rich peasant, an independent peasant, a farmer who can produce, a peasant who will buy land because for him the country is something to live on and pride? A country farmer never sells. In seven or ten years, this principle will lead to this, and we will have to do so, so that the country will be able to buy all members and members of the EU. So what happens then? We didn't let our peasant in Croatia buy this land, but we'll have to give it to me, I don't know, I won't quote anyone, I won't say anything. And what's the difference, you've noticed that well, between a 50-year lease and a sale. It is important, and you noticed it well in your debate because this lease was not set for peasants, these 200 thousand OPGs or farm crafts, but was absolutely set for someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34661	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34662	I am sure, and my claims and my knowledge and my conviction stand long ago that you should never fear a rich peasant. What are we doing? We are doing exactly the damage to the peasants by these various amendments and additions to the law, by reducing the budget for agriculture, and we have mutilated the agricultural economy. These people sitting upstairs were raising loans, they were in great danger of being blocked tomorrow because they pawned all their assets to buy machines because they were preparing for an agrarian reform that was so wordful and which was, where the former government encouraged it. And now all of a sudden it's a shame that the new government is coming with new thinking, people are getting into investment, and now I'm reducing their incentives, reducing their milk price, and it's just coming to a beggar stick and it's coming into a position that it can't work anymore. Well, respected friends, so who's going to be responsible for all these people who are now among these 370,000 people who are at the employment office, so do we wonder what this government's policy is that it's afraid of the rich peasants that the whole country should live on, where it's supposed to be connected and blue and green, and that's all we have are stories and flossules and ultimately there's nothing left of it. We're still importing, how much food we've imported this year, how much we're going to bring into the next one, and our peasant is getting poorer and poorer. In my Požega-Slavon County, there are no more farms of swine, they're all destroyed, they're closed. Why, well, I can't function, I can't function, and that's why we think that according to the peasant, we need to be more liberal by agriculture far, we need to encourage them, not deny them. So in front of them are billions, billions and some kunas denied, unlike the Croatian... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34663	Next replica, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34664	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Lucic, it is clear that this law is aimed at the great, powerful and rich through its centralization. None of what the OPG would have were merely declared to be in that law, and clearly so far were the rules of the championship that said: "OPG holders whose agriculture is a basic activity and has been registered in the register for a purpose 2 years since the publication of the public tender. Two were, the holder of the OPG or the owner of the agricultural craft to which the agricultural supplementary activity is and has been entered in the register for at least 2 years since the publication of the invitation to tender. Commercial companies which are in the register of agricultural activity and are registered in the register for a period of at least 2 years from the publication of this invitation to tender. So companies are only in 3 places, other natural and legal persons dealing with agriculture and are listed in the register, other natural and legal persons are in 5 places." They have additional criteria in the selections that are defined, so in other criteria are placed the MAH or the owner of the agricultural crafts which is the Croatian defender, there is no such thing today. And why isn't there? Because it's an eclectic conflict of interest, Mr. Minister and colleague Lucic. Look at the law and presentation Mr. Kuterovac sent to the ministry, there he is hiding and has his email from which he sent to the ministry, so that you can come to each other to enable those who have 100 tractors, we will also reveal the relationship that is between you. And it is not the only relationship, this relationship is already defined, there is another one that is with you in the ministry, and that is Mrs Tatjana Kaladzic, who is the wife of Veljak Kaladzic and so in turn we do not talk about names. All of these are your goals, how to put these poor people in a black country, how to leave the poor and raise the rich. That's your goal and that's your intention through this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34665	Thank you. Comrade Djakic, you've replicated fellow Lucic as far as I can see. Do not abuse the Rules of Procedure that I must even warn on replicas. We have a response to the replica. Here's my colleague Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34666	Thank you very much. Well, in any case, I've talked about it before, so a little peasant economy should have an advantage over big economies anyway. The large economies have been networked for years into large systems of agricultural land and just by passing laws in previous years on family, small economies we have given priority to rounding it up and having exactly thousands, and thousands of small farms make up one huge, large economy. We have also witnessed that in the past time, our picks that were huge systems have come into trouble and killed all the employees and the whole system where this country has been making billions of kunas and billions of kunas, and today we are not fighting to give these very small farms an advantage and encourage them. So why has this government mutilated this agriculture in its budget, this most affected Slavonia, which is the most affected, which is why, is that why it has an explanation? No, and just the whole time we're talking today, the government's strategy is not good because it doesn't encourage a small economy that's the only one that should. I was very pleased when our current minister came from Brod, from Slavonia, but I am very sorry today for him, he cannot change, is the government's strategy that dictates how Croatian agriculture and small farmer will develop, OPG. It's not one man, it's a government strategy that doesn't give the right to agriculture to develop at the rate that it should, and for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34667	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34668	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lucic, sometimes they say, "Better ever than never."I remember in 2010 when the Regional Development Fund was abolished, when I was speaking here at a pay phone, then you were the one who called me: "And who are you, so you're not the Slavonic Zorro to protect Slavonia and Baranja." But I'm glad you finally realized that the central government is ignoring Slavonia, so here it is, and that you agree with us today and with the positions of the HDSSB club. There are things to be clarified, you're right when you talk about both shipbuilding and agriculture. The strategic branch of Croatia is also the shipbuilding of the economy and tourism but it seems agriculture has fallen out of it. However, we are not against the problem of shipbuilding. We're absolutely not, but we're against getting out of the strategic branches of the economy, and that's what's wrong. Because as shipbuilding is most important in Dalmatia, agriculture is the most important in Slavonia and Baranja. However, I must remind myself that in Croatia's negotiations with the EU under that chapter of market investment, we were simply forced to bring them in and shipbuilding without defending ourselves in a position to be able. So they won't be able to count on government incentives anymore. But agriculture is precisely due to EU policy that needs to rest on incentive. I said that the basic key instruments for the development of agriculture are direct incentives and the creation of a prerequisite for you to be able to promote profit and rural development measures. It is a common EU agricultural policy and our government here you are rightly wrong. This ministry, this current ministry, is wrong that it reduces incentives in the state budget and at the same time does nothing to solve a very promising problem next year, and that is that we will not even know if we will have any rights from EU funds because the state budget has not been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34669	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Lucic, please. You've been a little too long. Here's my colleague Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34670	... Our thoughts are the same mainly when it comes to Slavonia. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I'm neither bigger nor bigger. Well, that's exactly what this is about. I talk about the government all the time. So it's the government that brought such a strategy towards agriculture that is so important to us because look at that whole continental part of it, but look what's down in the coast today, the land that was a stoner until yesterday, where the vineyards were planted, where the olive trees were planted. Today, we also reduce incentives at all levels and at the same time enter the EU 1.7, and this is exactly what the EU says that agriculture should be encouraged, you will receive EU funding. Well, that's what we're talking about. That's the point, and we wonder why such a relationship is with that peasant, but we do if we know. If our peasant is rich, then we'll all be rich. We see for ourselves that our industry, especially our construction, has been completely destroyed. The question of survival has no investment. And once again here we say we have hectares untapped. So why do we have untapped hectares untapped, unworked. So let's let people process if they bought this mechanism. So let's give it to them at no cost to let zero kuna make it all expensive without people working at the same time and not giving us 6 thousand OPGs or agricultural holdings in just a year's time. So what's it gonna be in three or four years? Well, I'm afraid we're going to get into such a situation that we may not be able to produce our own power for our own purposes and then say we don't have production. We have to introduce it. That can't happen to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34671	Thank you. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34672	I'm a little cold, so maybe my intensity isn't that clean. You see, fellow Lucic has done similar things in the past eight years. It comes Friday, then this assembly of that chamomile doesn't hear a single amendment, and then many MPs raised their hands and disagreed with their own opinion, and that fact hasn't changed in a year and a half. And we're probably because we're where we are because a lot of people don't think with their heads and raise their hands like Grandma says or whatever the party chief says. And that's a fact. And this law is primarily not intended for family farms, not for the development of agricultural production. Well, that showed the morning when more than two billion kunas for the development of agriculture came out of the state budget in the last year and a half. We're a state that doesn't have a strategy for agricultural production. We are a country that still has more imports than agricultural products. In the end, we are also the country that organizes the World Ornament Championship in Biograd at sea, which is as if we're hunting tuna in Josava, that's the lake where that carp and shouting lived Linic. Here's Slavonia was brought to that level with both agricultural production and economy. And as for legalization, don't let it stay on the sidelines. It's not the biggest communal contribution problem. One of the biggest problems is a water contribution that is greater than any municipal contribution and the state could pass legalisation law as some other countries have passed So wait for the closing sentence. [[/Intruder Batinić: Thank you. We have a response to the replica.]] It should pass a simple law that would legalise all the facilities and there would be no problem in local self-government especially not before the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34673	Thank you. Answer, fellow Lucic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34674	Your colleague is not well to respect you all the time. You spoke like this yesterday. You raised your hands like this, even if you did because you were in the previous SDP, so you raised your hand differently, now that you're in SDP, we're not going to talk about it. I mean aside. I don't just like that it's constantly apostrophe and I say you have an example on your side. Of course, water contributions are the biggest problem in legalizing objects. Not just in legalization. Look at me when we talk about today's legalization of not only agricultural facilities, so my people, I'm the head of local self-government. So I can count on the fingers of these two hands how many legal requirements I have. She's gone. Why isn't she here? Because it's too expensive. Why didn't we make a decision? These facilities were built on one side and we're going to go for an appropriate price like other countries in our environment did, let's give legalization of the facilities, especially to emphasize the value of the objects that are on the sea that has its value. So what's this poor guy of mine in Slavonia going to cost 80, 100 euros down a square of land, and with me, I'm selling in the zone for 1 euro if we can get someone. 50, 150 acres so they can sell someone. So when we talk about agricultural economies and legalisation, of course it won't be anything. But look, it's been a year, it's gonna be another year. We will be in the EU for a year without moving. Our economies will not be legalised and all the rights that we will have to and need to achieve by joining the EU are practically nothing and you gentlemen are doomed to failure. That's the point of the problem. And Mr. Minister, since you are our fellow citizen, especially in the 5th constituency, I would really like to ask you to convey all this with your influence and the minister. These aren't bad thoughts, these are the desperate thoughts of us Slavons and I really appreciate you, but tell the Prime Minister that his arrogance does not affect the exercise of the rights of farmers in Croatia because their survival is near the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34675	Time. Thank you. And the last replica, Marijan Škurić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34676	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague, and above all in your exhibition, you started from the shipbuilding, ended up with agriculture in a way that didn't invest in agriculture, so here we talked about legalization, and now it turns out that I doubt if I'm in Croatia at all, if I'm even on this planet, it turns out that now many Martians here are present from Mars, and it's a miracle that my God who did it all together, what we've experienced from the great agriculture that's all been processed by people who've been comfortable living from who we've really had to buy cheaply and come to have this kind of situation in agriculture. And that really surprise is great in the world and then we always wonder who needs to answer that question that you've been so eager to defend it for 50 years. Today, by means of allocation funds that I agree with should not be allowed 80 billion to go to shipbuilding but at least 20 billion more to agriculture, 20 billion to the wood industry, in construction today this Croatia would certainly be better off and not have to fight these problems, and four times have to change the Agricultural Land Act. What we really need to say is that we need to meet the village. Why? The earth binds people. If that's not possible, what will people do? He'll leave this country or he'll go into some other activity, and that's a question if he can again if we've provided them with the conditions. So let's not be surprised what someone did, I think this law is very much another step closer to the village, close to farmers so that they can actually achieve what we have a wealth of agriculture in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34677	Thank you. We have a colleague Lucic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34678	My colleague, I've been focusing on the shipbuilding, that's what your colleague in front of you spoke before me, so I just wanted to apostrophe that we have our shipbuilding to invest in, and that's the agricultural and wood industry, yes. And we're not against any shipbuilding, you know, I'm not against it, but I'm up for shipbuilding so it's private property so now you're working or not working and you get paid. Don't be afraid of getting paid in Brodosplit without working. It won't be safe. And look, 23 years already, that's how shipbuilding behaves in this country because they've been doing something that's below every profit and I'm not saying everything else. Therefore, we live in Croatia, and that is exactly what we are talking about, to try this agricultural economy outright to help it. So which times do we say that we must not refer to those agricultural producers who feed Croatia and people in Croatia. At the same time, of course, they must be included in the prices on the market. But I am sure of the incentives that other agricultural producers make within the EU that our peasant can fit in, but let's give him a hand until we join the EU until all those who are far better equipped and far better organised run us over. Let's help our peasant to get right to the entrance, and we only have a little time left to help, not to destroy by passing laws and repressive behaviour of the government to make 6 thousand imagine economies in one current year shut down. So these people ended up at the Employment Service. They're among 272, three thousand as many as they already are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34679	Thank you. And after a series of replicas on behalf of Proposer Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lucic, I would have a couple of non-observations but explained about your presentation on behalf of the club with all due respect and on the care shown for the OPG. Listening to the heated debate that has developed then I wonder if I'm a minister for 15 months or 15 months and 8 years before that, so everything that's been badly done in 10 years, and now it's for payment, and you're the one who ran the ministry and designed all these previous laws on agricultural land and other laws in the agricultural package, coming up now. I also didn't get the clearest idea when you were talking about attitudes, so you said, among other things, there's no O.P.G. I do not know whether you have been working on the basis of the first law or the law of the first reading. A further correction is about the need to establish or design a new agency. I will remind you again that the 2008 law that you sent into the procedure and raised your hands was established by the Agency for Agricultural Land and that by the 2009 government regulation of the Republic of Croatia, it was formally and resuscitated. The other thing is that she didn't do anything or did very little things according to what she needed, but they're facts. You are talking about the fact that this law is ineffective or that the existing law, that is, the law under which it has been all these years, has been faster to reach agricultural land. So isn't it just saying that less than 30% of the land in 10 years was put into operation in fact how well and how well this law and all those amendments and additions to the laws that were on the version of the same, or how the most important resource for agricultural production functioned? If we're talking about Slavonia, which is on my heart because I'm a Slavonac, but we can do it a little bit and we'll take a look at your county that has a total of 28640 hectares of agricultural land. Only 11217 hectares or less than 39% were placed in office in 10 years. You can't say that there were no verticals, that you didn't have both the government and the ministry and the agency and the county level and the local level, that it couldn't have been put more and better. I didn't expect your club to support this law because, as my colleague Sumrak said, there is a conceptual difference in the understanding of the problem and access to agricultural land in any case. We've made it very clear that it's a national treasure. As well as Croatian waters, as well as Croatian forests are not and will not be sold. We said there'd be a way to rent it for 50 years, and that's why we agreed on this law. We have made some exceptions with the aim of rounding up where there is the possibility of buying land, but we have determined exactly what plots they are and to what size and how they are. We have also given the possibility of what unfortunately has never been in previous laws, which is that agricultural land can be given to the use of scientific and teaching institutions in the area of agriculture, penitentiary, institution of which the founder of the Republic of Croatia is 25 years old. We had an absurd situation in 10 years that agricultural institutes, colleges, secondary vocational schools, ergels, our penitentiary or educational institutions couldn't reach our agricultural land and we made this possible by this law. As head of the local self-government unit, I have heard no one here say that in some way he praised the change for this second reading where we valorized the importance of land located in a particular local self-government unit, or raised the percentage that goes from compensation to the budget of the local self-government unit to 65%. To talk about that it will take two years to live or start working, I made it very clear that the drafts of all sublegal acts have already been drawn up and that very soon after the adoption and publication of this law will be done by the end and the first competitions will go. The comments were whether it was an additional centralisation or not. I think that in a series of articles here we have said finely that the local self-government unit will be precisely involved in the whole process, from the preparatory part and the sending of requests to the Agency to participate in committees and decision-making on the most favourable lease and thus to do its part of the work and be involved in the transparent part of the implementation of the whole process. In 10 years we haven't had an information system, we've heard that documents are lost, that they had to be repeated with demands, complements and so forth. We didn't create an information system that would show with a few clicks what stage the contest is, how, what, which is the preparation, what particles and the rest. We'll have that now. Each agricultural producer and almost 30000 agricultural producers are used by the agronet system will at any time be able to verify which particles and surfaces are prepared for competition and at which stage the decision is taken and when it is introduced into possession. Speaking of sales, yes, sales is a problem. Obviously, it's the biggest conceptual difference in this part, but you didn't say that under the existing law that you authors and that you've spent all these years with coalition partners, you've just predicted other than sales and long-term leases and priority concessions, and now you're showing that justifiable or I don't know what to call care for family economies. The current law has made it possible through priority concessions that significant agricultural areas under lower conditions and prices come conditionally high, but what this law will not allow will not allow us to create large, terribly large through sales. You're talking about the OPGs that contact you and are looking for and saying that this law is not good, that it should be made possible to sell. And I'm very much in the field and I'm in contact with a number of, many agricultural producers who couldn't even get to agricultural land. We also had the current Agriculture Act and the existing Agricultural Land Act, and we had the possibility that, in fact, in practice, there was a higher number of OPGs reported in one address, up to 18. For what reason? Just for reasons of reporting and mixing with agricultural land. We have a situation in the field where people have about 500, 600, 700 or more hectares on one OPG, and they have one or no employees, while we have a large number of agricultural producers who have entered serious investments if we talk about livestock, farms and other, that could not reach agricultural land. You have had 10 years under the existing law the possibility of putting all state land into operation under these clear criteria. Under 30% of state land is operational. This law will change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34681	Thank you, Minister. We've got a replica of reported equities. First responds Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34682	Well, I don't understand what the concept of this government is that every legal proposal is based on a conflict between someone and something. Well, no one here wants to have a big and small conflict. So if he's normal, if he understands some things, they can't do it without each other or simply, the system can't function economically because of each other. And why do you keep saying that? But what I've come forward for, Mr. Minister, is that you simply want to make sure that 5 is less than 2. You want to convince us. Your budget is incentives only in agriculture cut from 3 billion to 2200 and you claim that with 2 billion and 200 you will help Croatian peasants more than you would have helped with 3900. And you can talk in one way or another, but Mr. Minister nit Croatia would have today had the kind of financial envelope it would have won in agriculture if everything had not been done in the previous years and you could speak in such a way and in such a way. However, the work of colleagues of Cobankovic and you are both heaven and earth. It's day and night, according to that, but in addition to his colleague, Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34683	We have a reply to the replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So since today is a terrible lot of bids related to the amount of support on how it started with a billion, that, and I think, we've already reached our colleague Marasovic's 3 billion that in 2 years we had less resources in the agriculture budget, I'm going to say that's not true. Gentlemen, look at the numbers and your calculations. From 2008 to 2010, it moved on a basis of 3 billion to 3 billion and 200. In 2011, you paid 3 billion and 700 because it was a pre-election year, so you went to buy votes, and it didn't work out for you. Last year, 2012, we paid 3 billion and 20 million kunas of budget, 2 billion and 700 for production 2012, those 300 and some million were debts that you left behind that were drawn by some tails from the 2008 unpaid support. For this year we have somewhere at our disposal what you say is 2200 if you'd read a little bit better everything that goes into support you'd see it's somewhere around 2 billion and 600. We have now paid almost a billion and 300, three and a half months and before we have to pay for the support. If you're talking to numbers, then please be realistic and look at what it really is. I would like to, personally, wish there hadn't been any skeletons, if there hadn't been any tails, if all had been paid, that this year we didn't have 150 million capital from the previous periods, that in 2014, we don't have 75 million that we have to provide in the budget from previous periods, and that our family economies and the entire primary agricultural production, but also the food without which we can't because this symbiosis of both was much more prepared in a much better condition and much more prepared for what is waiting for us in a few months. Those are the facts, Mr. Shuker. Not three billion less. I'm talking about these smaller amounts. The total budget of the Ministry of Agriculture is slightly smaller in the exceptions, but we are reducing in that part of the projects that shouldn't have gone through, we cut down on material costs, we don't act as wastefully as you did. [[Invader Batinić: You have not received a word from your colleague Šuker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34685	Comrade Shuker, please don't get your word. Don't come in! We have the next replica of Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34686	Thank you. That's an interesting question. I'll ask you a question. What is the total budget for agriculture, and what was it? This is the first question, and the second question has some changes in this law that are different from the first reading. One of them is that a provision has been introduced to allow foreign natural and legal persons to acquire ownership on agricultural land in inheritance. Actually, I don't mind, but I'm setting up each other's readings. And what about the people who in the former state were nationalized property and, among other things, land? We are solving the problem of the rights of foreign citizens to inherit, therefore to foreign natural and legal persons, that by inheriting the property, and what with our citizens, our citizens, whose communist rule in the former system took away, nationalised the property, submitted orderly demands and there is no solution. Wait a minute, wait a minute. There are a very large number of those still waiting for answers to that question. And another thing's changed. Article 24 provides for the possibility that no compensation for the re-use of agricultural land is paid when the transport infrastructure is built, the municipal infrastructure. That was fine. However, here it is now added that it does not have to be paid for buildings, for scientific and educational activities, health care and welfare institutions, whose founder is the Republic of Croatia. And what about those institutions whose founder is local or regional self-government units. In this regard, we think that there is no difference, there is no difference between a health institution owned by a state and a health institution owned by a state and a health institution owned by a county that has to pay for re-use.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34687	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34688	I think this should be complemented by this Article 24. That's what we're gonna give the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34689	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34690	As far as Article 24 is concerned, Buric, on this part of the decree that you have said, we have been working together to say that such facilities can be done if they are connected to the general state, that is, if the investor is the Republic of Croatia not to leave empty space that then private investors also use the opportunity along with all those areas that we have to build such buildings on agricultural land. As regards return through the available programme, certain areas are designed to return if possible in nature, unless units of local self-government have left surfaces and percentages are according to the requirements that have been with the deadlines in progress. For the rest, you will have to ask your colleague Orsat probably when the whole procedure will be completed. But those surfaces and that part of the area for other purposes that the units of local self-government in the programs have left for their own purposes, and we are talking about cemeteries, parks, green areas and other such agricultural land remains for local self-government units. Other forms, other surfaces are subject to availability as defined in the law itself. And as far as the budget is concerned, we were talking about the support, about the support being bid. More will be likely to talk about the full budget on the rebalancing itself. But support doesn't touch like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34691	Thank you. Next line, Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34692	Here's some more controversy, and look, Ministers, I don't quite agree when you say that everything has come now to collect what's bad. Well, I guess it doesn't turn out that the former government and the ministry were working so unquality that it would all go wrong now. You're talking about skeletons, see in 2003 when it's again and again in 2004. HDZ came to power I came to the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Highways and Croatian Roads. There were 3 billion kuna deficits in the Croatian highways, when we talk about it. So one government and the other government probably keep a little bit of a drawer before they lose the election, and then when the other one comes, it pulls it out. It's nothing new. Not even at the Ministry of Agriculture, if that's the case. On the other hand, we witnessed, you had a presentation in Osijek of you 6 which ministers made and indeed had a wonderful exhibition. But I didn't want to answer there, but now I'm telling you, there's no telling how bad the last government was doing, so that's where you put the comparisons. Well, look, and now I'm talking about the Ministry of Agriculture, who has negotiated all these negotiations to join the EU so that you at the Ministry of Agriculture, Regional Development and any ministry can have something to talk about and have assumptions. So these negotiations were indeed made in the best possible way to please the Croatian farmer and the Croatian man. You're in the Ministry right now, and that's why it's something good that's been done. But let's not say we're going back, I'm not the one to talk like that. When I talk, I said we'd lose two years. Look, it's been three years and three months since we don't sell agricultural land or rent this or anything, it still takes you at least five, six months to put this into operation. Well, of course it's been two years. I agree with the information, with this Arkod, great. And we've done something, you've built it up, and that's something that agriculture needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34693	Thank you. There's no answer. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you, Mr. Minister, have brought up the thought of how long you've been on this responsibility. 14 or 15 months, no matter the month more or less. These honorable people upstairs at the gallery they expect every day from you, from day one, to solve their problems, to stop this negative trend, this destruction of Croatian villages and Croatian peasants. They're not talking to the Minister of Finance. They're talking to the Minister of Agriculture who owes it. But when it comes to this particularity of the question, then you go back to the past. And when it comes to the past, then it really needs to be repeated here that the operational programmes have offered and improved the situation in agriculture since the construction of numerous stops, the restoration of stables. In addition, increased quantities of milk production testify, and now we are witnessing exactly the opposite. So, the decline in production and everything I've said before. And the third, key thing, so you promised, please nicely, you promised your Kukuriku coalition a better life for the village and the peasant. And who's the first one to get that from me in Podravina say on their backs? He's got a peasant and now he's in such trouble. And now look, in these circumstances we're looking at right now, it's not my intention to call anyone, but on the left hand side of 4, 5 people sit and follow and support. And now that the election starts, then everyone's gonna have a good time in the middle, we love you, we take care of you, etc. I wonder what you're going to tell them and what you're going to explain to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34695	Thank you, too. Next replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34696	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister is passing time quickly, at the beginning people say what was in the previous time but immediately give solutions for future time. And that is what is generally expected of every minister, and in this part of your case you are expected to offer something to the Croatian village, to offer something to the agricultural producers, to offer some hope for people to stay in that village from which they are mass evicted and left. What you have done, which is in the perception of our people living in rural areas, and many of them still live in rural areas after this term, it will be a very small number of people that you have stopped the availability of state-owned agricultural land, that you have looked at the muskets of the milkers and that there has been a huge mess in the cost of incentives and subsidies. It is in some way three perceptions that I can extract from conversations with people that I am in principle daily and that you have managed to create about yourself a perception in front of the sector that you should represent and that you should develop that you are probably among all these ministers in the Croatian state who were the worst agriculture minister for peasants at this time and that you are the least concerned about them. It's a perception of people living in the country, living off agriculture about you. I'd like that perception to change. I would like you to be the most successful minister just start proposing once, start doing something for the benefit of the peasants and the village, not constantly getting away with past times and also providing the wrong information about some period of mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34697	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34698	Well, as soon as I can, agrarian reform, this law is the beginning of real serious reforms. As you say, peasants, farmers and farmers as we call them, who you contact are consumers, are people who are connected to this ministry, and it is important for them to implement the reforms. If we'd done it two or three or five years ago to have the courage to do it, we should have attitude, we should have vision and mission and know how. It would be much easier, it would be much easier, we'd be much more prepared, we'd have better conditions, we'd have more agricultural land, we'd have a clearer way of organising all the economies and developing them further. Unfortunately, they were put in a situation that they had to sort of spread that they didn't know which way they were going, and when we talk about Croatian farmers, all Croatian farmers are my farmers. And while I'm working and running this ministry with all my knowledge and power, I'm going to stand up for their interests. I'm not going to look at it as it was when you ran the ministry, whether it was a green card, and how it was determined by the farmers. We're not going to work and we're not doing a privileged voting apparatus or some kind of welfare, we're trying to create conditions in which real active agricultural producers will be able to organize their economies and work on them. Those who do not through rural development measures that Buric also spoke of today, which are extremely important, where there will be a terrible amount of resources available to us, we will try through some other activities in rural areas to design their work, their work. To work in a way that we have 1st, 2nd or 3rd hectare or 1st or 3rd throat of cattle, which was once a plan and way of functioning your party's agricultural policy, unfortunately cannot and will not pass into the EU that we are entering. We have to be better, better, more competitive, and then we'll be able to produce more and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34699	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34700	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34701	Thank you. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34702	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, two questions. The first is one request, I think there's plenty of time to even this law, regardless of what the prime minister says when the opposition shoots on his stomach, I don't get shot at anything, but in any case this bill goes into the third reading since, this law practically puts all units of local self-government at the same level. I agree with you, the ministry was the one that was holding back, looking at the color of the party cards that would pass the contest, is there any objection in every contest. Also, the competent state services have shown completeness, so to speak, complete dissatisfaction, apathy when units of local self-government sought this land of particular interest put into the agricultural land distribution programme as early as 2002. So all government and Racanov, and Sanader, both Kosoricin and Milanovic have never responded to those demands. And thus stalled the economic development of local self-government units. The question is, we have 2001 as agricultural land on the basis of one-year contracts. That land is now processed, sown. These people who are now on that land, the competition is called, the competition is held, there are objections, but let's see if the objections are justified, probably there are justifiable ones. What I am looking for, both as a parliamentary representative and as mayor for those units of local self-government, the minister shall issue a guide on the use of these particles so that the family economies may exercise the right to encourage. Because it's a land in operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34703	Time. We have an answer, Minister Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34704	Col. Vinković, if you have carefully read the law, then you have seen that we have also put the possibility of temporary availability to agricultural land owned by the state within 5 years of the Agency's resolution, which is issued by the Agency for Agricultural Land. Why is this item, precisely because of this problem, which nearly 90 000 hectares were processed back a few years on the basis of the support, on the basis of confirmation, whether after the expiry of some form of lease agreement or not existed. This institution gives the possibility that in the next 5 years until the full functioning of the existing provisions of the law, in about 50 years and these agricultural producers will continue to be able to continue, in particular to process the areas that have so far been processed... Good businessmen and where they already had either autumn or prepare the spring seed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34705	Thank you. Now it's the next replica, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34706	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have one question for the minister, and this is the following, let me know if, by May, half of May, until the country that is being processed will succeed and means insert, will be introduced into the ARCOD, because if it is not in the ARCOD, then it cannot be given any support or encouragement. Btw. That same ARCOD is fortunately here is the former government and former minister, don't keep you ministers, we don't hate you, I've already told you that. Indeed, just like our colleague Hrg, we are glad to have, so that we may have, and our wish is a good minister. But you're suffering too much because of former Minister Cobankovic, so you can't reach him. So watch out that man was out in the field, living with cooperatives, associations, that man could be stopped on the road by any peasant, with you now at the ministry, you have to fix it, you can't, you can't call people, there's no way. You know what the answer is? Well, if you'd like to check in with the port downstairs, someone in the seventh grade will see you. It doesn't matter. You can't get to the Minister. And so don't give us hot water here to spill everyone in this House, but just answer me if you can get the right to support those who haven't even got the land yet, and especially what they won't be able to buy and how you're going to do it. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34707	This was a question, not a replica, but in the spirit of discussion and the interest of the subject, I allowed. Minister, do you want to answer the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34708	Well, it was more appropriate that you left a question for the current clock but since we're here and we're staying here for a long time today I'm going to answer you about a million 318 thousand acres is listed in the ARCOD and there is. Much less than we really have agricultural land and even less than the land is processed because of the unsettled land-book conditions and the rest, but this does not say that this deadline that you speak is a permanent deadline of 15.5. when power will be entered because the power will be at least 12 months but also the reform of the CAP allows to periodically increase the quantities that are in the ARCODU and for which support can be obtained. This is one of the problems in some way or remarks that those who have come by buying in one way or another to land because by increasing the land fund in ARCODU and we have a plotted envelope that goes for direct payments on the surfaces to be reduced in some way in proportion to the assets that will be obtained per hectare. Protecting their interests or individual stakeholders is not something that will be the basis of the work and conduct of this law. Through this law we will put maximum or try to put all available state land into operation. As far as we can see, we'll see from year to year. We'll file a report and you'll be able to ask every time. And this is about coming or not coming to the ministry some way or some procedures have to be respected. It wasn't even much of a fellow Cobankovic that got off the road into the cabinet, but I think that some things had to be announced and agreed, and the only thing that maybe you as a party colleague had was a constantly open door but some couldn't even get close to the ministry and that when you talk about whether I wanted to compare myself with a colleague that I highly appreciate and respect not. I'm doing my job, and by the way I'm doing it, I'm going to be evaluated, and if you think he's doing very well, so maybe this part of the charity work or what he should have done under this deal to suggest that he come work with me at the Ministry of Agriculture to advance the ministry's work, so here's what we can talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34709	Minister's time. Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34710	Well, here's the same thing in the spirit of this debate. Let me do the same. These are strange criteria. I agree exactly the same that you won't be able to reach former Minister Cobankovic who couldn't say no, especially not to his boss Sanader, so I completely agree that it would be good for him to come to the Ministry of Agriculture to do his duty to the law, country and all that he has done wrong. In the rest, Mr. Cobankovic took care of all his relatives and himself up to ten knees. Besides, that's what the media is about. I think we should investigate that. However, it was a national HDZ care sport. The care continues especially with HNS and care and continues with SDP through different models. You said before the minister that agricultural land is a national treasure. I fully agree, but you must also know in the government that national wealth, that roads are also national wealth. How you will not sell out Croatian laborists support you in this. Do not sell out land that is a national treasure, rent it, so you have no right to neither sell nor make those built roads concession as you say. One big mistake this government is making is that you don't educate peasants waiting for them in the EU. There was a debate here earlier, as if we didn't live in Croatia, as if we didn't know what the problems were for you, the cars went downhill, you said we could stop them. But you didn't stop them. You didn't push them to the top of the hill. You're still fighting, the car's slipping down. You should try to reverse that trend.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34711	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34712	Well, it's very short. Dear colleague Vuksic, I agree with you in this section that we have not stopped the car yet because when ten or 15 years are constantly driving downhill and this shows unfortunately most of the negative trends then it is very difficult in one segment of the very hairy road to stop. But we're significantly slowed down, believe me, and with this law and with this whole reform package, I think we're going to stop them or turn them in a different direction. There's one more thing I agree with you and I'm giving it a terrible amount of energy and I'm trying to make my associates think that our system is bad, that I'm not going to tell us it's too bad, but it's not good enough. That we need to be much more efficient that one ministry that has nearly 2600 employees plus advisory, plus institutions, scientific institutions that have never been sufficiently quality and well-connected enough to the ministry for the past 20 years, and even less with agricultural producers, the whole system needs to be launched in a completely different way. When we talk and that's the story of the economic programme, about the difficulty of developing an economic programme that will not be elaborated in the encyclopaedia teams, but will be a simple programme that will be able to fill in every agricultural producer that also meets the same or more complex support requirements. There won't be much difference, but who's gonna help if he gets stuck? Agricultural Advisory Service, which should be on the ground, not in the office, employees of the Agricultural Land Agency, employees of the Croatian Agricultural Agency, employees of the Payment Agency. Hundreds of people have been employed a couple of years in those agencies. These are people who have become classical government bureaucrats. However, there are great people who have not simply had the opportunity to come to the field, to be more with people and to work. I try or spin the system by making it as effective as possible for these people to be among the agricultural producers, to be a quality service to them and to show that they care about what they end up getting paid from.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34713	Thank you, Minister. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club Igor Czech Republic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34714	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the final proposal of the Land Act. One of the most important documents for all those who are directly or indirectly related to the agricultural and food industries, such as the Republic of Croatia, is a respectable number. Not long ago, to be precise, just over a month ago, on February 5th and 6th, the debate was held here in Parliament, or the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land. At the time, I said that such a bill does not deserve to come into second reading because it has an absolutely negative impact on the existence of the Croatian village and on the future of the survival of local and regional self-government. My words seem to have swallowed the wind. And today we have a chance to discuss the final bill that will be passed on Friday. I just want to know how those who raise their hands on this law will have the strength to return to their municipalities, cities among their citizens, and how those who will be able to look their lives of agricultural production from their hard work into their eyes. The bill almost calls for three keywords, centralisation, agencies, government. Yes, those words can be met very often in science fiction films where the wicked ruler of the poor regiment, with the help of some of the untouchable agencies of government. I don't think you're well-respected ministers. You are a soldier and must fulfill your ruler's duties. Unfortunately, such a horror will be an opportunity to watch it live and feel it on its skin when this law is published in the People's New Ones, and apparently it will be very soon because given the time gap between the first and the second readings, I felt that the proposer was really in a hurry with this unfortunate law. It may have hurried with this law for the reason that we have a very fast upcoming local elections, and aware of the fact that Plan 21 does not exist and that every day the ratings of the rulings are getting smaller, and the dissatisfaction of the citizens because of all the burdens they suffer is increasing, and they have already reconciled that they will not receive the expected results in the elections, but they cannot reconcile with the fact that they could lose so much dream power, and now they are centralizing and available to agricultural land. But let's go back to the final bill. It is already in Article 3(2) that there is a certain trap to be shown in other articles. Therefore, this paragraph 2 tells us that unprocessed forest land and land grew to the initial or degradation stages of forest ingredients, and it is suitable for agricultural production to be considered agricultural land. Thus, the land is determined by an all-powerful agency that appoints a commission composed of five members, namely agronomic, geodetic and legal professions. I can see that the legal profession is mentioned, but I don't see that the services of forest experts are used here. The whole article was written because the minister said less than 30% of state land was put into operation, causing an increase in areas under forests and vegetation. Now we come up with a related article that worries me most about possible abuses. In Article 43, paragraphs 5, 6 and 7, we are told that agricultural land which is not in a function of agricultural production or which is grown by a multi-year harvester is obliged to disembark at its own expense within two years from the date of introduction into possession, and that the wood mass which remains after the decommissioning of the agricultural land is available to the tenant. Since we know how wood mass is exploited today in the Republic of Croatia and a good part of this mass is exported from Croatia, wood-mass hunters are rubbing their hands out of luck with such an article of the law. Be assured that you will not have to wait two years for such land to be put into operation, but the question is whether the tenant will use it for agricultural production or just use it for wood mass and again such land remains out of service. In Article 23(5), it tells us that the funds achieved by land use change compensation are allocated, 70% of the funds are the income of the state budget, and 30% of the funds are the revenue of the local self-government units. We think this relationship should be 50-50. In Article 24.zacon, as a positive, we can estimate that it is prescribed that compensation for the reuse of agricultural land is no longer paid when the transport of infrastructures as well as facilities and devices for municipal infrastructure is built. However, as a negative estimate, the fee is paid when building buildings for the scientific activities of health care and welfare institutions whose founder is the Republic of Croatia, or whose founder is not the Republic of Croatia, which means that the said compensation will be paid by municipalities, cities, counties when they build those facilities, which previously puts them in a subordinate position compared to the Republic of Croatia, with the emphasis that such provision was not in the draft law. Therefore, we ask that those buildings do not pay compensation for the re-use of agricultural land regardless of who the investor is. In this article, too, we can see that the fee is not paid in the construction of a golf course. It is proposed to create conditions for starting investment in tourism. Furthermore, in Article 27, we see a continuation of further centralisation as the powers of local self-government units are lifted with regard to the availability of agricultural land owned by the state and are all transferred to the almighty Agricultural Land Agency. The reasoning of the legislator for these provisions is that because of the ineffectiveness of such a basis for availability so far, without respecting the fact that the units of local self-government once waited up to one year for the competent ministry to agree on the decision to choose, and sometimes more. The exclusion of cities and municipalities from the decision-making process as well as the whole process of implementation of the programme through the availability of state-owned agricultural land brought by representative bodies of local self-government units leads to even stronger centralisation and is contrary to the announced decentralisation. By abolishing the programme of available agricultural land-owned jobs, the Agricultural Land Agency shall take over. The question arises as to how many employees the agency will have to carry out land-owned procedures when in 10 years this has failed these units of local self-government. The number of 80 employees in the agency is mentioned. We don't think the agency is going to work the way this law is intended. In order to speed up the entire process of available agricultural land owned by the State, it was necessary to leave competences for local self-government units to carry out their own programmes, and that consent to the selection decision was granted by the agricultural land agency, not by the Ministry of Agriculture, which would certainly speed up the whole process. The proposed final draft of the law remains a large range of work in the responsibility of the Agency. The Agency shall, in addition to carrying out all procedures related to the availability of agricultural land owned by the State with the emphasis on all of it and taking data from local self-government units and the City of Zagreb on the application of agritechnical measures, data from local self-government units and the City of Zagreb on the application of measures for the management and maintenance of agricultural mines, annual employee reports on the achievement of the objectives of the economic programme. If we consider the number of units of local self-government, it is evident that there are a large number of documents that need only be received without talking about how long it takes to analyze them. However, if we add to this all the information from the tenants on the implementation of the economic programme that needs to be analysed because, under Article 38(4), subparagraph (c) failure to meet the objectives of the economic programme is the reason for the termination of the lease agreement. We come up with a large number of documents that require a large administrative device for carrying out jobs in accordance with the legal provisions. On its website, the Agency should publish a report on contracted leases and selecting the best bidder with an explanation: in Article 57(3), it is noted that the Agency submits an annual report to the Government. For reasons of transparency, this report should end up on the parliamentary benches. Article 29 of the final proposal of the Law also states that... for the lease and lease of ponds may be the holder of the OPG, cooperatives or cooperatives engaged in agricultural production. However, on the basis of the OPG status, it does not make any advantage, so the OPG has no priority over other bidders because the right of the championship is determined by the highest score, and in which the highest number of points is again carried by the economic programme. The economic programme has its components prescribed, and its evaluation plays a role as well as the professional preparation of call participants, the availability of the necessary mechanisms, in addition to other staff, the planned new employment, the innovation of planned production and the remaining elements. By observing the evaluation of the above elements, it is evident that a great advantage will come from the OPG. Whether the OPG in the economic plan will be able to name new employment, I don't believe, but I'm sure big businesses are gonna do it one way or another. Another very important item in the economic programme is the secured market for products intended to be produced. What does that mean specifically for the OPGs? Will they have to have contracted cooperative production to prove they have a secure market? This item also places them in an unbalanced position. We come to the disputed article 44 where the Final Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land is better than the draft bill, which refers to the return of some of the income from the availability of agricultural land owned by the state, the county and the amount of 10%. Although it is less than the current law, it is still progressing, due to the importance of these revenues for all Slavonian counties in whose area there are large areas of agricultural land, we demand an increase in the revenues of the counties to 25% and, accordingly, a reduction in revenues to local self-government units from 65% to 50%, as is the applicable law. Article 48 tells us about the temporary use of agricultural land and the fact that the agency can conclude a contract with natural and legal persons and with owners who have expired contracts on the lease of agricultural land and who are in peaceful possession of the same land and with owners who used agricultural land owned by a state without a contract and are in peaceful possession of the same. This article should also include users who used agricultural land owned by the State on the basis of certificates and are in peaceful possession of the same because such users regularly paid the rent on the basis of which they were extended contracts. With the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union from 1 July 2013, we will fully apply the European Union's rules and regulations in the area of support for agriculture. Legal use of agricultural land, as well as its size, will have the highest impact on the level of support that will be given to lasting support for each Croatian economy. Since the conditions for granting the right to pay for the entry of land in the ARCOD are at the latest on 15 May 2013, it is important to place that date in a legal function as large as possible areas of agricultural land owned by the State as well as private land as possible. After that, the date of the new area entered will most likely not be included in the calculation of the right to support. I'm not sure if the agency will be able to do such a short period of time as this. To conclude, the final draft of the law is somewhat better compared to the draft law in the first reading, but it still favours only centralisation and continues to put the OPGs on account of how to score the economic plan in an unequal and unenviable position and therefore the HDSB club cannot support such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34715	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34716	Thank you very much. Comrade Chesek, you have finally found this to be a better proposal, etc. It's this one in the first reading. However, this is a disaster for Croatian peasants and Croatian village in this form as we are presented. But I'll go back to what you asked yourself and you wondered how these people would return to their environments, to their places of high duty. You've seen what it's like recently when they get back into those areas. For example, Osijek, there were some people there, unemployed looking for their rights, employees, etc. They passed the beatings next to them, only the minister of the economy managed to say that they should pray to God, go to church and solve their problem. That's how it's gonna work out. There's no other solution. Because when we hear this explanation that what the Minister of the Ministry's staff is saying now is going to meet the economic programs, and then I guess this agency is going to evaluate it. I think it's really more that a man doesn't believe what we're up to here today. I guess that's normal. I don't think that's normal. And especially on the criteria that are written like this where it says, and I've been asking you all morning to tell me what the environmental impact is, who, what? Peasants? The tractor? How much is that worth? We don't know, but the main thing to write is that we're going to evaluate the impact on the environment and nobody knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34717	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34718	Yes, colleague Boric, you're absolutely right. The only thing left for us and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to pray to the dear God. He may be helpful to us, but I still think that in this material world he can't help us raise our standard, to raise our standard if he's promised in Plan 21. The only thing to come is the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34719	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, and for reminding me of the replica, I might forget, but thank you very much. Although I noticed a colleague of the Czechs thinking about the speed between the first and second readings. And in truth, it is impressive that speed, as was the speed in the adoption of the Minister's instructions of 12 January 2012, where it is told the units of local self-government municipalities, the cities are required to suspend all further activities in connection with the implementation of the provisions of the Law on Agricultural Land, etc. At your disposal. It's all there. So, and that was certainly the case, there could have been quite a lot of this country in function in a certain way. But I want to deny you that speed really and doesn't always have to be speed, it doesn't always have to be speed because Mr. Minister might be bringing this guidance. He spoke in the first quarter that he would place his own in position, that he would pass this law. It's been the first quarter. Here's four more, and now it's coming. But what's the point of all this? There's a problem. The point is that this year with this dynamic, with that speed lost for the Croatian agram, is lost because as long as all this is settled right and all certain actions until the corrections can not be ours, anyone that will not be able to achieve therefore certain and support and so on and of course not. Of course there's no means, so here's the speed thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34721	Thank you, colleague Milinkovic. It wasn't my intention to remind you, it was my intention not to make a mistake as chairman because I see you've been pushing the bat so far. We have no answer, comrade Chesek, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34722	I'm also very impressed with how certain decisions are made quickly. So we can freely assert that in this government the speed of virtue. Even they can hurry for 6 months, when a 5% VAT rate is to be introduced on bread, then we introduce it for 6 months than is required legally. When it is necessary to raise the VAT rate, we raise it, when it is necessary to collect gas, heat, raise it. So when you have to dispose of state land, first second reading, month, brief debate and the law passes. So in everything that's wrong, the government has speed and what should work on the economic plan and economic recovery there has speed, but the speed of the snail.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34723	Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here's a colleague of Buric's, or you'll proceed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34724	Thank you. And it's very interesting. They're following people what's going on. So, a colleague of the Czechs, speaking about the Agricultural Land Agency, you have indicated that something that is here by the vast majority of the representatives who are participating in the debate because the rulings are not taking part in the debate. They don't care, they'll only be interested in the vote on Friday. You've made a good point of what won't be feasible when this agency is involved. So many obligations on a small number of people. It is simply that all those who will work at the agency are capable as our Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic would not have been able to do so. Just like he's all capable. It's just inexhaustible. But something else has to be said. It's not just that high centralization that's a problem in this law. My colleague Baranovic seemed to mention that one of the preconditions for the survival of agriculture is the solution to the problem and the commission. That's right. But there's not enough emphasis on the legal issue. We funds from the EU, and you know it very well, will not be able to use it in cases where we do not have legalized facilities and under the existing law on the legalisation of these facilities that this government has adopted cannot address municipalities and cities. I can't handle it. They may give up their municipal contribution, counterpart Vinkovic said it remains a water contribution. But the only ones who will rub their hands under this law are some others. These are geodetics and architects, and because of their rubbing hands, our peasants, farmers will not be able to legalise the facilities and will be left without EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34725	Thank you. We have an answer from a colleague of the Czech Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34726	Yes, colleague Buric, at the beginning of the replica, you spoke about the agency. I am very critical of this agency not for the reasons that I have something against the agency itself but for the simple reason that I consider and a large majority of us here that this agency will not be able to carry out in time all of the activities that it has been ordered to do here in the 57th protection of agricultural land, land monitoring, land analysis, the management of a single database, the use of agricultural land, land transport, land circulation, participation in land planning procedures, the keeping of records of landowners, fishermen and employees of common pastures, co-operation with state bodies, institutions, units of regional self-government, monitoring and evaluation of the effects of various measures of agricultural policy and other policies on farming of agricultural land and other businesses in accordance with this law and the instruments of establishment. The interpretation of the law is mentioned by some 80 employees. I wish them this way that I wish them all good luck in their work, because they will probably need a lot of happiness and even more effort to do all the work that you have done in this article 57.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34727	Thank you. Next replica Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You were talking about all the important things that make it impossible for a peasant to acquire land under this law. It is a clear situation that everything that is through this law is in force here that the land belongs to the most powerful, the strongest. It's clear on the scene who wrote this law. We see who wrote by the director of the big company Mr. Kuterovac who sent his wife to the Ministry of Presentation is here with me. If you want to see it, I can mail it to you, so you'll see where it comes from. Here, look at her. These are facts about the circumstances of wanting to be large. This is what is certain of an eclutant conflict of interest in the Ministry of Agriculture. This is how he acted both before and during the agriculture ministers equally allows his associates. The same is the wife of a cattle food producer at the head of a service that consumes livestock food. This is Mrs. Tatjana Karačić whose husband is Veljko Karačić, director of the cattle food factory in Koprivnica. She's overseeing the inspectors who's watching him. Imagine the absurd. Imagine who's profiting here. Imagine who's going to get this land when these 16 items you've listed, we don't have a score or an appraisal of how someone's going to make it with 100 tractors of the same number of points because this poor guy with two tractors or one possible. How is he going to score the same number of points this one with a hundred employees or the one with 5, the whole family he has employed. Or who's going to do what's affecting the environment. If an environmental impact study waited to rent agricultural land, it would never have been obtained as probably a series of projects that were waiting precisely for these environmental impact studies. There's a rabbit in that bush. So everything is subordinated to the big ones who have, who can and with what capacities make programs and who can and can pay for what they need to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34729	Thank you. We have an answer from a colleague of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34730	That fellow Djakic, all this stuff you've brought out stands and can best be read from the skillfully hidden article 29. Which speaks of an economic plan or programme. All this bargaining of big ones is clearly written in the economic program. What is the meaning of the economic programme? The number of employees plans new employment, a secure market for products intended to produce, innovation of planned production and environmental impact. It is clear to all that the family holding will not be able to meet such an economic programme that it will be able to be filled by large companies that have employees, and in the first reading I also said food technologists and agronomists and chemical engineers and lawyers and economists. So small, family farms have no chance of being big and that's what this law is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34731	Thank you. And the last replica of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34732	You take this fellow Czech as a supplement. This should be one of the organic laws. So the law on which the future is based is not only the economy of the Republic of Croatia but also the future of Croatia, because it is really about Croatia's future, because agricultural land is one of the fundamental values of the Republic of Croatia along the forests, water, normal residents with HEP, Croatian insurance, etc. And certainly this law should go into reading. You remember a year ago, and a few days ago, there were four musketeers, where they were guests of Kukuriku, who raised their hands all happy, satisfied. Of those four musketeers now two missing. But here one party of the coalition will not vote for this law and that is a political issue. When that property tax comes, then the HNS probably won't vote, and then a little, come on, the national minorities will vote, etc. The HSU club doesn't care about this at all, they don't care about it. They're just interested in little pensioners wanting 10 kunas more or 10 kunas less and that's it. What kind of coalition is that? All over the portals, even Prime Minister Milanovic is in favour of early elections. We're for early elections, because this is a breakup, this law is for the coalition to fall apart. He's resigning to save Croatia, and he's also giving himself away so that he doesn't crack your shell around your stomach or your head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34733	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club Marija Vukbratović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34734	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Agricultural Land has given rise to a great public interest. I hope this means that the citizens of Croatia, not just the soil, are considered to be of special interest. It is a national treasure, but also a conditional non-renewable natural resource that requires special care and protection. The importance given to agricultural land must be at least equal to that obtained by Croatian waters or Croatian forests, by me and greater because our waters are just as high-quality thanks to unpolluted and preserved soil. The basic prerequisite for the design and implementation of the land policy is, above all, the correct record of the agricultural areas with which we have, which Croatia unfortunately does not have. This leads to the crucial importance of establishing and developing the information system that this law provides. It is also important to have good functioning of the agency whose work should speed up the overall availability processes for agricultural land. Furthermore, the law defines how agricultural land is monitored. This is extremely important because so far the leased land has been exploited in some cases, not used and maintained, and signs of soil degradation have already been observed. Mandatory soil analysis will contribute to the control of the poverty process, and the creation of a database will help to plan and create a strategy for development and improvement of production, and will also be able to be used for scientific purposes. The implementation of this law is expected to begin the process of rounding up agricultural economies most economies have small total surfaces, but is an even bigger problem in their excessive delicacy. Modern technology cannot be used on such surfaces, and with great expertise it is not possible to achieve economically competitive production. The law further provides the Agency with the possibility to launch and replace procedures, and this measure should contribute to faster and simpler circulation. On the other hand, the state agricultural land that can be used to form a core of agricultural holdings that can have a long-term perspective in terms of land resources was used by the basis of a programme of agricultural land available in the possession of the state that brought units of local self-government. As we have heard, some municipalities and cities have not yet developed their own programme and the application of the law in practice has not been expected to be effective, so the fertile soil has partly remained abandoned and healed in chicare. Because of this inefficient state-owned system, the agency is taking over. The law prescribes a simpler model that will speed up processes and put as much state land as possible into operation as possible. This model also enables the land that is rounded and partially decorated to be preserved and protected from depletion and further devastation. The Law on Agricultural Land has given rise to great interest both in the Croatian Parliament and in the first reading, and now. After almost two days more precisely one and a half days of discussion, many constructive remarks and suggestions were made. We now have a final bill that has seen changes from the first to the second reading that I will particularly look forward to and which we consider to have contributed significantly to its improvement. The law defines what funds can be spent on a fee for changing the purpose of the income of the state budget and the budget of the units of local self-government, i.e. the city of Zagreb. According to the ministry's assessment, five and a half million kuna will be able to spend only on rounding, bringing in functions, increasing the value of agricultural land and addressing land-based and cadastrian conditions. Therefore, it is the sectors that are the most unsettled, which can significantly contribute to increasing the competitiveness of agricultural production. In doing so, units of local self-government are required to submit a report to the competent ministry on the use of these funds, which is a good control mechanism. The fee for changing the purpose of agricultural land will not be paid in the construction of transport infrastructure and in the construction of buildings and utility infrastructures, while the bill exempts only public road construction from payment. This provision will facilitate the development of infrastructure in local communities, and this is particularly important for rural areas. It is specified that the construction of buildings for scientific and educational activities of health care and social care, whose founder of the Republic of Croatia is exempt from payment of compensation. The call for lease shall be made for cadastral particles which make up the production-technological units but of a maximum area of up to 100 ha. This opens up the possibility for more interested persons to receive land for hire. It also accepted a proposal by a large number of MPs to increase the number of representatives of local self-government units in the Employment Decision Committee. So now, instead of one representative of the local self-government in the Committee, two of which are designated by one by the representative body and the other by the executive body of local self-government. This clearly defines who decides on representatives of local self-government units and thus prevents any political abuse of land allocation if there are different political options in representative and executive authorities. However, I would personally be more pleased that the law states that part of the committee or at least the president should be agricultural professions although I allow it to be understood that the representatives of the agency will be. We welcome the decision that calls for leases can be made by family farms and cooperatives, making the number of participants more detailed and extended. The SDP also advocated a precise definition of the case where it is possible to change the economic programme. Under the draft law, this will only be possible in the event of a rise in profitability in its implementation. Furthermore, it is possible to change the programme only after 10 years. This will prevent possible speculation in the implementation of the programme itself. The allocation of funds obtained from the lease, sale and making use of without a public call has been changed in favour of units of local self-government in whose area agricultural land is located. The funds are shared in a way that the share of local self-government units is increased to 65%, 10% will be the income of the unit of regional and local self-government and 25% of the revenues of the state budget. The resources achieved can only be spent in various forms of land planning and improving agricultural production, which the SDP club considers to be a good solution. It is limited to the size of parcels that can be sold by direct contract to one hectare in the continental region, i.e. 0.2 hectare in the Adriatic region. This takes note of the comments of the Committee on Agriculture and Representatives who expressed concern that the non-limitation of the area could benefit large and economically strong systems. Once again, I would like to emphasise what I said and in the debate on the occasion of first reading and debate on the law, most of the European countries with advanced agriculture as we wish have have long resolved the issue of land regulation. It's about time we did the same thing. Furthermore, anything that contributes to the increase and better use of agricultural areas and environments, and prevents the atomisation of parcels, is good. It is necessary to create conditions that will stimulate regulation and investment in land. I believe this law contributes to it, and that is why the SDP club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34735	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. The first one was Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34736	Thank you. So here, Madam Representative, you have mentioned in the initial part of your exposure the problem of defining the scope of agricultural land and how it is still unclear how much agricultural land there really is in the Republic of Croatia and that further information is needed in order to finally define these data. Well, let me remind you that without information, Austro-Hungarians knew very well that there are 2.4 million hectares of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia in today's Republic of Croatia, it was during the period of Austro-Hungarian times, and we don't know yet, and we need more information to maybe find out how much there is. Also, you can see how many of our negotiators negotiated exactly the defined scope of agricultural land so that the accession contract lacks 300 and a few thousand hectares and at that time of agricultural land which has already been processed and which has not entered into what has been negotiated, which is also worrying, and in the end that we are asking ourselves today that we do not even know how much of the state land of agriculture, let alone how much of it has come together after 23 years of the existence of the Republic of Croatia as an independent state. And secondly, here and in this case, centralised is actually happening. Now, is the ruling coalition's policy centralised or not? Because here we have, here it's not about taking responsibility, it's about centralization. Taking those functions that the local administration units had in the decision-making and transfer process. It's not called taking responsibility. It's called centralization. After fiscal centralisation, after centralisation of these administrative regions, centralisation of decisions on state agricultural land comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34737	We have an answer, colleague Vukbratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34738	So here's a respected colleague of the local self-government unit and the decentralised units had their chance. They obviously didn't use it and they didn't do what they were supposed to do. The registration of the entire agricultural land in one place, the creation of a database and the possibility of use, or the registration of the use of agricultural land from one place, I do not know what kind of special centralization it is, since it will not be the agency that will lead the country somewhere. This country will continue to be used but for those who can and know how to use it in the best, best-quality way so that we can finally produce enough food for our needs and what we are able to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34739	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's colleague Vukbratovic, you said this law would contribute to the development of agriculture, that everything would be much better, more beautiful, that so far the local self-government units didn't know what to do with the land and how to do. You forgot that Mr. Minister, with his decision a year ago, banned the availability of state agricultural land and that a lot of hectares of land would be disposed of in that time of year. That's the first thing. Second thing, you're saying what kind of centralization this is? Very rough. It's a violation of local self-government, it's the opposite of decentralisation for which the Kukuriku coalition has advocated and written in its programs. The only thing I'm reading about is the fact that you've obviously set off to disassemble the county in view of the distribution of funds within, from the lease of land. But I ask you a question, since you work in an extremely old and valuable facility at the High Economic University in Križevci, where the children of our agricultural producers from the OPG are schooled, where we had a permanent strategy to get them back from school to their households, Mrs Vukbratovic. By raising your hand for this law, you and your colleagues may be shutting down jobs at the High Economic University in the Križevci, who are you going to train when the OPGs are gone?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34741	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Vukbratovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34742	Dear colleague Hrg, I'm not afraid of what you said absolutely because the people we're studying and we're still going to be studying will be back to their OPGs the only problem is that the OPGs won't be able to work and most of the OPGs won't be able to do what they're doing right now. They must change their way of thinking, their production structure, to more profitable productions which are therefore more perspective for these small family economies and which are more appropriate. Therefore, we are not going to lose our jobs, but we will have even more work to do because our agricultural producers, the OPG bearers, will have to continue to study, continue to be trendy and to deal with so-called. A lifetime of education that's been talked about a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34743	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34744	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vukbratović, you said that this law has instigated a great public interest, of course we are here in the Croatian Parliament and that it should be given meaning, but it should be given importance for those working on that country, who have worked hard on the most difficult times and the most difficult circumstances and created and worked. But today, unfortunately, and with this law, they're in an unequal position, and everyone here has agreed they can't compete with the big one. Furthermore, you also talked about that part of agritechnical, let's say in some ways you touched those agrotechnical measures where it is said in Article 4: "Yes, agritechnical measures, in that fourth paragraph the minister responsible for agriculture rules." Namely, I doubt, for sure, our family farmers in these circumstances are already on their knees, when they need to get those vouchers that are now, either getting or not, so there's a variety of information from the field, they have to pay 30% more expensive artificial fertilisers and everyone else that they can't. Unfortunately, that cattleman over there in the constituency that we're coming from, because from there is the biggest pool, so to speak, cattle, he can't do this, and there's an inequality again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34745	Thank you, too. We have the next replica from the post of colleague Blažekovica, a colleague of Vinkovic answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34746	An esteemed colleague is all this is folk property with the help of restoring this assembly and Croatian emigrants from all over the world, but here I am not raising the whole club, so I took this as a right, I hope my colleague won't be angry. Dear colleagues, all the authorities were, during all these years, the first thing they entered was the amendments to the laws on agriculture and on agricultural land. And every one of those laws led to the fact that the situation in agriculture was getting worse and worse. As for the payment of incentives, the support, and I'm not accusing these family economies, maybe individuals were buying Jeeps, but what were agricultural inspectors doing, an inspection that was supposed to first look at the flow of money? We're talking about the absence of a database, so there's a database for 1742 new cars, which is luxurious, which is delivery, which is freight. How is there a database? And finally, since you spoke on behalf of the SDP club, I am asking one and a political question in this replica, which is with the coalition, the Kukuriku coalition, which is with the view of the IDS member and the Kukuriku coalition that they will not support this law, and this law should be organically and should be adopted primarily by consensus of all political parties in the Republic because it is the interest and family economies and also large producers. I don't share them in small or large. As you'll explain it to the citizens of Istria, you voted for the Kukurik coalition and we don't care what the IDS thinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34747	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Vukbratovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34748	So esteemed colleague Vinkovići, the question that you have referred to me regarding the lack or non-implementation of the strategy, with the reluctant inspection, with the absence of a database, of the absence of records that you have sent to the wrong address. I can't answer that question, why in the last 20 years it hasn't been done, that, the answer to that question I can't give you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34749	My friend Vinkovic, you didn't get the word. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34750	You're talking about the unhappiness of inspections that have done so far. And as for the coalition, so let your colleague Vinkovic do it to the parties in the coalition to decide what to do and how to do it, it shouldn't be your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34751	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34752	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you spoke of how you were convinced that the basis of this law would make it more efficient to distribute or make available to state land and that units of local self-government had an opportunity that they did not take advantage of. And I just can't figure out why all the time, you don't want to understand, you don't want to understand that the reasons for being solved just 30% so far as it's always pointed out lie not in the inadequacy and ineffectiveness of the local self-government units that have been relatively quick to solve a large number of demands, but in the competent ministry where the items per year and a half have been in drawers. And now they need to get rid of those people who didn't handle it while they were inside the ministry, but now they're going to be a separate public institution of the Agricultural Land Agency. And then when they look at all the obligations they have, which makes them 13 types of different activities in Article 57, of species. There is no way that they can make two out of those 13, plus then every unit of local self-government must provide them with an annual report on the application of the prescribed measures to agritechnical measures. So according to article 12 of the municipalities and cities, they have to submit an annual report for agricultural ores, and then there is no way that it is 20, 80, 380 that they will not be able to solve them. And you're still convinced that this way of making land availability decisions will be better than the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34753	Thank you. We have a reply from colleague Vukbratovic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34754	I'm sure this law will solve it better, and we need to do better because we don't really have any other options. And as for the agencies, I don't know what security you're talking to that way about how the agency will or won't be able to do anything, that you and the rest of us don't have. The thing is, the agency needs to be organised and the agency needs to start again once more, finally doing what its original purpose was. And if she doesn't succeed in doing her jobs, if she doesn't do what needs to be done, we'll always have the opportunity to criticise her, looking for any changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34755	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Danesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34756	Thank you very much. Vice-Presidents, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to engage with a few words in this debate because I am really relatively close to this problem, I have some experience and I may be at the helm of one of the municipalities that has the highest number of hectares of quality ornaments in the area of the Republic of Croatia. There were different data here on total surfaces, in the municipality where I am the chief has nearly 20,000 acres of quality oracles. From the content of the law I have tried in some way to focus this problem primarily to say a few words about the role of the agency because it should practically replace local self-government. Then allow me to discuss it a little bit now, or speak from the point of view of the head of the municipality, not perhaps the president of the Association of Farmers. The question of determining the height of the lease, that was not what this was about, and that is very important for local self-government. The second moment is to establish or adopt all the following regulations, and probably this debate would be very different in substance if we had, by some case, what is legal and impossible today, on the benches of the concept of these documents that need to be adopted by the Government Regulation, something of the Minister, something of the Commission. That content if we had the opportunity to see it probably would have gone in some other direction. And we finally have to say in one sentence a little bit of a grudge about this argument on the observations put forward. In many of these comments, the argument was very simply found to be that the applicant was identified, without any more detailed clarifications, probably the applicant had arguments but unfortunately it was not written. Very short to go in a certain order with concrete articles of this law as the Vice President said this morning. I'll start with Article 27. Under point 1, it's a 50-year period. A farmer, a farmer, told me a little in a joke that it's too long for wheat and corn, and probably if someone plans to plant an oak it's short. So it's this much relative. The same limit of 100 hectares for Lika and Dalmatian Zagora and perhaps hilly areas is indeed ok, but for part of Slavonia and Baranja I think it will be a problem, precisely for those great for the pro-pulsant. I don't mean now the heirs of the former combinations, but those who are truly ambitious, that this line will be low. As far as the agency is concerned, I think from this Article 28, a little bit, but considering the real situation on the ground, the agency will do part of the job of what I would say would be more attractive to decide on fundamentally some issues while the operational part of the good part will remain on local self-government. Here he wrote it nicely, the local unit, the local self-governments supply the agency with a request for registration, the necessary documentation, etc., etc. I'm afraid the agency will take care of everything that's so administrative, not to say bureaucratically, to leave it to local self-government. As far as Article 29 is concerned, there have already been a lot of words here, and that is actually the essence of the content of this law, how it will decide on the content of this programme. The programme brings together 60 points where there have been a lot of debates and a lot of critical tones, but here in point 8 says: the pattern is the way in which the economic programme is evaluated in terms of determining the value and weight of a single component by the regulation is prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That regulation and now that we have before us to see how some of these moments indicated here will be valued, that would be very, very precious to me. I suggest it to Mr. Secretary. There would be no burning here to add one formulation that this regulation would, in my opinion, be instructed to consider before the adoption of the Committee on Agriculture of this Parliament and the Committee on Local Self-Government. It's a little bit of a suggestion, because it's one of the key moments for me. Article 30 discusses the total number of points and how these are divided, these 100 points. Mr. Minister, I have to tell you that I have received a notice and a written conclusion from an association called the Baranski Bred, where they told me that it was agreed that this program would carry 40 points, not 60. I have an obligation to tell it, and they told me it was harmonised, agreed at Ministry level, so now I'm surprised when I read that it wasn't 40, it was 60. Furthermore, as regards Article 32, there is also an interesting formulation in point 6 here, says: the agency may conclude an annex to the lease and lease contract for fish ponds, etc. in the case of a justified need to amend an economic programme conditioned by raising profitability, implementing an economic programme after a period of 10 years. I think that's okay, but I don't know why it's been 10 years. That I don't think should be 10 years, not such a long time. The term of the lease is further discussed in Article 34, as the deadline is mentioned in June of the month. I think we'd know when they reach the farmers' incomes after the harvest, not to mention before the end of the year in the fall, I think that deadline would be directed to move somewhere by the 10th, 11th month. There's a small number of them who can pay for it in that time frame. Whether the lease agreement is listed here in Article 38 is broken down if the tenant and under point e) says that the leased land is in the sublet. It is a very big problem in the field at all to prove when this sublet is because here it may be illustrated, it may be some gentleman from Osijek or from Đakov or from Brod or Zagreb, that he has 100 acres or 50 hectares in Slavonia or Baranja, he managed to buy it, obviously he can't but someone does it. It's usually a sublet, and that should say more precisely when it's considered to be a sublet and how it can be proven. Now, the most important moment for me is about value assessment, or lease height. It is also decided by the Minister's rules. I have something concrete to point out and the revaluation of that lease in a certain period because where local self-government is around 7,000 hectares in the lease, it doesn't matter what the lease is. At present, this lease is almost not 1/3 or 1/4 of the market value of that lease. In this respect, I must also point out the example of my municipalities now that this lease is set according to market opportunities then the budget of the municipality, as well as the budget of the state, would profit somewhere for at least 3 million kuna, and that is not small money for such a rural environment. I often go from a certain assumption that for us there this quality oran is almost the same as for the coast and for Dalmatia the Blue Adriatic and I don't know what the mayors or mayors of the municipalities would say if the state or someone limited the number of tourists on a particular beach around those places, because we are now in such a position that we have only 1/3 of what is truly market value from that fertile oran. I have to, I would do an injustice not to point out and I don't thank and don't praise the combination of Belje and Agrokor which are the biggest concessionaries and show understanding of the local community and we solve certain problems, and they are aware of the value of that area they use and show regular understanding every year. But if that doesn't happen then we'll have very, very big problems. This relationship of distribution 65 local self-government, 10 Republic of Croatia or budget and 25 counties I think there is, or vice versa 10 and 25 I think it should have kept the county as it has been so far because we have joint projects, joint actions and counties really very much supported and our actions and the development of practically these certain activities related to agriculture and these coins are coming back. I have to point out here in the end the next moment. Article 56(3) reads as follows: "The agencies can set up branches." I also said in that first debate that they should set it up, not that they can. Because if it is really going to be as centralized as that AUDI has state property and everything will be settled in Zagreb and not down in the field in Osijek, and even in the White monastery if it could be happy. Then it'll be a very, very big problem. Therefore, not that they can, but that they form. And now that's what we're talking about, we're talking about employees. These materials say if there's no reason to suspect that there are 17 employees in the agency, the Office for the Ground 23 who should cross and need a new 43. That's a total of 83. I must tell you if these jobs are taken over from the municipality, from local self-government if it would be of course in Zagreb it is more difficult to solve in Osijek then from local self-government you should also take a number of workers who have done so. That would be perfectly logical to fill in like that. Because so far, I have to stress it out and tell us in the Prince's Vineyards we sold in 4 circles of 2200 ha. We made 131 contracts with 141 buyers and, of course, we follow, we charge, and that's one job. No, kid. If that goes over for the agency, then the clerk should go over. I can also point out that we had four objections that were rejected and we had no problem with the sale. I simply cannot understand that some municipalities, especially not in Slavonia, have failed to realize. Now we've got these citizens in an unequal position as far as it's concerned because they don't have a chance to buy anymore, and here we are, lucky for us, we did it. And finally, that's what I'm gonna end up with. I have tried to list here all the institutions that take care of these farmers, from the Ministry of Agriculture, the agricultural chamber, the Agriculture and Food Centre, the Agency for Agriculture within the Ministry or is a special institution, the paying agency in agriculture, the Office for the Land is also related to agriculture, advisory services down on the ground and they are for farmers, various professional associations of cattlemen, winemakers, etc. And I finally checked in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce also has a referendum or a man who cares about agriculture That means it's nine different institutions. [[Thank you very much. Lock down your colleague Shaw. Time's up.]] So I can be without worry there's a lot of red tape taking care of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34757	Replica has a colleague named Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34758	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shoja, I didn't get it right if it was ironic or for real, that local self-government units still had a lot of jobs, a lot of powers and jobs left under this law. Yes, indeed, they're left to collect documentation, to file a request to the agency, so if they don't do the job, then the party that's interested will do it. So, they have jobs left, and so much is the ministry and the promoter taking care of the units of local self-government that they've even prescribed to them exactly 65% of their lease incomes that belong to them have prescribed what they're going to do with that money. So they can only use it for those in the state jurisdiction. For example, for the programmes of cadastar-geoedetic land measurements, for the construction of land books, and now imagine the state says of this rent income 25% will remain state. My proposal has not been accepted to establish that these 25% will be used for the development of agriculture, so on land-booking, etc. because it is said that it is not necessary to tell the state in the budget what it will do with it. But certainly the local self-government unit of those 65% must be ordered exactly what it will benefit from. Among them, they will also have to use it for matters in the jurisdiction of the state. I repeat the cadastar-geoedetic measurement, land, land-based state-of-the-art, comassation, hydromelioration, conservation of biodiversity, etc. etc. co-financing in agriculture and aqua culture. Therefore, it is a great concern and concern that local units are determined to do something, but that it is certainly careful that in this committee they decide and make decisions they remain with two proposed members in relation to five totals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34759	Thank you very much. Please, colleagues, take care of the weather. Thank you very much. The answer to Denesh Shaw's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34760	I am deeply convinced that all technical work will be done normally down on the ground and delivered to the agency. So I pointed out that he would like to be in Osijek not in Zagreb, even more if he were in the White monastery, right? And as for these 65%, what is the largest part that belongs to local self-government and so far in accordance with the legal rules, these are the largest funds we spend on fixing the canal network, the travel network and everything else related to agricultural land, i.e. to edit the parcels and these activities, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34761	Replica, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34762	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Shaw's you mentioned that members of some agricultural association as I understand it said that as far as the economic programme is concerned, it will weigh 40%, not 60% as it says in the bill. so I'm replicating you precisely for that reason why I would ask the Minister later on to be in his own when he's manifested himself in these replicas and in these individual discussions to tell us exactly what it was actually agreed with these associations and what the conversation looked like in the Ministry of Agriculture. In fact, we often and too often witness that we have obviously some communication noises, negotiations happen, talks between the ministry and farmers' associations, and then from the Association of Farmers, citizens get one piece of information that talks have been reached, and from the Ministry of Agriculture other information. So here's the minister and on the trail of this replica that fellow Shoja once again here's a plea of prayer later and you're asked for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34763	Replication response, Danesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34764	My colleagues very briefly, I can only repeat that I have really received such information and a request that such an agreement has been reached. I would personally support it, and the details can't say, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34765	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34766	Thank you. Dear colleague Shoja, I am pleased that you have pointed out precisely about this distribution of funds and that position of our club. In part, it was accepted, and the counties returned 10% to the original proposal. But here's a good thing that Mr. Minister is here. By reducing from 25 to 10%, the existing projects carried out by the county will indeed be compromised. In fact, we've also taken on certain obligations. I'll only tell you when it comes to Osijek-Baranja County. These funds are really spent on improving soil productivity, so soil analysis programs, channel network editing, irrigation and here's a characteristic geodetic-catastrian measurement. So, in the period since 2003, so far, a total of 25,000 hectares have been measured, with 30 million kunas spent and 33% co-financed for the implementation of these geodetic-catastrian measurements, one third. She signed a contract counting on these 25% of the funds. By reducing to 10%, there will be no reserve in the original funds, so there will be a question of the possibility of implementation and what we have with the state, together with the ministry, we started projects and measurements. So if the state has already given up on those to move the state budget 25 to 50, it's logical to keep 25% of the county. So we're going to make an amendment, we're going to appeal to the ministry to accept it because some units, and here I'm glad that fellow Soja agrees, and by the definition of the county, they're regional developmentists in their field, and together with local self-government units, they're also working on realising development projects in agriculture. Local self-government units have also pointed out that only the county can be the bearers, i.e. coordinators of large joint projects in agriculture. So the state won't lose anything just to redistribute these 10 to the 25 and it'll be okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34767	Thank you very much. Replication response, Danesh Shaw. My colleagues and colleagues once again please two minutes is a replica, look on the screen when the time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34768	I would now only supplement so much that we have 4 or 5 serious programs along with Osijek-Baranja County but also with other partners who share in the financing. There are also certain infrastructures that are of greater value. And I think that part that's going to waste in the county is going to be problematic and questionable. And that's why it would really be justified to make it happen through the county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34769	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34770	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Buric actually said the same thing I noticed. And I'm glad to see that you've emphasized this importance of the county. I think that the county deserves it and they are indeed and of course and you warned of this moment that it could have been and that it would have been good if it had been a larger amount, even though it was 10%. But it is certainly good to repeat that, therefore, programmes in livestock and plant production have been financed, as well as in cadastar scales, etc. Not to mention all those programs that were already spoken of. So here I want to say just as commendably now in this current moment of legalisation that my County of Koprivnica-Crissy is also willing to participate in this insurmountable problem for our farmers and our farmers have always come across the open door in the counties. And even now, under the circumstances of EU accession, there will certainly be plenty of room so that more funding is certainly needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34771	The answer to the replica? There isn't. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in line is a colleague of Walter Boluncic's. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34772	Good afternoon. Here I would, as I had before a replica, start with the work of the law, which among other things lists the reasons why the law is passed. The reasons are quite important for the promoter, which wants to be quickly placed in the agricultural land. However, once again, I think this proposal contradicts that, namely, the programmes already exist in most local communities. So as much as I could count about 400 there are 500 of them and something, 74, 75 has no land at all, 75 of them didn't give it up. Furthermore, a year ago in the 1st month, it was instructed to interrupt the implementation of the programme, which means we can't say that it was the reason why it was so late. I also believe that until now it has been seen that giving consent to the agriculture ministry's programmes has been a leap of throat, and especially now the agency will be a narrow throat that can solve all this. Secondly, the remarks we had today on behalf of the club, and I will now make, among other things, the remarks that were made yesterday and at a meeting of farmers and this was made by representatives of small agricultural family economies, co-operatives in Vodnjan and one major remark was the setting of a programme out of force. These programmes, which are put out of effect above all, have been invested even in years of effort, because geodetic measurements have been carried out, it has been seen that this agricultural land is owned by the state, the ministry's consent has been obtained. But what's also important in these programs, especially the limit that an individual in the field of local self-government can borrow. So I note, as I said earlier than a 400 acres, say near Pula Vodnjan, there were over 300 people and about 300 people who had rented it, or family economies. We, of course, agree on behalf of the club that where she stood... that there must be a lease, so a long lease but that the effort invested in the programmes is not wasted and, among other things, to limit the amount that can be taken by a particular tenant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second observation, of course, refers to the fact that this process, in the course of the implementation tender, allows the Agency to kill itself to determine this on its own because the ratio is 3:2. We think they're going into decentralisation, and at all levels, they should remain within the local self-government units as they have so far. We think that this kind of complete centralization will in no way contribute to better lording agricultural land. The next very important point is how to rent land. Under this 100-point law, 60 points are being obtained on the economic programme. An economic programme that would have already been listed several times today. Among other things, we have business from previous periods, a business plan where goods can be placed, technical and technological characteristics, machines that are held, even professionally prepared. I think it's for, especially in Istria, for small family economies that are unacceptable because it's small parcels where most olive groves and vineyards are processed. However, it is also impossible to have a large machine, and in the end I think that almost everyone, so the small family economies of the OPG that are now located or can be owned, will simply be on that list beneath the big ones who can with their entire team, with their money that has a much larger amount of points. We believe that this article should be fully amended, so that whoever has the right to lease agricultural land should be entitled first to have the right of holders of the CAP who exercise the right to work on agriculture and who are from the area of that unit of local self-government. Then those OPGs that have additional work but are from the area of that unit of local self-government, then agricultural cooperatives from the unit of local self-government that makes that call and afterwards natural persons from that unit of local self-government and everyone else. In this way, I think that we would be protected, so the family economies in agriculture in the area of units of local self-government, and that would make a significant contribution to raising agriculture even higher. It is clear to me that in some other areas you want to build up land and you may want to have a large production, but in that case you should have 2 laws, as we have the Law on craftsmanship for small craftsmen and the Law for large ones, so perhaps you should have taken parts of the land of the agricultural state, some larger area and put them in a tender where the conditions only great food performers could come. This way in one, so you put the competition unfairly both small and large. So you could have defined certain areas and said these are areas for economies that are large and we see a competition for large economies. I'm telling us in Istria, and I mean on the coast with small plots that's not good at all. Furthermore, the following remark refers to money. We believe that half must remain a unit of local self-government, 25% of the state, 25% of the county, and in both ways, either of the rentals. What I said today was on one replica, since 95th in Istria, a fund for the development of agriculture was set up one of the sources of money was just the ones that were obtained and with some incentives from others who gave, both the county and the cities, there were gathered around the thought of 40 million who were an incentive to develop exactly family economies. And I say by turning that money, loans and of course returns we can talk about already one figure from these years from 95 to today, about 120 million kunas that must have been a very big incentive for the development of all these economies either in the production of wine, the production of olives, not only that, there are other productions, there are also livestock production, milk, cereals and other productions in Istria. As I said before, I think the county and local communities are very important with these incentives in production, that it's one of... So that's what family economies have to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Further, let's say a clean and technical remark if it stands here that farmers who take the land they grow would have to deliver a bank guarantee to the agency at the cost of removing supervisory and... We consider it unnecessary for many years because at that point, the question of whether they can get it and what would be the cost. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The tenants will thus have to recognise the investments that are given, must be recognised by costs in a way that may reduce his lease. And of course when we got to the lease what was said today. It states here that the Minister will prescribe the basis of the law by regulation of the initial price, etc. In Istria, these prices were always more expensive than elsewhere. And not only were they more expensive than on the other side of the land in Istria because they were small surfaces, dry walls, etc. It also required much greater effort and much higher labour costs, and thus these people were placed in an unfavourable position. We believe that this should be taken into account and that these initial prices should be reduced. Furthermore, I believe that the central part of this law is essentially a question of whether to centralise or decentralise the availability of state agricultural land. I today think that centralisation is the right direction to go and that it will, as it has so far, produce results in Istria in the future. This will create one plug, a narrow throat, and will allow large manufacturers to reach large surfaces at the expense of small ones. And look at what we talked about yesterday in the election of a new minister and a certain offer of wine, olives,... so the production of both sheep's cheese and other which prosciutto as an Istrian brand which has been put into question in some way will question whether we will still be interesting to foreigners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I'd just like to talk to maybe those souls who care about Kukurik and the IDS attitudes. We've already announced several times. You don't always have to think the way it's shown somewhere that it is. The IDS is a party that wants to contribute to constructive proposals. We are a party that believes that decentralisation and regional development is a condition of development by any particular entry into the EU and, as was said yesterday, there is no shooting of stitches as said by the Prime Minister and our president, there is no going out or anything else. We simply want by our contribution as the most developed region in Croatia that has done so primarily by work, and IDS has the honour and pleasure of being chosen by Istrian citizens, means that it still means something to them. Surely he can make this one contribution because as we have said and said many of them that Croatia should look more like Istria and today forget and believe that what he said yesterday was more... One more time of mine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise we just wanted to say there were even 20 amendments, but we actually saw that it might be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34773	Thank you very much. You've got replicas, so you'll continue. A colleague Drazen Đurović is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34774	Thank you. Well, here you are, Mr. Boluncic, representing, in fact, IDS or Istrian farmers exactly on the trail of what we as HDSSB represent representing Slavonian farmers because, in their observation, they are very similar problems and that is the problem of how to preserve people's lives and that these people stay alive in that village. We also agree on the issue of centralisation, i.e. that decentralisation cannot be carried out only as a declaration, as a wish but decentralisation and in decision-making if we do not already have fiscal decentralisation. Therefore, some bad practice that appeared in a municipality or city that could be sanctioned cannot be an excuse for the decision-making process to be completely centralized. And third, when it comes to the functioning of the Internal Ministry of Agriculture Agency, we have one very bad practice and with the functioning of the paying agency in agriculture where there are countless objections and in its business and how it will only be in business when such a single state agency is formed. For example, we have, I have now received a letter from the Association of Symental Beef Breeders Požega meaning which complains and simply is denied in the payments of incentives, cut off, cut off in the account, and that these calculations are not transparent, that there are no items shown which are calculated, in which way one producer of 88 ha that deals with livestock farming and manufactures, instead of the planned 125 thousand kuna he should receive, plus modulation of 55 thousand 700 kuna without elaborated items doesn't even know why he is actually cut off because it comes out somewhere around 640 kuna per hectare of oranica, while he deals with cattle production of milk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34775	Thank you very much. Replication response, Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34776	So probably the problems that agriculture has all over the world because they wouldn't have food prices all over the world go up, but once again I say maybe one of the ways we can save from one side small farmers, on the other hand on certain surfaces there's a farm that gives high yields, to just say, to set some places, some larger areas for which little ones can't even compete in madness and to say these are where we'll now have like we had bulls once. But in this way, when a condition is moved as far as anyone can take and the main conditions of preparation are professionally further, I think the small family economies on which an offer of a region like Istria is based will come into question. That's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34777	And Giovanni Sponza replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34778	I'd like to refer to Mr. Boluncic's intervention and say a few things. Why the IDS in its proposal for a final law insists on agricultural land to protect small family economies, for the very reason that in Istria the vast majority of production is achieved by small OPGs. Secondly, the IDS has not started decentralisation or the Kukuriku coalition but has been behind it for more than two decades. In my first intervention in the first proposal to read the law, I was suggesting that we should seek consensus on all policy options because only consensus guarantees the enforceability of this law. And about that, I would like to refer to the following, the day before yesterday at the County Assembly, or at the Istria County Assembly, where both the SDP and the Greens, and HSU, both HNS and Ladonja and IDS and HDZ all unanimously adopted and reached a conclusion and a decision on the interpretation that this country needs decentralisation. Therefore, it is only a confirmation that these people who live daily in contact with their fellow citizens simply understand the subject and the problem. Almost all policy options except the SDP today did not talk about the necessary decentralisation, and we all call for consensus to support that the agency is going down to local self-government units and protect small OPG by leaving a programme for agricultural land and that otherwise what Boluncic had said before simply contaminate the score of the economic programme and the dispute in nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34779	The answer to the replica of Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34780	... The end, then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The idea is that from the area of units of local self-government, the OPGs that live out of it have the advantage. In case two such have the same right in which case the economic programme comes as additional points which of them will give better. So the economic programme should be known but not in a way that's primarily. This way I say one more big one will get, and while the kid's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34781	We're continuing the debate of my colleague, Gyurjica Sumrak, it's her turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34782	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here it is from this morning we said a lot and said it. There were things that were really reasoned and really dealt with different unargumented things, but that's for things that have no other solution then come to terms with unargumented facts. I'm going to say a few words today about this bill. Of course, I'll say in advance, as said in front of our club, that we simply can't support this. We can't because it's really not even an affirmative law, it's not reform law, and it's not bogey or strategic. Croatian agriculture is made up of agricultural holdings which are registered in the register of agricultural holdings. 78% of those registered have a surface area of less than 5 hectares, and 72% in the EU. In Croatia, 3.7% of agricultural producers have more than 20 hectares. In the EU, 10% of producers are such. Listed in the 2010 OPG register, 746 had more than 100 hectares of the country. And it seems more and more visible that this public debate on agricultural land is being conducted precisely because of the group's representatives. And I think so, and I think I see most of this assembly that we're about to discuss the 3.7% that have 20 acres and more than 20 acres. And that they should primarily be allowed to increase the surface in such a way that they can buy it. Not that they're just texted here, but that they have a championship. However, this law, as we have heard here many times, advocates a form of availability, and it only advocates a lease for 50 years. What's 50 years in a farmer's life? And what is the difference between 50 years of lease and of course what would be the difference if a Croatian peasant could buy the same country? I already said that. If you could buy it through those 50 years, the country would naturally inherit it because for a peasant, the country is something he lives on, it doesn't occur to him to sell it. In addition, there are likely to be some institutes that could prevent sales, e.g. if the land is sold for 50 years, such land could not be resold. Why the lease? Is that really my question for these companies? The main objective and main criterion is the economic programme. We've heard a lot about the economic programme and I'm not going to talk about it at all because I don't think it's worth mentioning at all. I'm only interested personally in why it gave up the farm land programme. Is it really suspected that local self-government units really don't know what they want in their area, how they can organize production, how many of them are interested? But as this is explained to us in this law, the applicant's commitment is the same. And talking to me here today did not talk about their commitment will be voted. Agricultural holdings are the basis of agriculture. It was also the basis of all Croatian strategies and privatisations and an increase in production surfaces and area of the OPG. And then all of a sudden, it all stopped working. And why is that? We don't know. We don't really have an answer because there's no excessive answer why, why lease, why just certain and why in this way. We in the government, in the past government really didn't have any problem with the faith of Croatian farmers, but we didn't have a problem with the religion with the mayors, because we believed that they really knew how to dispose of agricultural land, what they would grow, whether they would deal with fruit, vegetables, warfare, whether it would be in the function of livestock and we believed in the counties and in this way the programmes of agricultural availability were made. However, some commissioners have not brought any hectare into office regardless of their programmes. Why, and that's unclear. I am personally for the sale of agricultural land to a Croatian peasant and in the function of rounding his property. Yes, because there is no difference in 50 years, there is no 50-year lease from this Croatian peasant buying it. No, it just doesn't. We need to know what are the characteristics of real land as a resource and as a production capacity. Well, that's indestructible. It's been wars, we can pollute it with mines, but here with support we'll demine it and we can bring it into function. But it's multiply from one parcel, simply on that plot there won't be 45 new parcels, but we can round them from 45 new parcels. It's intolerable, no one can take it under their hands and take it anywhere and it's of course different in fertility. And that's why it was just important to have this land programme that brought municipalities and districts and cities, the City of Zagreb, because they knew what the fertility differences were. And I will repeat what will happen if we enter, and we will join the European Union in 10 years, it simply comes to the fact that the country must be sold to any member of the European Union, and that will no longer be the advantage of our Croatian peasant. What I am particularly interested in right now is where the pasture communities came from and why they disappeared when in the first reading of this law this concept of pasture, my colleague Vukusic, I kindly ask you to step outside if you are not interested. The concept of pasture communities as an institute of common pasture management is no longer present. What happened? What happened, we don't have an answer for that, we don't have any excessive answer for that. I'm interested in the same thing as not having the advantage of any or even in the lease of agricultural land, the OPGs, not even producers in organic production. We know very well that organic production is defined as a special system of sustainable management in agriculture and forestry, which includes growing plants, animals, food production, raw materials, natural fibres, etc. and that it is in reality according to the project... Croatian organic agriculture is needed by Croatia for sustainable development. The development of organic agriculture in Croatia must not be left to market laws alone. Environmental agriculture in the sustainable development of Croatia has multiple functions, has it everywhere, is not there. When we pass this law today, we have registered at about 1,000 organic agricultural producers and about 14500 hectares of land under surveillance as of 2010. In some projections by 2016, we should have 5000 organic agricultural producers and be working around 9,000 hectares of land. Here is also in this production which is very important in Croatia's entry into the European Union, so ecologically it was not at all a concern that the advantage of at least renting can't already be bought by this organic agricultural producer as well as by a Croatian farmer, that it has an advantage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34783	Thank you. Replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34784	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have asked and opened a good question again regarding the European Union, and what it will be when we enter, why we do not get those answers. Here I am going to rely on that question of yours and take advantage of the minister's presence. I don't know why you don't tell the Croatian public that, we already said the common agricultural policy was not brought in. At the Agriculture Committee, 7,000 amendments to the original proposal for a common agricultural policy were, 7,000 amendments and have now concluded that certain key objectives of the reform will be discussed. Here I will say one key goal of the reform that I have not heard of being spoken in Croatia from the Ministry of Agriculture, which is to predict 2% of the total budget for agriculture, so this agricultural policy is intended to encourage young people to engage in agriculture and is proposed that new farmers under the age of 40 are given a 25% greater incentive for the first five years. So this is what the European Union is discussing, which we are now entering, and I am neither in this bill nor in any speech on the strategy for the development of agriculture in Croatia, and here we are three months, three and a half months until the entry into the EU, not a word of it. Or our ministry doesn't follow this. Therefore, I believe the minister does, however, but why are we not installing it into our documents to welcome EU entry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34785	The answer to the replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34786	You are absolutely right, you are right and because it has been very long before, so the government has invested in the education of young agricultural producers. Indeed, schools have passed the different ones that have been certified, which have been entered into the workbooks, and in order to obtain support, agricultural producers must be educated. They don't have that in law today. And you're right about something else. This may seem a little naughty on my part, but you and I talked about yesterday's and today's day in Brussels. We talked about this being the most important meeting in the last seven years because it's been talking about a common agricultural policy for the next seven years. So it's very important to us that the minister's position, our position, is related to the direct payment regulation of farmers. Because there will be a lot of changes for Croatia. Then on support regulation in rural development. There is a new framework with changed priorities from 2014 to 2020. So regulation on the common organisation of the agricultural products market, and then horizontal regulation. There's funding, management and monitoring. Well, I hope you here in the Croatian Parliament have to talk about it, and you have to tell us something. I hope you as Minister, and I'd be proud to have you as Croatian Minister of Agriculture there today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34787	My colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing a final proposal for a law on agricultural land. You're opening so much darkness. The EU is discussing the fourth even I think it is the fourth reform of the common agricultural policy. That's the future. Once we join the EU, we will use it. The European Commission, the European Council and the European Parliament will adopt the directives that we will adopt. So don't talk about something that's not a topic here today. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34788	Madam Vice President, you have now violated the Rules of Procedure because you misread the provisions of Article 210 that the speaker can only speak about the subject under the established agenda. If this is not in line with the agenda, then you are not thinking at all that we are three months away from joining the EU. So this law writes to him at the outset that it is to prepare to join the EU, so it is due to the adjustment of EU accession. That's what's said. And you're telling us not to talk. So we're not talking about, now we're not talking about the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, we're talking about the EU's common agricultural policy, which is the highest part of the EU budget to which this law will be reflected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34789	Thank you. You're out of time. But it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Your colleague Stazic had previously read to you an article 160 that tells you how to discuss the second reading of the bill. A colleague of the twilight, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34790	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to appeal to Article 216. You warned us not to talk about the subject. I'm very sorry, but those are double standards. When the minister and Mr Vukusic here spoke absolutely beyond every topic of ours, about the minister, the former minister offered him humanitarian work and called him out for things that had nothing to do with this, then no one warned him. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34791	My colleagues, twilight, this isn't even a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I warned you. You started talking about the common policy and the topics of the common agricultural policy in response to the replica that neither in your presentation nor in the replica there was a speech. If you are not satisfied, please contact our Rules of Procedure in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, and if you do not contact you, you are no longer entitled to this session to correct the incorrect, or infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Vladimir Bilek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34792	Dear colleagues of the Sumrak, although I highly appreciate your knowledge of agriculture because we have worked together several projects primarily related to beekeeping. But with some opinions, I can't agree. First of all, I can't agree that the sale of state land was in such a way that it was mainly surrounded by family farms and that it was in that purpose and the service you told at the outset when there were stories about you being for sale and not for renting land. Just to remind you that just by selling state land, great concerts were created that were obtained or bought on the basis of former PICs, I apologized for buying this land and buying it from our small farmers who only then stood and developed their OPGs to become directly or to try to become competitive on the market and to live from their production. You said in your statement that the former government was working to raise production. They were action plans. By means of action plans which have been tasked with increasing production, we can say that this segment has failed. There may have been an increase in some buildings, some farms built. But the farmers no longer had the means to fill them. When they filled them, and if they were able to fill them at all, they couldn't sell because it wasn't in that segment of the entire insurance market. If they were able to sell, unfortunately, many failed to collect and could not pay the loans directly. So let's not talk about how the sale of land was for the purpose of raising and preserving the OPG, but just selling the land led to the rise of some concern, and on the scale of the RH OPG area, they couldn't even get to the land.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34793	The reply to the replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34794	Thank you very much, colleague Bilek, for your discussion. Of course, I also respect you because we know very well when we do what our profession is that I very much hope that we do well and that there are no political barriers or any other. But here I didn't talk about PICs and the problem that they exist and what there are concerts. So, it's no problem what there is now I'm going to tell Belje, Agrokor because he's dragging these around and these little agricultural producers co-operatives, but the problem is that that agricultural producer that has, say, 20 acres or one that has 5, and he had them somewhere between 90 and 90 some 2.5 acres was so we kind of got to 5 acres. So they need to make sure that they get more, more hectares on which they can produce and do some production. Is this organic production, some other production that may not require hundreds of acres of land? But why not let one who has 20 acres of land buy it? I'm talking about a Croatian man, a Croatian farmer, a Croatian peasant who should be believed to be his country, you come from the same area where there are countries and I'm there from that part of the same part born and grown up and there's still a country from my mom that we don't want to sell. Because it's a shame! It's a shame to sell it. The peasant sells the land only in need, if there are no heirs anymore and what is said for the funeral if necessary. A peasant protects his country. That's just the problem, and that's the other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34795	Thank you very much. The word was requested by Minister Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34796	Thank you, Vice President. I'm trying to keep an orderly record and try to get as little part of the debate as possible because there's a terrible number of repetitions, but given the fact that they're not in the final law, then I have to react. You mention ecologically integrated production that it is not important for the Republic of Croatia and for this ministry and is not mentioned anywhere. I would show you to read Article 29 again and see that one of the criteria that will be scored in the economic programme is whether agricultural production is an activity in the system of organic or integrated production. Another thing you're talking about again is selling, buying and protecting the interests of small family economies. In the last debate a month and a few days ago, we did a lot of good things that we put into the final bill, but one thing we couldn't do, which we'll definitely do when it works and very soon it'll work out a new information system, then we'll publish a way to dispose of agricultural land so far. So we'll see that there's a lot of agricultural producers that you've made in that category of 100 acres up there, plus 500, 700, 900. Are you telling me that we're going to protect these smaller family economies in case we've allowed sales to be priority over those large ones that have 500, 700 or 900 hectares, and one, not one or five employees at most in those family economies? Sales not, rental for 50 years precisely because agricultural land is good RH and national treasure. You speak 7 plus 3 transitional period – the moment our agricultural producers come into possession through a lease agreement there is no way that it is sold to any foreign citizen who comes. But if we had sold it and it had become the case for some individuals who so warmly did not care about agricultural land the subject of possible speculation be assured that a good number of them would have waited to pass that period 7 plus 3 and that this same land offered to German, Dutch or some other farmers who would be interested in coming here. The truth is, what you're saying is that no one could take it, but it would no longer be owned by Croatian citizens, it would no longer be owned by the Republic of Croatia. In this way through this provision where we rent agricultural land it remains owned by the Republic of Croatia which is in a good, quality way rent from those whose land is needed to organise its agricultural production. They pay a certain fee to the state, this fee is also paid through regulation and in this law and the way the funds are used again to improve agricultural production for everything you have said, and you have read only part, which we have prescribed according to the old law and to what units of local self-government and old law used funds. But there's also the arrangement of the channel network, the arrangement of the Polish roads, the arrangement of the green surfaces, a lot of other things. Among other things, this measurement, editing and preparation for the cadastre, rounding and the like. You are talking about the position of the Republic of Croatia at the Council of Ministers' most important meeting in the last seven years. You really think that today is what was agreed on and in principle is agreed whether and Mr Buric has received information, I received a few hours ago, that a principle agreement has been made on a package of common agricultural policy 2014-2020 which will be the subject of an agreement with Parliament. And it will be long and hard negotiations and consensual. Not even all 27, the Republic of Croatia has no right to vote yet. We've been working and participating there for months. The agriculture ministry has almost 400 working meetings in the year. You don't think our views are enough on these working groups at all the preparatory meetings, and yesterday and today, they're high enough? It's not decided there from today until tomorrow. It's a months-long negotiation of every thing we're talking about. And be assured that we have a position on everything and that we have clearly articulated our position in the working bodies sessions, but also on the Council of Ministers through discussions. Perhaps if I were in Brussels now, then the main problem would be why the Minister of Agriculture is not at the plenary session when it comes to the most important law, and the Law on Agricultural Land is one of the most important laws of both this debate and the family discussion, and the first reading, and we see that it is an extremely important law. And I made one mistake, to have the right wrong I said, I said humanitarian work, I should have said work for the general good, that is, according to what is to be determined after the recognition and the agreement, and if you think that such great merits are from fellow Cobankovic, so here at the Ministry of Agriculture will probably be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34797	Don't mention the former ministers, especially if they're not here. The replica of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34798	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. And here's Mr. Minister just when I thought we'd get along in some parts, and you guys, in the end, really know what, you've gone too far. It's not cultural at first, it's not nice, it's not for one intellectual's office, it's just not right for one minister, I can understand a parliamentary representative who's not competing for mayor, but you're a minister. So what do you need, what do you need? However, if you could meet tomorrow, a colleague says well in the same situation. And I really didn't say that there was no problem with organic production in the law, I didn't say that I was talking about how important it is and how important it is to have a priority. There is no indication anywhere, nor are the OPGs as priority, nor are young farmers, non-organic producers have no priorities, neither defenders nor defence cooperatives, but are all listed in one. We don't know, so we don't know what's gonna be a priority, who's gonna have a priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34799	There's no answer. Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34800	Thank you. You've allowed and that's okay that you've allowed Mr. Minister to speak and on the common agricultural policy because that's what these topics are about today. When Mr. Secretary touched this, I agree with you that you weren't here when you discussed this document, it would certainly be asked why the minister wasn't here, and rightly so. But even today it didn't have to be this point of the agenda, it could have been either yesterday or tomorrow, or Friday, and it would have been better if you'd been there for the following reasons, because among other things it was agreed, I said key reform proposals. Why doesn't anyone talk about it, and this is about our Croatia, which will be, so how much will our farmers be paid per hectare? You know that according to the new proposal, the difference in the amount obtained by farmers in the eastern and western countries is up to 300 euros per hectare, how much Croatia, these easternmost countries, for example, will get. 33% of the EU average until the proposals are below 65%. That you were in Brussels regardless of not being a member of the country you could fight for the interests of Croatian farmers not to be below 65%. What's with this already mentioned proposal that young people get 25% more incentive, younger than 40 years old, and what is, and golf courses are opening up with us, right? Well, one of the key proposals for reform is that you have to leave 7% of the farmland for pastures, where we predicted it here, and when I mentioned golf courses, we have a situation that has been discussed in the European Parliament and whether it is necessary...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34801	Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34802	...and as many as they can and those who will work golf courses get support from the common agricultural production funds. If you'd been there, you'd be talking...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34803	Thank you very much. We continue with, the answer to the replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34804	The replica is...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34805	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34806	Thank you and a good question, of course we have to be in Brussels, because everything is decided in Brussels. You yourself have said the CAP or the common agricultural policy, as well as the common fisheries policy, are the most compact or the most comprehensive policies that, in some ways, are very detailed in detail for all countries in the EU and we do so, we do it from month to month. We do not have the right to vote yet, but Croatia is heard worse and be safe from 1. 7. that we will fight evenly or fight for interests with others. In fact, I came forward not because I wanted to confirm it, that it has been a serious matter for both this year and a half when we are both working bodies and Councils of Ministers, but I wanted to say one other thing, and it was a question of why we didn't take care of what we're going to have to take care of, we're talking here from 2014-2020, and then normally, according to what was agreed, it's going to be implemented in our budget and it's for young farmers, for new farmers and other things. Why isn't it in this law? It was in the bill of law and it was on the working bodies and some institutions were against having one of the provisions we put to be the age of agricultural producers where we wanted to give priority to young producers. Unfortunately, from certain institutions they were against it, the DORH was against it because he said that we are doing discrimination in this way and that it is wrong to be in the law, they asked that it is not in the proposal of the final law, that it would not be in that part of the problem in the implementation of the law or discrimination on the basis of the Constitution if we put the younger farmers in priority even if it was more logical if a young farmer and if they were to have a longer period of employment, and we are talking about renting it for 50 years, but we therefore gave the possibility of generational sequence and those farmers who would be in middle or slightly older years, and they would work through those specifics on which the same observation was, whether and how to annex contracts, in the event of death, in the case of any change, could be in which case the contract was completed and all the provisions of the contract paid by the lease, well-building agricultural land transfer to the members of the narrow agricultural land. the family if the O.P.G.... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34807	Thank you. We are continuing to discuss Branko Hrg. Here you go. ... Don't come from a teammate's bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34808	Thank you very much. As I sit here and listen to this debate, then I remember a representative in the recent Croatian history who sat in these benches and was very popular in the people. And he often used to say that the earth was like a woman, that she needed to be nursed, anointed, and looked after to give birth to you. It's about the late George Pancretic. And then I think about whether someone who's an industrialist, who's industrially looking at the earth as one mass-produced food factory can think and speak of the country as a traditional Croatian peasant can. I don't think so. And there's actually the point of the whole story why I think and the HSS that I represent here and I represent thoughts so that the OPGs absolutely have to take precedence in getting to the availability of state agricultural land. We are entering a very dangerous sphere for Croatian peasants, farmers. It is dangerous in any case and by entering the EU because we spent a year without doing anything to prepare Croatian peasants, although we swear that much has been done to prepare Croatia for EU accession related to agricultural production. And that's two concepts of two approaches at the very least. So is the current law and the one that is now being proposed that we are discussing in that part are absolutely conceptually different. On the one hand, we have in principle an attempt for the Croatian peasant to get the country because if they did a little bit of spinning through history and looking for whose country it was, in fact, it would always be from Croatian peasants because no one else could own it but he. The state came to it in various ways and now wants to keep it as such and wants to manipulate it, wants to give it to whoever it wants and, of course, to implement its policy of destroying Croatian villages. This law will not only lead to the country's getting into the hands of large systems but will move the Croatian village from the centuries-old hearths. I was deeply hurt by a statement by our prime minister here in the assembly when he said that life in the country was just for the sake of living in the country, and there was no logic, and even more when he said it was normal for some peasants to fail and that some economies would fail, that money was provided for them in the welfare portfolio. Those are the words spoken here and they are very attached to this law. They care about him, and they touch him. I think we should certainly give priority to those who already exist, to those who produce, to those who need that country to even preserve and maintain that production that we already have, not to destroy and create preconditions for some new feudals, and that's what we do. We emigrate Croatian peasants, we create from the master of the poor, and we try to do the same by this law because it is later related to that Law on Strategic Investments and it is all a connected system and only it is so partially given to debate. In the end, it will all get its contour and its shape. And that's why I can't accept that the law in this form is a little modified since the first reading, a little tempered but we can only say such complex hair is but the hair remains the same. What is also important and important in this law is that I have submitted amendments to the protection of GMOs a little stronger and clearer and strengthening the role of local self-government rather than reduction. People are going to the EU, we are totally centralizing the system with this law, we are declaring the local administration undesirable in principle on that one occasion that some units of local self-government did not implement the programme or did not bring it in. Well, there's a Mr. Minister who was, in the end, the head of the municipality. Here, Mr. Minister, I'm interested in whether you've implemented the program under that current old law, whether you're still current or not, if you're not? Because even because of you, if you haven't implemented it now, we have statistics that this law was wrong and that local self-government should be destroyed, erased and trampled. That's what it looks like. We say that the agency, several miracle workers, will do this job much better than they do today throughout the Croatian Council, the service, everyone, the ministry, the State's Attorney's office all together. No, they won't. I don't believe that. If someone didn't do their job, if someone didn't enforce the law, then there are sanctions. In this year we could sanction it, speed up this process, and today we have much better and much stronger data. Evidence that these agencies aren't working, that in a centralized state it's not going well because, say, Audio, try to get to someone in the Audio, try some problem from the level of local self-government. Come on, try it. If you get to any clerks, I'll take you for a drink right away. You can't reach the clerk, you can use the phone to talk to them. What do you think will happen at the National Agricultural Land Agency? It's gonna get worse, it's gonna be harder to get here, nothing's gonna get solved, and we're gonna have a hard time getting control. And that's why I'm looking for amendments not to disenfranchise local self-government but to ask that local self-government at least get the control part of this land's management mechanism, not to throw it away, to move it aside. If I were to go on and talk about that part about whether the law was being implemented or not, whether local self-government was working or not, I'd say that we're slaughtering a cow for steak and because some local self-government units have been insubordination, haven't done the job, some of them haven't even had land, it's inside, we're going to say that all local self-government units are no good, that all criminals and that the state's attorneys have actually worked and confirmed crime. That's what we're saying with this law. I ask you once again after these discussions, and there will certainly be a lot of amendments, you see the situation. No one here wants anything bad to happen with that land, we all want it to come into the right hands, to be processed, to be around our OPG's houses to the greatest extent, and that people live there, to feed their family, to create income, and not have at the employment office and at the social care center an increase in the statistical number of new unemployed and new social cases. For that reason, I urge you once again to consider this together. There were suggestions that it might be good to even put this law in third reading, it is so important and important that it should be considered. There's nothing we can do about it anymore anyway, we won't be able to do anything about it before we join the European Union. So think about it, too, if you really scratch and make as good a law as you can because the country doesn't reproduce, it's the way it is, we have it on the border as much as we have it, it's not going to be anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34809	Thank you very much. Two replicas to your exposure are. The first one is Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34810	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleague, your regrettable state so far and desire to preserve the situation so far would be completely understandable to me if I hadn't seen the collapse in my coastal end, the complete decline of agriculture, agricultural production precisely during the time your party had the greatest impact on the agricultural portfolio. I remember therefore vineyards, hills under vineyards, farmed fields in... prigorje, now unfortunately after so I would say 12 years of responsibility and your parties are exceptions. Here and there you can see someone clean because a hobby still maintains a vineyard or just for the sake of a hobby maintains a garden. So this current system has proved completely inefficient, especially here in the vicinity of the city of Zagreb, I do not know these other parts enough. But the results of the agricultural production we have had so far show that in the last 8 or 9 years the imports of agricultural products have been continuously increased, that we do not produce enough for our own purposes, so that agricultural areas are not used to a sufficient extent. This system is ineffective, we need to change it. We are entering the European Union where the rules of the game have long been set up as it tries to adapt to this law in our field as well. And if we continue to maintain the current state, we have a tendency to fall, a further fall, and this condition is impossible to maintain because we are going to sink more and more. We have to... the paradigm and the agricultural production and this law is about it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34811	Replication response, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34812	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So I also said that we all want the law to be good, better, that it improves, strengthens, and that we all benefit from it together, only this law doesn't go that way. And as for my party, which has been in the management of the agricultural resort for six years, four years in the coalition with the SDP and two years in the coalition with HDZ, the actual situation is one. We had an election assembly and these people no longer run the party. I don't want to carry anyone's sins on my back, there were a lot of mistakes, but you have to admit there were both good moves and conditions at that time and in today's times it was still better, it was more perspective, people had kind of more passions and desires, they criticized, but they invested, something was happening. Look at yourself today, maybe go a little outside the Zagreb circle and go among the people to the country, ask them how they live, ask them what they're saying, ask them if they've ever been worse than they are now. They say it's not, they don't remember, and they don't remember anything like this. That's what people say, I don't say. If they lie and I lie and I agree to that lie, but they don't lie because I'm the mayor of the city and I see every day what's going on, how many people come to me and what's the situation. I've been in touch with people every day, Mr. Pandeck.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34813	And Vladimir Bilek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34814	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, your debate is over with the words of the land do not reproduce. That is correct, and the intensity of this law is that the country we still have is abandoned, and where the units of local self-government have not done and our country has not brought in culture, and so far it has been abandoned to bring it into culture. The other thing is, you said the country should remain for those who exist, those who already work, right? Our active farmers, here, although they won't have likely, perhaps, some will, perhaps even most will, 60 points in the economic plan itself. Or Article 30(1) shows: "Employment 60 points". The current owner if 20 points and 20 points are based on peaceful property. Well, in case that farmer isn't perfect, too, it's not like he's got 60 points, but he's 40, he's got 30, he's got 25 points on the economic program. If he has so far been the owner of state agricultural land in some way by competition or somehow and if he offers the price he was allowed here to get the maximum amount of 20 points he has again more, more points than he can have the one who will have 60 points in the economic plan, the programme and has not so far been the owner of the country. It is the intensity of this law that all those who worked on state agricultural land to continue to do it, and not that some of them were taken away by them through a company, an OPG, a craft or otherwise. So everything's going to stay in this part. And the intensity of reality is that 70% of the state land, or that the total land of our 70% of the land is private and only 30% is state. So we don't depend that much on the state. We need to bring in a culture that has been abandoned agricultural land, state agricultural land, first of all, and that will solve this problem in part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34815	The answer to Branko Hrg's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34816	My colleague Bilek, I appreciate you and I respect you and I think you have real fair intentions and that what you're saying is really what you're thinking and I wish it were really like that, but I don't believe it. Not you, not that I don't trust you, but I don't think that's gonna happen what you're saying. Because if it did, we'd all be happy about it. But I am now asking myself and you the question, and then why are all the peasant associations, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, the peasants in the Neretva Valley, Slavonia, Prigorje, Zagorje, Podravina. Why does everyone object to this law if he's gonna be so good. It bothers me. There I am no longer alone with myself in the clear. That's the problem, you know. That's the problem I'm looking at. They're all afraid that the big systems will eat the little peasant and he won't be able to keep that country, that he won't be able to process it any further. That's the problem. All right, points are points. I've had opportunities to work and available programs and conduct competitions and see what's going on. There were beautiful imported programmes that were given to companies or crafts. And you were doing malfeasances, manipulations. They were reselling the land, and that's exactly what it was. No peasant who has a barn or anything else has sold his land. But according to the competition and the program's program, it couldn't get through. The peasant didn't leave, so he made a program, he imported it, he gave it a nice hard reprimand. No, he took the paper he wrote I have 30 cows, I mean expand it, so much and so much, that program didn't go through. Oh, let it go. Up on the balcony there was a farmer sitting just before having 300 head of cattle and saying that unless she could solve the land issue that she could sell it all out and go after the bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34817	Thank you. The word was requested by Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34818	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hrg, I will try to really be brief but not only in your debate, but also in a few other colleagues who have said in a way very decidently that the units of local self-government have been excluded from the process of implementing and deciding under the new bill. I'm going to say one more time that's a fact that doesn't stand. The only difference is that several units of local self-government are not the ones who decide and exclusively decide on how to dispose of agricultural land. If you take a closer look at and read the law from Article 28, which says that units of local self-government from the very preparatory part of the collection of documents to all those steps to a decision that is much less and the whole implementation of the project is much shorter than the publication of calls, the collection of offers, participation in the commission, the decision on this commission is included. And we've defined exactly where we've been the last time we made a mistake. We were not wrong, but we were not clear enough, so there were objections that they told us, and therefore we changed them until the final proposal of the law to determine how units of local self-government would give their representatives to the commission, so we said we have executive power, we have legislation. They're not every time in the same proportion or co-habitation, so let's each level of one representative per commission. So it doesn't look like they're not involved. The difference is that there is no longer an exclusive decision on local self-government units. I think all those hardworking employees of the local self-government unit will use it and give their pain in quality work. Could we have prescribed that it had to be regional? We put the agency's work to be regional. I don't think there's anything good about the sea. We've left the possibility of making this happen, and the plan is for the agency to be through four regional centres, and once again I note that the agency is not an imaginary body in which they don't work, some people who came yesterday have never had contact with the problem of agricultural land. The Agricultural Land Agency has a basic objective of focusing on areas of strategic interest, carrying out activities with elaborated procedures and without impediments, better monitoring of activities, less inconsistencies, preventing the possibility of counter-legal bargaining and non-transparency, better availability of the necessary documentation to ensure and more effective communication with competent institutions, and greater efficiency. This fellow Hrg when you say how you're going to get to some employees now, you mentioned some other agencies so you can't come, so coffee, drinks if you come. It was a time when cases were dealt with in this way that one of the clerks or one of the directors of the agencies had been reached, and then it was over-delivered. This Agricultural Land Agency will work in this transparent manner. That is why we are introducing an information system that will be transparently available to all agricultural producers, cooperatives, crafts, companies, all who want to see what stage, what and how it is available. If it doesn't work, there'll be consequences for that. It's not good if we're dealing with the situation so we're going to go find someone we know at some agency and get some things up to speed. As a system we're not good enough, we can be much better, there's a lot of work ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34819	Thank you very much. Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34820	Article 24(2) states that "the government of the Republic of Croatia can release compensation obligations to change the purpose of projects of special interest for the Republic of Croatia", and I think it would be quite appropriate for the government to write there even with the previous agreement of the local self-government on which the country is located. See, that's the part where I say local self-government is downgraded. This is just one segment. I didn't understand you, Mr. Minister, about some coffee, drinks, I don't know what to do with anyone. I said earlier that it was impossible to get in touch and reach some clerks in some agencies of the government of the Republic of Croatia, our government, our Republic of Croatia. And I don't understand who gave you enough of this idea that some agency in the state will handle things easier than local self-government on its own land? Who gave you the satisfaction of coming from local self-government, that by yesterday you were the head of the municipality, that you knew the problem, and that the EU's intensity and EU Charter of Local Self-Government to go to decentralisation, and we have a year ago continued and strengthened centralisation. That's the point of the story, that's the truth. And I beg you, whoever convinced you it's not good, it's the wrong way to lead you, it's the wrong way. You know that people's "away from the eyes, away from the heart", that's what it looks like to you. I no longer have a fingernail on my hands to scratch the doors of government offices as the head of local self-government, I spent my nails. I can't reach anyone, no one's answering, no one's answering. That'll be with this agency, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34821	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34822	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, it's very short. I neither see here nor favored and created some kind of Superman from agency employees although I am sure that these are people who have a lot of experience and a lot of goodwill and professionalism and will do a great job with good leadership of the agency itself. But I do see this story about the availability of agricultural land in this concept where we have both in the commission and throughout the process the partnership relationship between the units of local self-government and the agency is actually a synergy that will only make this process better. The only difference in the whole story is that it's not a final decision exclusively on local self-government units. All other things, the whole procedure is laid down that the partnership relationship between the units of local self-government and the Agricultural Land Agency is. And that synergy must bring a better result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34823	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34824	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Although you have made one replica impossible for me even though I have raised it in due time, here I will now try to answer the minister only to what he has exhibited. Yes, you've put two representatives of local self-government and that's fine. You should have allowed them to veto the suspicious decisions of three members of the agency, then that would be transparent. If they did not agree on the tender form or the bidder who surely comes from some fifth municipality or city or Zagreb or Rijeka and wants to compete with his firm on a land then a veto could be made... representatives who are probably legally elected as representatives of the council or mayor or mayor of the municipality who will be you or someone they will empower to be in that commission. Then it would certainly be more transparent, like this we can't say. And what worries us most about both us and agricultural producers and all the OPGs and associations is the score of the economic programme. The point is that you put it in this law as one additional segment of all 15 or 16 listed as I counted 16 things that should be evaluated clearly and transparently would know what they're on. Where does this road lead with this law? Some improvements yes, I'll say hello to them but I can't say that this is in the interest of peasants. This certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34825	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34826	Thank you. Very short. Again, we are referring to the economic programme, yet we have not carefully read Article 29 of Article 30. Article 29(7) "One of the things that will be valued is the weighting of the economic programme is also the distance from the leased land." The principle of domicileness. It does not bear the same number of points if there is an offerer for the area to be leased in the same catastrian municipality or unit of local self-government compared to someone coming from or outside the area. So that's what this system of points is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34827	Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34828	Well, I'm a partner, too, but this law is full of centralised. You mentioned a series of malfeasances that were so far and this partnership was supposed to be so far. Because the only responsibility was not local self-government. Under all existing laws, the ministry gave final consent. It was given among other things by one of Pankretic's worst ministers. It was also given by Cobankovic, given by beautiful Dragance as secretary of Kovacevic, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34829	My colleague, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34830	Well, look at him like that in Slavonia we like to call. But what I really don't understand is how this local sheriff, the local power chief, the mayor could have given to a family economy owner or sold the land or leased it when, at the end of the day, the entire State's Attorney's Office introduced a tenant or, in those cases, when the sale was introduced by the owner of a family economy, i.e. a legal or a natural person. As far as I'm concerned, I have no reason to doubt the agency's employees, there may be new employment, but they're practically all the people who've been in the ministry so far. And they didn't stop the whole problem, they braked the top of the ministry. Starting with the secretary of state and to the ministers themselves. And I agree that time has passed and coffee and cuisine and wine and I don't know the pig, lamb and all sorts of things and even blue envelopes, but it's time for you to really see that it's in everyone's interest because it's first of all one and it should be organic law, that it be brought by consensus to everyone in this assembly and not by voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34831	Thank you. And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34832	Dear Minister, here's how much I've learned from your debate you get caught up in the work of government agencies. But you must be aware that many government agencies do not work, that many government agencies are without defined functions, that many government agencies serve only to hire party friends. The agencies are mostly inaccessible. I couldn't agree more with Mr. Horg. You can only talk to the secretary on the phone today if you get her, if she doesn't have an automatic secretary. When you're with a live secretary, it's almost as if you've got a hit on the lottery. Many bosses have never seen or will ever see. These agencies are spent a billion kuna a year. This government hasn't given a single answer to what these agencies are for, and there are countless, we have hundreds of agencies. What are they for? And now you assume that this agency will do as you imagine. I don't doubt your intentions, but it won't just work. It is too heavy a burden to solve such problems spotlessly and that all the accumulated problems in agriculture manage to correct, to manage to divide a fair country, to manage to control all economic programmes, to score. It's actually a sizif job that's in this organization of agencies like today and the 14 months the government hasn't done anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34833	Thank you very much. Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34834	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I can agree with you that the entire apparatus, the state apparatus, probably some agencies, are not doing their best and most effective work. The whole system, we can all work much better. Those of us who do business, I mean very, very, very much 14, 16, 18 hours sometimes. We can't ask the employees of the departments and agencies but we can ask them to do their job properly and professionally for eight hours. Those agencies that are related to the Ministry of Agriculture, and one of the most important or as you say they will be, but I already see it as one of the most important agencies of the Agricultural Land Agency as well as the Payment Agency, as well as the Croatian Agricultural Agency, but others who are tied will do their job professionally, while I run the Ministry more efficiently than ever. We'll see through the results of their work how good they are or how good they are. We can't judge these people in advance that they won't do their job. I say, in this section for working through committees and by deciding who will be on the basis of the economic programmes and other values that make up the offer, and how much we will put agricultural land in a year, or every year we will be doing reports, full reports on the work of the agency, and which will be once again presented in a transparent manner to the public and to the agricultural producers. We'll see if that agency has done its job properly or not. In advance, I do not agree to condemn those people who are professionals who will have precisely defined tasks in their work not to do their job. That's it. I hope to deny you in a year when we summed up or analyzed their first report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34835	We're continuing the debate. Stjepan Milinkovic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34836	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, thank God we'll soon be in the EU, and there our farmers expect unsuspecting opportunities only half of these above our honorable friends will not welcome that entry, of course in the economic sense. For many are already on the verge of exhaling and many are watching us. But speaking of speed we're going and this debate is going quickly, so let me have a few words at that speed. In fact, this law was revolutionaryly announced, so the first presentation was held somewhere in June, but the committee responsible, which is a member, I think that Mr. Brlocic, who left, did not meet then, has not met until today. Furthermore, in half of November, Mr. Minister, you announced a new law in a week, so we welcomed it, and it passed that term and we welcomed March. And indeed all those who speak say that this year is lost for Croatian agrarian I hold that claim standing. And you know what my neighbor, the farmer of the O.P.G., says... says: "The minister deliberately made it difficult, stalled because there is no foam for which he did not fight."so he looks at that moment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's a similar situation in the other part because I've talked several times about the dairy sector, and that speed is also mainly about the rules on the regulation of contractual relations in the milk and milk products sector. milk package. The same thing is happening, and that speed does not go with the dynamics we would like because farmers warn that the buyer is obliged to make an offer, to make an offer, however there is no offer, this was a unique opportunity to regulate the sector in this way and if this EU regulation of 261 in 2012 says that Croatian milkers, farmers should be maintained, sustainable economic development and an appropriate living standard. Again, this buyer puts himself in a privileged position and will not be the problem solved again, and our manufacturer, and our milk producers lose 180,000 kuna daily, so the calculations speak. There's a problem, there's this opportunity, and in that part of it, and in those circumstances, it's difficult for our villages, for our peasants, mostly cattlemen, the milkman here's the law in the 2nd reading. And now it's a major and all-powerful agency, an all-powerful five-member agency, three by the ministry, two units by local self-government. Now I ask you, dear friends, whom these 3 will vote for, if they are to vote for, they will certainly not vote for that of my husband's farmer. But the other thing is, it's an even bigger problem that my farmers don't believe in those agencies, so they don't trust you either, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, I'll be honest with you, Jožina said to say hello to the minister... That's how they think, they think. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a very complex condition. A lot has been said today in this debate and I wouldn't want to repeat myself about all forms, so from decentralisation, of all these moments that I wouldn't want to repeat myself at. I'd be happy if I'd said it again, and I've done some things over and over again, I'd be happy to have some positive ones so I can repeat it back home now that I'm going home to my village, but unfortunately I can't bring them any optimistic ones. They're expecting it, but unfortunately they've been waiting a long time, and it's not going. That's why I'm going to say about those things that were a little less talk, which are about pasture communities. The pasture communities in our homeland have a long tradition, a long tradition, and certainly that there are various interests intertwined, so there are Croatian forests, Croatian waters and in 2011 it was in some way trying to arrange it, but now there are no more pasture communities, there is no in this law, and unfortunately it will not contribute to the improvement of livestock that it is in such a state as it is. But above all, it will not contribute and help Croatian defenders who, within the framework and their cooperatives, have shown their initiative, their strength and their desire to work. I think it's a bad one, and it's a big failure, and in that part, I have to warn you. Furthermore, we often boast with our environment which in a relatively wider European environment we have a well preserved environment, we have in this environment and therefore our pearls of nature, so habitats of various birds, animals, etc. And now Article 3(1) states: "Agricultural land within the meaning of this law is considered agricultural land, oranica, gardens, meadows, pastures, orchards, olive groves, vineyards, ponds, reeds and swamps. Here's ours, so I don't talk about those pearls, so Lonjsko polje, Kopački ass. So we each in our midst have such examples where nests of rare species are nested. I have a white shepherd, for example. And we're extremely proud of my Jetkov, where also one pearl of nature. And in that, and so, and now, someone's gonna be able to compete to bring in the agricultural function and what's going to happen to that, so here's how the bird protection and nature societies cry out to the sky as our colleague on the left and warn about this problem. And I'm warning, I think we should protect this environment and this nature and this rare species that come to admire people from all over the world. And one thing that may be less today in some way, but as it is said about everything and everything, let me also say a few words about legalization. Legalisation, and in these circumstances, additionally burdens our farmers because of an immensely high price, because of the really high costs and they are not able to overcome these circumstances regardless of the many units of local self-government that are trying to help. On particularly difficult occasions are, here from my midst where the tradition of this client is, mountaineering is also where our honorary, here are the pensioners we have a representative of the pensioners, who were honorably concerned and sparse to build those places so that they could leave at their age but unfortunately can't do the same, because they are an immensely high price of legalisation, they complained, they referred the complaint to the Constitutional Court and, of course, it could have been resolved much more easily by the example of our neighbours in the EU Hungarians who have prescribed 100 or 200 euros in that part for such facilities, and I think that this too has shown one negligence. So here's how much I tried to talk about those things that weren't spoken of and thank us very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34837	And those aren't the subject, are they? Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34838	I think we all have to put our hands on our hearts. You said that 50% of family economies will not welcome EU accession economically. So around 30% to 35% when we join the EU as our negotiating teams negotiate in the EU, I would use the word Zalek, as we negotiated a special chapter of agriculture. That's what I think you can confirm because I see you're monitoring the situation in agriculture. So not wanting to defend neither the minister nor the ministry now is. Some things have been inherited. In any case, however, one law should be based on the strategy of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. I remind you that the existing strategy is somewhere in 2001. And that's probably why it's been through a series of governments, and that's probably why we're in agricultural production because we don't have any strategies. So we have bigger imports of agricultural products. It's clear to me that we can, we need to import or we need to import bananas because they don't work in Slavonia but to import meat, milk, wheat, corn. On the other hand, all the time we're talking about adapting and new types of new technology cultures not wanting to be rude, obviously we're going to be this only income culture is going to be growing marijuana for private needs and this is going very well on the agricultural market.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34839	Replication response, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34840	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I agree with you, colleague Vinkovic, so that many of our agricultural producers might be in these circumstances. But I don't agree with that part where you said the agriculture chapter wasn't well negotiated, it was. That is why we have these opportunities for making and paying 380m euros and 330m for rural development. But it's what you said about the strategy that matters. Our mouths are full of strategy and it's said agriculture is a strategic branch. Well, it should be a strategic branch, given the potential it has, we can feed 25 million people. But the strategic branch is certainly about that moment of employment. Col. Horvat made it very clear that the importance of the number of our citizens is employed in the agriculture sector, the importance of the number. But now, under these circumstances, every day 10-15 OPGs, they all go to the employment office, and in that part that vicious circle is spinning and the number of unemployed is growing, the OPG is failing, and our village is about to break. Here's the final score. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34841	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34842	Thank you very much. So, fellow Milinkovic, you mentioned how it would go or that some of our peasants would not welcome the entry into the EU. Here you forgot to say that yesterday and today the Council of Ministers of Agriculture of the EU countries has been invited to Croatia and is the most important meeting in the past seven years since the common agricultural policy for the next seven years. But there is no minister of ours, Jakovina, who took part in a spring tour of the government of the Republic of Croatia called the forerunners, so he was prevented from presenting 15 minutes at the second stage of the jumpership held yesterday in Osijek, and today he is obliged to present this law in order to determine work for the general good of his former colleague. What do you say to all this? This is not some malicious bribery but a warning of a serious guff and a failure that may be more important to the Minister of Agriculture than this rally, which is most important in seven years because it is about the next seven years. All four key documents defining common agricultural production 2014-2020 They're under review, regulated in direct payments to farmers. Very much change important for Croatia. There are two regulations on support and rural development. There is a new framework with the implementation of priorities 2014-2020. There is a regulation on the common organisation of the agricultural products market, etc. Single agricultural regulations, horizontal regulations, financing, management, monitoring, there is all about financing the control of paying agencies. I don't know what the minister today could have been in the Parliament today or at the second stage of the scontic yesterday in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34843	Replication response, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34844	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues, Djakic, thank you for the replica, I think you have made it very clear what the importance of this meeting is in Brussels and that I really believe that the minister has also realized today that he should have been there. Of course we appreciate that he is here today with us and that we are discussing these problems here and that he has heard what is bothering our village but also since we are constantly talking about how many opportunities are in this EU and how much more important but more important this one is to order in this place along with everything, so there could be heard and all these things can be heard as easily as we are ready for this movement of these 380 million euros or 330 for rural development. There was little talk about it, and that's what our public expects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34845	Marija Vukbratović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34846	Thank you. Dear colleague Milinkovic. You talk about agriculture very often, which is extremely commendable since you come from one agricultural area. However, recently I had the opportunity to examine a document called the County Development Strategy of the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, so the county in which your municipality is headed. Among other things, in this development strategy, for measures to improve the promotion and development of agriculture, therefore, rounding, merger, construction of a irrigation system, the development of integrated and ecological and many other things, amounts to 15.5 million kuna, while at the same time, as an example, I have nothing against it, for measures to improve sport, the 26 million kuna is allocated. I wonder if your concern for farmers is real or just declarative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34847	Replication response, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34848	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Vukbratovic, I don't just talk about agriculture, I live agriculture. I live with these farmers daily and witness their difficulties, immense efforts and circumstances in which they live. And we are certainly a municipality, regardless of your data you have read or not read, we certainly help agriculture, certainly from more units of local self-government in various ways, from artificial sensation to all, here until now until the legalization of each OPG by 5000 kuna. But of course, I am proud especially that in rural development we give our young people the opportunity to be healthy, to have a healthy spirit in a healthy body because in these circumstances the disaster they live in if they do not yet have a healthy spirit in their healthy body is not there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34849	Fellow Ivanka Roksandić is on the line for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34850	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the minister who just said that we're almost repeating ourselves all day, obviously the Minister is not doing well in this law when we all keep saying the same thing, but I'm not going to repeat myself. I was talking about what I'm going to talk about today in the first debate and you didn't accept my proposal, so I'm going to do it again in this debate. He noted something in his debate with counterpart Milinkovic, and it is mainly about the problem of leases in the protected area, especially the lease of common pastures. I come from such an area where one of the most beautiful nature parks in Croatia, which is the Lonjsko polje, which is certainly not easy to live in, is not lived by the Posaci, not by the Turopolians living in the part of the Odran field, neither do Slavons, nor do Moslavians live because life in the parks of nature is not easy. It is not easy because this life takes place under certain regulations, regulations of nature protection in which you cannot do what you want, so you cannot even grow what you want, so it is done on your private plots, and especially on those you have traditionally used for cattle pasture for centuries. This issue is referred to in Articles 46 and 47 of this Law. The fact is that since the first reading of both of these articles you have changed a lot, namely, you have reduced the time period for pastures, common pastures can be leased from 20 to 5 years, I don't know why, but you have made it possible for natural and legal persons as well. and small farmers when we talk about natural persons to shepherd on common pastures, but only those enrolled in the register of agricultural holdings and that's fine, but they'll use part of the grassland area according to the number of cattle's throats. These ministers will not solve the problem of small OPGs I have said for centuries using these pastures, which are not easy because large ones who will also compete for these parts of pastures by the number of cattle and by those criteria that you will bring to the advantage of the special rules, and will be privileged by the economic programme that brings 60 points out of 100 points, which are being talked about today by colleagues. In these areas I said in the nature park and in this area I'm talking about parchment is not just a tradition, it is a necessary need. The lack of pasture in pasture threatens both the animal and plant species and the habitats of birds spoken of by fellow Milinkovic, and if this area grows amorphoses and becomes derelict only then the problem is with those institutions, and such areas are mostly the masters and care for the institutions that are founded for them, it will be very difficult to manage this area. You have not accepted my observation that consent to the decision to grant common pastures in the protected area is given by institutions operating the protected area. I must remind you that these institutions must, under the Nature Protection Act, bring management programmes to their territory, that they are responsible for the situation in their area, that they are responsible for protecting the environment in their area, and according to this they are completely losing jurisdiction over part of their territory. Why, as the Agency will decide on the lease of common pastures with the previous consent of the Ministry of Nature Protection. This ministry is here yesterday we are discussing together with us the new Nature Protection Act, so it said in Article 131, this is the first reading, that public institutions in Article 130, that I do not repeat everything, do this law to carry out the protection, maintenance, promotion of the protected area in order to protect and preserve the originality of nature, monitor the implementation of the conditions and nature protection measures in the area they manage, participate in the collection of data for the purpose of monitoring the state of conservation of nature, and the rental will be taken care of by the agency. The agency outside the facility will have nothing to do with this. It's not good. It's not good because of the next minister. When we talk about finance, I note that protected areas, nature parks, national, regional parks, extend to several units of local self-government. In article 44 of this law that we are discussing, there is a regulated distribution of financial resources from the leases, and there has been little improvement since last time, so you said that 25% will go to the state budget, 10 we will give to the county because most colleagues have to admit it from the position, from the ruling talks that something should belong to the county, so you gave them 10% and 65% to the local self-government unit, i.e. The city, the municipality of which the land is located and this common pasture. But I have to tell you, for example, inside the nature park, I'm talking about something from practice. Within Nature Park Lonjsko polje, which I know well and this is also about northern Velebit and Kopačska rit and about the mass of such and parks of nature and regional parks, you have that pastures, mainly pastures and agricultural land spread to several units of local self-government so that Nature Park also has its pastures in the area of the town of Sisak and the municipality of Popovač, Jasenovac, the town of Kutina, Novska and even in the neighbouring County of the boat-posavi. So, all those units will get some of the funds from your piece of common pasture. Imagine, and you know who's responsible for what's going on in those pastures? A nature park that manages a protected area is established. Here's an example from yesterday's law debate. The Nature Protection Act tells you at least that's what it predicts in the first reading, and I believe it will stay. When he talks about concessions, it's something like that. The resources achieved in Article 192 of the concession authorisation compensation under the Nature Protection Act are public institutions which manage the protected area in which concession authorisation has been granted and are intended solely for the protection of nature. Does this mean that the funds given to units of local self-government will have no objection to spending on a common pasture, to rebuild the common pasture, to arrange that pasture because they have to spend it, that the institution will be responsible for that arrangement and that the municipality or city itself will invest so much in those pastures. I don't think that's good, and that's why I can't accept your argument that you gave me here in an explanation after the first reading of the law that the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that for the sake of equality of conduct throughout the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary that consent on the lease is not given by an institution that manages this area but by the Central Authority of the State for the Protection of Nature. It may give, but I don't know how the central body proposed this Nature Protection Act when it comes to concessions. And I'm telling you, maybe concessions are a little bit different. It's also some crafts, occasional crafts, and occasional work within protected areas I apologize to. So now, where we have specific pastures to use I'm going to tell you again little peasants, small farmers, those who for centuries will lose their ability if the agency outside that area determines how much and how they can use these pastures. And the damage will be double for both agriculture and for institutions that control these protected areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34851	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34852	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You colleagues spoke very well about pastures and nature parks, but here I am in my debate and mentioned it and asked about pasture communities. And you mentioned them also the importance of these pasture communities. And we need to know that these pasture communities have been established under the 2011 law and some have been formally established. Technically, it wasn't a small job, it was a very big job and a lot of effort. Between the first and this second reading of the law, they simply disappeared, so now the question is, what does that mean? This law proposes a partial lease of pastures of such pastures, so I would like to know what the Proposer means by which parcels will be carried out in the common pasture and who will cover the costs incurred. And also who will be enrolled in the ARCOD as the owner of the land. That's interesting, because today a lot of MPs have already asked that question, I've troubled it several times but we don't have the answers to that question about pasture communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34853	Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34854	Excuse me. Comrade twilight, I also asked that question, but I am having a dilemma as to why it disappeared from first to second reading of the pasture community. It's my opinion, I'm not a great expert in this area, but I was a member of the board of directors in nature park, so I know the situation. The pasture communities circled small farmers and they would have believed in their offer stronger, stronger and it was a danger. It's just my guess. I believe the minister will answer. And as for enrolment in the ARCOD I can tell you with pride that the Nature Park Lonjsko polje is completely their own i.e. State land managed by enrolment among the first in the ARCOD. And she spent money and money just for that enrolment so she could rent and use primarily agricultural land in her area. And here's what's gonna happen, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34855	It is up to the debate, colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34856	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here is the final proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land in which there are some additions and amendments that were like proposals and remarks in the first reading, and they have improved part of this law that we can unquestionably assert. However, there remains a problem which is secure and which is not repairable, which we cannot interpret differently than that it is for large purposes and that it is aimed at those who can compete, which can cause quality economic programmes and who can have more employees, who can have more machinery. And I'm going to say something concrete in this famous article 29, which lists what the economic programme is and what will be valued in it. So, so far, the business of the economy. How many points? Zero points. Agricultural production, like five points. Relations of aquaculture activities as the primary activity of call participants, expert preparation of call participants. How many points? With one, two, three? The ratio of the number of artificial throats and land the economy has. How many points? These are the specific questions that we ask you, how are these 60 famous points that make up most of the 100 points going to happen. So, half the majority is defined through this economic programme and evaluation. The ratio of the number of artificial throats and land, as I said, is available by means of the necessary mechanism for the planned use of land. How much will you give for two tractors in an economy that has one big, one small, and a hundred tractors? How are you going to make that point, I'm asking you? ... One tractor one point? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's fine. Half a point, I agree. To know how much, what, how it's gonna be. Present to us here today so that tomorrow our peasants know that these 60 points will be achieved. Tell us what the type of production planned means. Distance from the land? How many points? A mile, how much? With two kilometers, with what, five kilometers, with what, 50 kilometers, with what, 100 kilometers? Whether they wear minus points or plus points. That doesn't say anything here. We can't see what's going on. Environmental or integrated production, okay. The number of employees I've already said that. Is a hundred employees a hundred points or a hundred employees at 0.2 and then it's going to be 20 points or is it going to be directed differently? Is he planning a new job? Well, the one with 100 employees can say he'll still hire 10, 20 or 50. I see that in this bill of law, 50 thousand people should be employed in such agricultural production and in a million hectares of land that should be put into service by May 15th. I think she played it on the willow. The planned new employment, the question is how will you assess what it will be and how will sanction the one who does not achieve this planned new employment or in the meantime fail? I think it's actually hints that can't be adequately evaluated or evaluated, and these 60 points you've really meant for those who wrote this bill to you. And that's the nepotism you've established in your ministry no doubt in several directions. And supervision and production and imports. All this is what the State's Attorney's Office should certainly be discussing but also the Commission on the conflict of interest on nepotism that we must talk about in this House. Instead of using the few measures that have been developed so far and the rights of the championship, you went with a bill that he wrote and presented to you and sent as a presentation to Mr Kuterovac's ministry. Here, that's what this is about. Let's not hide anymore. A clear message is who will get land from this economic programme and the values of those 16 segments of its land. What you put on, I commendably said, means two members of the commission from the local self-government, one from the executive authority and one representative from the council. Those two can't outrun these three or outvote them on any basis. It is a democratic ratio of strength, you name those in the agency who will be in the commission, local self-government conditions these. These will say so and this will be chosen and you two from local self-government rise up and you can go home. There is no instrument that unless it can be adequately assessed and agreed that those local self-governments who know what people are concerned about, what kind of business they are, how much effort and work they have put into production so far, how many of them it took to acquire and how many credits they have are certainly not more adequate than the head of the municipality or representatives of the council to represent the interests of those competing in the area. You made a commitment to the local self-government to have her prepare the materials, so she had to deliver them all. If you don't deliver them, you won't get funds from... land. You took the counties even though you realized that the counties still worked through their plan and programme of work on a mass of jobs that are in the interest of farmers of family farms. You declared this law so that they could be the holders of the O.P.G. that will compete. Declaratively only, you don't give them any major advantage, they don't announce themselves anywhere, and why they didn't, I clearly wrote in my amendment what our goal, our desire, and what it should look like to be fair, to be sure that agricultural producers, i.e. our family farms were represented. Another kind of leverage and what goes towards the goal, that someone who is intended to build a golf course this law will be freed from paying compensation for the reuse of that land. And that is the thing that the construction of golf courses in a narrow sense falls into the construction of sports courts and facilities that are in line with the provisions of paragraph 2 and Article 21 of this final proposal of the law, which defines the construction of sports courts and facilities as a change in the purpose of agricultural land that, in accordance with Article 1 of the same article, compensation must be paid. Given that agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia, it is unclear why the value of a very small area of interest to the Republic of Croatia would be considered insignificant in relation to the value of the total surface of that good and on the basis of which the item in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and other positive rules of government could give such a categorisation of the value of good for the Republic of Croatia. In this law, I have also proposed in these amendments: "That the ratio in the evaluation of this economic programme be reduced from that 60% to 20 in favour of the economic programme, that everything else be changed in order to replace the ratio in Article 30(1)(a) by 20, in point (b) of the figure 20 is replaced by 60 and word added, and if the holder of the family holding and members of its family, employees and exercise the rights of such working relationship." This is what we are interested in to ensure that both rural employment and the OPGs are as adequate and adequate as possible for all positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. And I am sure that this kind of change certainly contributes to the improvement and treatment of land and the lease of land and transparency in renting to those who certainly process agricultural land. As well as the amendment, we also want to fix Article 44 on the percentage and distribution ratio of funds from the lease of agricultural land. So a 25% percentage that is now intended for the state should be more county, and what is intended for the county should be state. It is an adequate representation of the regional and local self-government that you are certain to have made out of this law, regardless of how it is mentioned, to be obliged to deliver all the documentation, to do everything to make it easier for you in the agency to work, and therefore to receive greater funds. But these 25% that are... I'm sure it's because of new employment at the agency to cover those costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if you want to do really well for this peasant, because through this law it's not visible, and if you respect these amendments then I'm willing to be sure and support this law if you don't respect it I'm sure you're working in the interest of the big ones and that you've done all this like I did and said through those of your own who represent the interests of your companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34857	Thank you. Vladimir Bilek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34858	Here's a distinguished colleague of yours you've been based on exactly the economic program, and these 16 segments of the evaluation that you just mentioned when in those blackest prognosis you've talked about here, five points there, four points there were almost 40 points all together. When it counts and 20 points that he owns, and so far in peaceful possession and that price, no one can take away his land. So the intensity of this law is not that large ones take over small ones, that is, to take away their land, but those who have been hired, those who work, to keep working first and foremost on their land, those who exist and those who exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34859	Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34860	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, especially if you took one contest from your local self-government and you knew it by heart then you would see that the right of the championship has an OPG holder whose agriculture is a basic activity and is registered in a register for at least 2 years. I only wanted to work on this amendment and it has a basic working relationship, he and his family, and on that basis. And that's what interests us, it's the preoccupation of our village and the rest, and for survival, and for employment, and for land gain. This second, I've listed everything to you, how much points they're going to be, how many points they're going to be, they're all questionable. I told you everything was on vervain, playing what the law says is an evaluation of the economic program. 60 points no one can reach except the big ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34861	Igor Czech, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34862	Thank you. Dear colleague Djakic, you referred in your debate to article 24 which I also mentioned on behalf of the club. It is precisely that the investor is exempt from paying fees in the construction of a golf course in a narrow sense, it is proposed to create conditions for starting investment in tourism i.e. For the greater interest of investors in investment in golf courses. We know who's gonna invest in those golf courses. It will not be an average Croatian citizen, it is likely to be foreign investors of billionaires. They will be safe and that compensation will not be a particular burden for them, but this fee is a special burden if, for example, the county or the regional self-government unit wants to open up a health home in a particular municipality and has to pay that compensation, and we know how much health care is needed to protect our population's health, protect our citizens' health, then I really don't see why we don't get rid of the payments and the units of the regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34863	Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34864	Well, you're a good colleague of the Czech Republic, and you've noticed well what it is, which is in article 24 of the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. That interests are different, there are those who always knock on doors and open. Because of various ways and because of their will and will, they are released regardless of which they are multibillionaires, which are companies or who knows who is behind that capital. They will be released until these units of local self-government... Lands that have been for the purposes of general good, civil good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Surely they will have to pay for the re-use of this land, and therefore, if they had respected this amendment, they would certainly have helped, and perhaps your amendments to work would have made them even better for local self-government units, regional self-government in building the infrastructure needed for both schools and health homes, and for all those institutions that are certainly needed in one unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34865	We're continuing the debate. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34866	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's the minister says we've been repeating ourselves all day but I have to say something that certainly is the purpose of this law and the intensity of this law as a new law on agricultural land but probably all other laws and regulations in the area of agriculture. First of all, whether these 2 million 695, 037 ha of agricultural land were now accurate or not. Although it is from 2005 data but let's say it is so, that it is put into operation as soon as possible and that the land is owned by the Republic of Croatia so that it can be leased, sold or whatever. Or by encouraging measures and land that is privately owned, it is brought to the fore and for the purpose of processing it as agricultural land. That is why, Mr. Minister, we would like it because when the law changes the existing law then it seeks to be better, and it seeks to achieve what has been done by the current law as it writes here and the implementation of the law so far has failed to achieve, so the unprocessed land or land of agricultural land that has remained out of use is still very high. We are therefore persistent in commenting on what we think is good or what we think is not good in this bill. We see that you adopted some remarks from your first reading. Mostly I'd say nomotechnical improvements to which we corrected the text of the law but you didn't adopt some important remarks. Therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will submit amendments to some articles, and first of all, I regret that you did not accept my first reading remark and that you missed the opportunity to correctly define the term of agricultural land so that it would not, as in practice, overlap with the definition of building land. So to say that agricultural land within the meaning of this law is all these surfaces, oranices, gardens and pastures that are not within the boundaries of the construction area because in Article 14, you use something that I think is right. And that's right, you use the term undeveloped building land owned by a state that, by its useful property, agricultural land and that's right. And I asked you to determine in this law the moment of re-use to be clear because it is logical that the re-use was made at the moment of the change of spatial planning documentation when this land entered the building area, and the moment of payment, so the one-time payment of the fee takes place when someone goes into the intended construction on that particle which is a useful agricultural property because it is still in the cadastre of meadows but is in the building area. I'm telling you that it is in practice, but now it turns out that the practice is illegal because the landowner does not ask when registering a change of ownership within the building area of no housewife, and that means that he cannot control whether it is such a defined building land in the heart of Zagreb, perhaps a stranger. So here's why we're going to make the amendment, so I'm asking you to consider accepting it. Secondly, the reason for the law states that the sale of agricultural land is excluded. I again argue that this is not true because Article 50 speaks about selling by direct contract, so what is excluded by this law is definitely a sale through a public tender but has remained very much a direct contract. I see that you have accepted the remarks that were to limit the square, or surface, possible area that goes for sale by direct contract, so you have introduced that it is one hectare or 0.2 ha in the Adriatic region but only for adjacent cadastrian particles. Which means that it remains in force that an unlimited area of agricultural land can be sold by direct contract by means of a direct contract if the particle cannot be accessed but only through the ownership particle of the one requesting the purchase. Equally for sale to those for whom the construction documentation has been obtained and when it is brought to an economic function that is not agricultural, which is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, who, as well as where it decides, it should not stand and should. And here's the point of the first article of the 50th that says something that I don't see the reason for, and I'd like to ask you, Mr. Minister, to explain it to us. It says that cadastral land particles used by users of houses owned by the Republic of Croatia managed by the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation will be sold directly. As much as I think about it, I can't figure out why someone who uses a house owned by the Republic of Croatia is not its owner, so why would it be sold directly by a agricultural particle to become the owner of a agricultural particle and not the owner of a house. So the user's home. What logic does it have that it does not go into lease like all other farmers who want to farm land and who can only get it in lease under this law, and cannot get it by selling and by direct contract. So this is absolutely an explanation, maybe there's someone smart, I don't see him here. What this law should further be done, it is certainly not that we are getting crys like this, here are farmers from Slavonia, diaphragm, gender and fertility, writing and crying that parliamentary representatives are doing something about the adoption of this law because they say that large corporations, not to advertise them and not to mention them now, we all know what they are, have solved all their property and legal problems, and 5% of them are in total agricultural production, and small family economies and crafts have not solved almost anything of their problems, and they are 95% in agricultural production. It's not a good ratio, and so some big ones today say they don't have any more, swears they won't buy anything with a direct contract, of course they won't because they've already solved all their issues with concessions or purchases. Furthermore, I would like to warn the question of the exemption from payment of compensation, that certainly those persons who are exempt from payment are included in the compensation and institutions which are founders of not only the Republic of Croatia, but also units of local and regional self-government because it is also about investing and building for public purposes and general good, and when they are founders of the unit of local self-government. And also when giving for use without a public call, we have also intervened with the amendment, I suggest that this land can be assigned not only to scientific and teaching needs and activities in the field of agriculture for the institutions which are the founder of the Republic of Croatia but also to the founders of the unit of local and regional self-government, and also to allow all non-profit organisations dealing with rehabilitation and rehabilitation activities to enable them to be awarded by direct contracts of a certain amount of agricultural land. I'm thinking perhaps primarily of some associations that are involved in the treatment of addicts or therapeutic riding or other rehabilitation and rehabilitation business. Furthermore, what I would like to warn myself about, and I no longer feel like teaching all the time, but here I will look back at Article 29, so also in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 when you say who can be a participant of the lease call and the lease for the ponds, so you list some people, that I do not repeat and finally tell other natural and legal persons. So if all other natural and legal persons can then it is unnecessary to list who but to tell all natural and legal persons who have fulfilled their obligations under the previous lease, or not all, those who have not settled and cannot. If you mean something else then it's not properly written.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34867	Thank you very much, colleague. The replica has Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34868	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrin, so I can no longer believe that we are listening to this side of you all the time, by the HDZ advocate words big and small and then objecting this is for the big, this is for the big. Who even made it possible for someone to become so big that they could be such objections. Then on the other hand, you say big problems have been solved, and little problems haven't been solved. So it shifts the ball that within a year we should have solved all the problems of the small, or the OPGs, and all the problems of the big ones have already been solved by someone before us. So I wonder who solved it, who made it possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34869	Replication response, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34870	Thank you very much. Come on, buddy, let's keep us up what they used to be, what they are, so now we're passing the law, we're bringing it in pro-furo. I'm showing you this, this is written by farmers, so something's holding them back, and it's hard for them, and when we pass the law, we get rid of that law so they can get better. Those who have been solved, I will not look back at at all are resolved in 2010, 2011 or perhaps during 2012 check well when the Minister hitched a stop to the application of the Agricultural Land Act that was in force and told local units not to sell, stop, you will not sell anything else, but we will continue to share the concessions we want. Here are other such laws in Croatia that are in force, but which ministers simply will not implement because they are not willing to do so. But some people are very keen to implement, they say they must be there somewhere in the Vukovar area that laws must be implemented that are in force. I think all laws of the Croatians must be implemented, unless there are some exceptions in the law itself, such as the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the constitutional law has some exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34871	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34872	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, Lovrin, you're right. Not only did this letter of the peasant associations present here at the gallery today, they made clear their doubts about this law because of the nepotism which is an eclectic example of Mrs Vesna Kuterovac, which is an eclectic example of the Ministry of Agriculture at Tatjana Karačić. These are the things people say, tell the press, the journalists write that there is not a word of it in this House today by the minister. So tell us why you're the one who's been keeping it a secret, why he's hidden the conflict of interest that's eclectically proven. There's no talking about it today. It's about employment for the general good of the former agriculture minister. He confessed. It would be nice for them today to confess their sins, confess their sins and say what they did, which was illegal or what was in conflict of interest. They speak clearly of the associations of peasants they suspect and why they doubt this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34873	Replication response, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34874	Well, you've brought your colleague Djakic here with a number of suspicions. I wouldn't really talk without solid evidence. It's not my style and way, but certainly the first thing in the fight against nepotism, corruption, organised crime, etc. is the transparency of the law as a prevention of corruption. So we try to make the laws clear, that they don't leave room for corrupt activities, and we have institutions, we have the State's Attorney's Office, we have a finally established Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. I hope it will address the recent conflicts of interest of current officials because I hear it deals with some conflicts of interest of the 2004 officials, so that is completely pointless. So I invite them to deal with recent cases because then it makes sense. Therefore, in this respect, it is necessary to achieve as long as Article 50 of this Law on direct sale of agricultural land, which is otherwise prohibited from being sold clearly, transparently in public tenders so far will be suitable ground for corruption. I am equally sorry that the Constitutional Court abolished some of the provisions of the former Agricultural Land Act as regards the amount of re-use because this fee, the high compensation for the re-use of agricultural land into construction was a major disturbance and a disturbance to the precisely of the land that we talked about this morning, which was happening. If they paid those 50% of the price or 100% of the cost of building land if they were to redeploy it then they wouldn't have any interest in conflicting interest, and perhaps for abuse of position and power to buy the land cheaply as a farm, then re-use it in their local unit and then sell it as a construction unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34875	Thank you, colleague. It's time for my colleague Shimo Djurdjevic's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34876	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. And what to say after a whole day's debate on this law, only to say that he is against the farmers of Croatia, mainly the farmers of my Slavonia, who all in turn and associations and individuals are not for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm also the kid who sat down. My parents fed and trained us seven children from 13 acres of the country, and we all graduated from schools and colleges. But today, if you could teach two or one doubt at 14 o’clock today. The last time I spoke was when it was the first reading, I'm going to do it again, so don't be surprised if I repeat some things the third, fourth time. It's about the next one. All of our municipalities have made available programmes where they have taken into account the return, lease, concession and sale and of course received consent from the ministry to these available programmes. But until today when it comes to the return, when it comes to the country that the communist system unjustly took away through the maximum so-called. You seniors remember it or you heard about it. However, some of our farmers have received solutions but have not been introduced into possession. It's not a mistake from the Ministry of Agriculture, it's a mistake from the Department of State Administration on the ground, a catastra that didn't bring people into possession. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of our peasants, as the DORH says, illegal possession of such property is 80,000 hectares that, year after year, and over the last 10 years, they get confirmation that they're processing this and that kind of land so they can get support. We are today I would say at a certain turning point and I really support farmers who are here today and I welcome them who say that this is a historic moment for the Slavonian village and for Slavonic agriculture. Well, yeah, the question is whether or not to be, that's right. What Djuka Begovic said to me, take everything, but we don't give the country, and that's exactly what it is. Why do I need buildings, stables, houses, concretes, armatures if I don't have land, and if that's my basic activity? Of course, people have invested a lot, as well as the budget of the Republic of Croatia, that this and such Croatian peasants are able to have machinery, to have buildings, to have farms. I don't know what the state budget didn't support, and he gave it justifiably for the reason that our farmers would be ready to enter this harshly in a hundred days, I would say the European market for agricultural products and be competitive. There they went I don't know my colleague Shuker is here, I don't know exactly in billions of kunas over the past period how much our farmers got to support not only the heated cultures and the machinery and everything else and the facilities and also the multi-year plantations. Our farmers also brought land to certain cultures by decommissioning, tampering, undermining and all, plowing and all the shops. However, the question is whether he will be able to keep it. In this competition followed by those declared by the DORH by illegal property should have the advantage. If this is not done, they will lose their country and certainly what counterpart Milinkovic said at the Employment Office. I'm telling you colleagues and colleagues, I don't want to preach here, there's a representative from Slavonia, Slavonia dies or dies. Slavonian villages such as my Vrpolje at the intersection of the railways and roads in it today have 50 houses of gas, electricity, water, telephone, get in and live. But nothing's happening. The settlement that is at the intersection of the railways and roads and the rest of the settlements are empty, and the people have gone to the cities. And this and such a farming population, their age is higher than the average in Europe. If we want to keep this young farmer who is now educated and who is applying all modern agrotechnical measures in the Croatian Slavonian village, we must certainly smartly include this land in order to give him this agricultural land and to be extremely just in this process so that he does not lose what he had, leave this village and go to Zagreb or EU countries. There's something I'd like to say here, colleagues and colleagues, about article 31, and it's about organic production. Those agricultural economies that have brought land to organic production, and we know that this process lasts about 3 to 4 years, they should retain those particles in the next and future competitions because they have invested significant funds in organic production all these years. My colleague, Roksandić, said something about pasaring, is mainly done along the Drava River, Sava, Danube, where people have been pasharing for centuries. The Brod-Posavia County, which is also known as the Minister of Mr. Jakovina, is our eastern part of Sikirevac, Novi Grad and all the way to Slavonski Brod, but the cattle return to their stables. However, the second part of the county west around Stara Gradiška and other settlements around Stara Gradiška have held 6, 7 months of cattle in the field for centuries and have received support for the cow-body system. They got support so the cow-body system. A cow is kidnapped, a calf is next to a cow in a field of six, seven months, and only she, these cows are not breast-feeding, exclusively for the production of meat for slaughtering, are they? However, people have received support and now they have nowhere to go. I mean, if people have traditionally been doing it for hundreds of years and more, so why can't they be enabled, and we're going down the road to Slavonski Brod, you see where the shepherds look like forests and plants, and you see where it doesn't seem. Why would Croatian forests, why Croatian waters, why would that land that was not processed and owned by the Republic of Croatia not be allowed to pass there? And of course those same people who've been doing it for years have three, four, five, and ten cows, that's their income, dear friends. It's their income, they've lived for years. And they need to be enabled. I've been commenting on it for the last time, but I didn't get the answer. The price of the lease should go to municipalities and counties and 10% to the state budget. Why? Let them be strictly dedicated funds of that 90%. And the municipalities, in my opinion, would owe these strict means of return to agriculture, which is the arrangement of third and fourth-row channels and for the measurement of agricultural land. That's what I'm talking about the fifth, sixth, I don't know how many times I'm talking about, maybe I'm boring. Someone's gonna say this guy knows nothing but repeats what he's already said five or six times. But gentlemen, if we don't take the measurements, there's nothing available. It is therefore necessary to pool funds, municipalities, cities that have state-owned land, municipalities, cities, Countys and the State Geodesy Administration. So, the state budget to finally make those surfaces, and mostly those small-boiled islands along the coast and in mountain-mounted areas, finally have a measurement. Here we have heirs all over the world from Canada, Australia to Western Europe and Croatia. We have to do it sometime. And who's gonna do it if we don't do it from municipal, city, county and state budgets? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd suggest something, I haven't consulted with my club, and I don't have to, because of everything that my colleagues and colleagues have brought to the clubs, and we're in an individual debate, and we're also in replicas. I'm done. I'm sorry, Madam Vice President. [[Top Zgrebec: Switch to suggestion because time is up.]] I think we've met the requirements of Article 161 of our Rules of Procedure so we can go to third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34877	Thank you very much. Replica, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34878	Thank you very much. Well, you guys aren't boring to repeat, you have to repeat because this law didn't do what we were supposed to do and what we suggested as an observation in the first reading, but it wasn't accepted, which is to determine that lease fees and the re-use of agricultural land in the building land and those going into the state budget will be used strictly for agriculture purposes. So, either to clean the canals, for catastra-geoedetic measurement, land-booking, etc., etc. However, the state maintains the need to order and prescribe units of local self-government that they will benefit from their share of income, and I repeat that they have to do what is the authority of the state, not theirs. But what is the state going to do with its 25% income? It doesn't say anywhere, nor obliges itself to say so from the agricultural fund that it invests again in the development of agriculture by cleaning the canals in one way or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34879	The answer to the replica Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34880	Thank you very much. I know that the Agency must and will have certain costs, but if we have all been centralized, I mean what we take from the agricultural land that we have to pay him back and agree with colleagues Anna with you and when I take a bigger word for the replica, I would ask the other clubs that are present here and those who are not there to consider our colleagues and colleagues on the article of our Rules of Procedure 161.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34881	I warn you that you must make a written proposal, a conclusion. It's Joseph Boric's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34882	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. So here's almost a day's debate about the Agricultural Land Act. In the second reading, he obviously failed to meet the expectations of either parliamentary representatives or Croatian peasants. We see the remarks coming most from the opposition but also from the ruling coalition. The fact is also a conclusion which can be drawn from the fact that only such a bill satisfied the Government who took the right to claim through the bill that Slavonia, Istria and Dalmatia from Zagreb are better seen than from these areas. How do you even get up against that attitude? I think it's hard and hard because we've been testifying to it for a year and a half. The claim that the Agency for Agricultural Land with its employees is an office that does not see beyond Sava and perhaps even a few hundred meters around will know what a municipality, a village, a city, better than the people who live there is not logical and unsustainable and will create only problems for everyone and most of all those who want to live and work on the land that they want to get. We have problems with this decentralised system and it may simply be the biggest source of all the problems that we face in Croatia in the Republic of Croatia. In the history of the establishment of the agency, as far as I know, only one agency has its headquarters outside Zagreb and it is the Public Line Coastal Transport Agency in Split. Everyone else is in Zagreb. Here's my colleague Bacic and another one for the inner waterways in Vukovar. These agencies function just as well as possible in Zagreb, but why at least here through the bill we don't give them the opportunity to have the headquarters of the agency there in Slavonia, so at least there are people who can find some satisfaction if they can't get through some legal proposals, i.e. through the articles of this law. The minister showed us two schemes today and explained them in a more transparent and fast procedure. Then he showed the first one. He says this has been so far, it has multiple squares and then he shows another one, this one has fewer squares. We'll be faster and more transparent. That doesn't make sense. The less squares, the more transparency is lost. There's no control system. Because if we want to think about it that way, then the simplest thing is to create a scheme with only one box in which the Ministry of Agriculture would write the cabinet of the minister. All will be resolved in the ministry or cabinet and all procedures will then become unnecessary and transparency maximum. It's completely wrong. I think the procedure so far may have been somewhat slower, but it certainly wasn't transparent. But the fact is that this government doesn't want the decentralisation of rights but exclusively obligations and costs and we've been witnessing it for a full year and a half. It keeps hitting on local self-government and now we see regional ones, simply as these units of local self-government and regionals write to us, express dissatisfaction with this bill. The government simply doesn't want to listen to them, not through their associations, not individually. Because we heard yesterday that the government owns the i.e. The Prime Minister sophisticated absolute knowledge that we from rural areas simply, to which we from rural areas simply cannot come. They're simply inaccessible, quite wrong. Because here I personally don't know, I'm not a great legal expert, but it's hard to find an example of an article like article 30 that discriminates on these small ones compared to the big ones on the wrongly set criteria. They already have a vain battle in the beginning. Simply like this system of points tells them not to enter into any system or relationship or search for a state country at all. Why? Because the big ones at the start have solved 100% of their property. That's the first major problem. 100% have been solved. They can develop, they can borrow, they can look for new developments and they will meet much better criteria from the economic programme. These little ones may have solved in about twenty, thirty percent of the property's legal relations and ownership. So who's gonna lease them or lease them any credit, which bank? None. It doesn't exist. What can I do? I can pawn my own property. Whether it'll be enough for them to develop, that I can come up with some kind of development program at all. Hard, especially with such criteria, i.e. A point that began with one criterion with 60 points eliminated by the other two who became absolutely unnecessary. And I suggested and I don't know why you don't want to adopt the criteria in which the owner in peaceful possession will have 40 economic programs of 40 and 20 prices. Then we have three combinations that can be won. win the contest. The owner with the price, the owner with the economic programme and the price economic program. Easy, only the economic program gets these two others don't matter at all. And especially in the work concerning the criteria that you say are transparent, that they are clearly listed as being a problem in line with this law to write what you think and what will end up in this famous government regulation and what these 60 points will apply to, so that we know exactly and that the Croatian peasant already knows through the bill what is waiting for him and what can be fulfilled by all of these points. This way, he can only expect something else entirely, and he'll certainly be surprised. The second thing I want to look at is the story of the lease as the best solution and the ban on selling as the worst solution ever. This story has been going on for a long time, and it is said that the ban on sales is actually the last line of defence for today's Croatian Government of Interests. It's completely illogical because the moment we're talking about sales and public companies and banks we're putting a thousand metres of square agricultural land as an important strategic interest and we've already had it and how people who have been able to buy so far will feel, they've achieved and acquired property, and everyone else will never be able to get property at the state level under this bill ever again. Because it's a very clear policy of this government. She doesn't want an independent, wealthy peasant, and that's why she's punishing him. It also punishes him by reducing incentives and failing to pay them on time, but also by making it impossible for him to acquire ownership rights on state land. Because this peasant obviously can't have a good car or a nice house or a good tractor because there's a story going right away that he manipulated something, misused or encouraged, or some of the intentions that the agriculture ministry intended for him, and he just shouldn't have. He just shouldn't have. It's completely illogical and it reminds me of some relic of former times or socialism. Why can't a Croatian peasant have all that and why he keeps discrediting it. Smart EU policies and their countries have long solved what we are talking about today, which is the rounding of land, and they have made it possible to sell and round and in the past 30 years, and for three to four times as much as we had 30 years ago, and there they have found both competitiveness and cheaper food and higher income and higher employment. And I say once again until we recognize to ourselves that the state and agriculture and tourism as primary branches are difficult for us to move forward and we have to adapt the system to that because until we solve it to neither the peasant nor the tourism, nor the tourists, and especially the treasures of the Croatian budget or the state budget will be no good. Here's to ending it one more time I'm going to repeat what I already said today that this law is a disaster for the Croatian village and peasants because the government is asking how we heard from the minister that we believe in her word and I'm talking about 29. And that's the word that this government is according to these peasants so far has broken countless times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34883	My colleague Branko Bacic is on the line for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34884	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's after nine, almost ten hours to discuss the Agricultural Land Act is hard to say, which is not very clear in the debate. But I would like to touch one piece that seems to me to be part of Croatia, which today seemed to me was not enough to talk about. It is called the Neretva Valley, the Neretva Valley, the production of agrum and other agricultural products. But before that, I must say that I, too, must say to the Government that lately the representatives of the government, or representatives of the Kukuriku Coalition, are offering almost all the legal solutions in a certain way the centralisation of administrative affairs in Croatia. Today it is this law that centralizes the agricultural land-owned business. Yesterday, through the Nature Protection Act, we saw that the Government is keen to unite, centralise management tasks in specific areas, protected areas of nature through the formation of a park central agency. A year ago, we also did not believe too much of local self-government and the regional self-government to centralised businesses through the energy sector's monitoring and business centre and investment in the energy sector, and today we can conclude that this attempt to centralise the business that has been put into the power of the energy sector's monitoring and business centre has not yielded very good results. Although he's had a total debate. I don't see why the government's representatives while they were in opposition were so insolent with the legislative proposals advocated the day of decentralisation of Croatia and now they have taken responsibility for the conduct of Croatia precisely by contradicting the laws' proposals they were doing while they were at the opposition. But there was a lot of talk about it today, and I don't want to talk about it anymore. Someone said that there may be a reason why the local elections are getting closer to us, so perhaps the rulings estimate that these elections will go badly and that the jobs they have given to the counties will be practically done by someone else. Well, then it's better to centralize where the Kukuriku coalition is now acting as a government. What I wanted to say was why I came forward, it is the fact that this law does not recognise the valley of Neretva as an area of special national importance with a series of specificities inextricably linked to the creation and tradition of work and life in this unique space. Here, above all, we are referring to relatively small holdings by family farms around two ha as a result of the historical context but also today economically acceptable given the high share of labour in the total cost of production. This is true for the breeding of mandarins, so for the growing of early and winter vegetables. The second thing that I should also point out in this law, in particular, is that this proposal for a law on agricultural land does not clearly determine the status of users of state-owned agricultural land, which raised several years of mandarin plantation in accordance with then applicable rules which have not been amortised by the term of the lease so far. In this regard, I have also proposed an amendment to the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, which would add another paragraph to the amendment in Article 30(1), which reads: "exceptionally from the order of the right of the Championship on the lease when the subject of the agricultural land lease is owned by the state on which the multiannual lease is raised, the leaser has the right to use the land so far on the basis of a valid lease contract preceded by the public tender and duly fulfils his contractual obligations and provided that he accepts the highest offered rental price." So this amendment, which I have proposed, is, in fact, the amendment of the Mandarin Association, the Mandarin producer's association in the Neretva Valley, which requested that in a certain way valorise or highlight the difference between the raising of long-term plantations and the one-year-old plantation, because they were based on the law on agricultural land and, in accordance with the programme of availability for agricultural land owned by the state in the public tender in 2006 and 2007, they received the basis of the lease agreement on which the State Attorney's Office granted consent, they were given the opportunity to raise the mandarin plantations over the next ten years. The fact is that these plantations cannot be amortised in such a short period of time and require that the basis of this law enable them to, if they accept the highest offered price of leases to them who have raised these plantations and who have not isolated them during the time that has passed since the contract was signed, allow them to at this accepted most favourable cost of teaching with the cultivation of mandarins. Mandarins are today an important product in the Neretva Valley. For your information, the first seedlings were built or raised in 1954. In the year and this intense planting lasted until the end of the 1980s but only 16 thousand tonnes were produced before the Homeland War in the Neretva Valley. The fact that, after the Homeland War, the Mandarin meant best in the Neretva Valley, the fact that in 2012 it was downgraded if I could say a record in the Neretva Valley when 60 thousand tonnes of mandarin were produced, of which 75% went to export and the proceeds from exports from sold mandarins amounted to 27m euros. The fact is further that after raising the orchards of mandarin, only the first harvest is after five years and the full birth of the Mandarin is after ten between 10 and 15 years. Thus, when they signed the contract for ten years, they were aware that they would hardly be able to isolate everything they had invested in those orchards, in the orchards of the Mandarin. For this reason, we now think that this law should really respect that there are people there and that such economies in the Neretva valley, for example, in the town of Obuzen, signed 652 OPG that the lease granted 800 ha of land in the Neretva Valley and that the maximum area per economy was 2 and a half ha. It is therefore clear from this data that today a large number of citizens in the Neretva valley as well as the surrounding municipalities and also the town of Metkovic have found a way through this programme to find their source of income for normal life through crisis periods in Croatia and in Europe, and we believe that, given that the procedure which they have become the tenants of these Mandarins has been implemented in accordance with the law by the Law on Agricultural Land, the city of Opusen and other municipalities have acted according to the law. They got the ministry's consent, called a contest. A large number of defenders, naked defenders who had no other way to secure their existence have entered this program. So today I expect Mr. Ministers to accept an amendment that would certainly mean a lot to these family economies that, as I said in the Neretva Valley, has over 652. In contact with the representatives of this association and their president, who asked me to bring this amendment to the Association of Mandarin Producers on behalf of them, they also expected the representatives of the ministry to receive them in a special conversation with the ministry's representatives to bring the problem into line. The meeting did not occur, but there may have been some contact, but here I am asking you on behalf of all the producers of Mandarin in the Neretva Valley, especially those who have signed such contracts under the basis of the law and the basis of the state programme, to adopt this amendment in order to permanently resolve the status of persons, citizens, agricultural producers who, in Neretva, have, by law, become legal tenants of agricultural land owned by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34885	Thank you. Now we'll hear the final debate on behalf of the HDSSB Club. The honourable representative, Zoran Vinkovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34886	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary and us the few remaining MPs and MPs we stayed in the assembly. The HDSSB Club requires even appeals here in accordance with both the Rules of Procedure and the one published in the National Journal and the one that is still not that this law therefore has a business possibility that this law goes into third reading because we believe that this should be of interest to us also to the representatives, the interest of the Ministry or the interest of all those who are now engaged in agricultural production in the field of the Republic of Croatia, given that this law is indeed a law that introduces major centralisation on one small door. This second reading and the proposal in the second reading have not solved key problems and family farms. So I am not talking about small or large because today we are dealing with agricultural production in the light of the lack of a farming strategy, the absence of the objective of agricultural production, given I would even say the wild market for agricultural products, the fact that we import more agricultural products than we export and we have all the opportunities for me not to say intensive production but above all for the extraordinary possibility of exporting agricultural products and unfortunately that is not the case. And therefore, on all the facts that no matter what anyone thinks or mentions of certain jeeps or tensions in certain OPGs today, it is mostly hard work from morning till tomorrow and no matter what it drives, that these many OPGs and the reduction of support from the state budget, the reduction of funds for agriculture these years and a half were practically brought to one edge of existence. The HDSSB Club will go to certain amendments relating to certain redistributions. First of all, not wanting to abolish the possibilities of regional self-government in realising but existing programmes for which certain contracts have been signed. One of the biggest programmes is certainly a geodetic measurement where even the funds obtained from the lease or sale of agricultural land are not enough to carry out the geodetic measurement, that this is still a key problem of agriculture, putting agricultural land in full function. And with certain amendments that are related exclusively to the decision-making of local self-government but here, Mr. Minister, once again, I would say on behalf of all those who are engaged in agricultural production that a month delay this and the adoption of this law in a completely new form can indeed help Croatian agriculture and Croatian producers that in any case they will not mind. And first of all, in those months, let us see other options related to the Agricultural Land Act itself but also to the Agricultural Law. This is primarily the adoption of an overall strategy of Croatian agriculture, a Croatian production that does not exist at the moment or is completely outdated and I am calling for the burning problems to be solved at this time. This is to put into office and enable incentives for those who work today on agricultural land, who work and your guidance are not extended contracts and that here we all take responsibility together. I end up but not in a way to transfer our responsibility to, for example, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, but to realize that 12 and 5, not 5 to 12, but 12 and 5, and for family farms and for all Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34887	Does the Proposer's representative want to conclude? I'm asking Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34888	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I listened very carefully to the debate all day, and again on the one hand, I am so glad that the theme of the agricultural new final bill to the agricultural land has caused such an interest and such a tumultuous debate. On the other hand, I am saddened that in some ways there was again a lot of unfounded thesis and a lot of pathetic and demagogy throughout the story. It was here today, among other things, and that it would be perfectly passed by this law by consensus, I think you fellow Vinkovic, I think it's basically almost impossible. The conceptual differences in access, management and management of agricultural land between what we have referred to as a coalition government and identified as a strategic objective and what has been the feature of the current Agricultural Land Availability Act are equally uncompromising. I even think that any of you colleagues and colleagues would come to write that law would not find two equals that would overlap or each of you would have an opinion. I will try even though I have a lot of minutes not to use everything, and since I didn't want to continue this debate by focusing on each personal exposure, I'm going to try to kind of combine a little in the final word. The biggest problem is reportedly an economic programme. What is the purpose of Croatian agriculture? To produce better, more, cheaper, more competitive or to divide agricultural land by any criteria? I'm not going to mention how it's been so far and to collect incentives and to produce less and to become increasingly dependent on imports. I'm thinking first. And I'm sure all the real farmers will stand up for it first. Active agricultural producers are able to obtain important resources and remain state-owned. When I say the economic programme, how, what, so no economic programme and in law we put it to the government's regulation but there won't be something that Minister Jakovina will write in 15 minutes over his knee. In writing, we have said that we have created framework plans or drafts of all sublegal acts that go along with this law, gentlemen and solutions have been written, solutions have been prepared. For example, it is. a solution on the appointment of an expert commission for the establishment of a regulation and a form and method of evaluation of the economic programme for the use of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. except for the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Agricultural Land Agency, Agricultural Advisory Services, Croatian Agricultural Agency, Fisheries and Rural Development Agency, Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek, Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb, Faculty of Agriculture, Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek, Croatian Community of County, Association of Municipalities and Cities of the Republic of Croatia, Institute of Agriculture, Tourism Poreč, Croatian Agricultural Chambers, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Association of Employers, these are members who will be in that commission and who will ultimately make a proposal that we will send to the Government. So not something that's done over the knee and without a base, it's the law. The law is great, just because you attack him so much the law is great. I just didn't know if it was such a replica and so many attacks on him because the gentlemen upstairs at the gallery were mostly looking up. And if we're talking about this law now that was so very good and where you've been taking care of family economies so much. Shall we go back to numbers? 262 hectares were put into operation in 10 years only 62,000 755 hectares were sold 24%, and you said that was the most important way to make it available so far. And in the long lease, and especially in the priority concessions everything else is given. Buying 117 thousand 373 hectares or 45%, and prioritizing concessions 31% or 80 thousand 408 hectares. Was that a concern for family farms or all two months before the local elections we want to show that agricultural producers are the most important to us? This law will allow them to reach the resources for agricultural production, be sure. All our agricultural producers who are really engaged in agricultural production, who are real active agricultural producers will know how to get along well with the economic programme, just actually translate what they are doing and how and how they intend to further organise their agricultural production and run their family economy, present it through the programme and through the evaluation of the programme, come into a situation to run for agricultural land and get it. There was one question about who would go to Arcod about the pasture and who would be registered as the owner of Arcod? No one else owns it. The land is not transferred by property. I think that this way and through these regulations that are set out in this law, and also through sublegal acts, we have arranged for the use of common pastures. Of the other things that are listed as problematic centralised again, I think I've done it multiple times for both the speaker and the bench, and I've given enough arguments that this is taking responsibility, this is efficiency, this is expertise, this is the transparency of the system. It's weird that we're talking about the more efficient and transparent way of making agricultural land available so far, and we didn't even have a single base, we didn't have a system. We didn't have a computer system that would follow all these requirements and all these available and assigned ways. We've had loss of cases by ministry, random or intentional, we've had months or years of waiting for consent or something. This way it won't be. Through the system will be seen exactly when it was delivered, where it was delivered, who worked on the items, when it was solved and how it was delivered. Farmers will have the insight that all free parcels that are state-owned are going to be announced. We have also given the possibility through the law that the initiative must not be given by the local self-government unit but by interested agricultural producers if they know that there is state land on their territory that is not as such in function, and the local self-government unit is not sufficiently teamed either human, or materially, or financially, or in any way to make it spotless and fast. I never said that all units of local self-government were doing a bad job, that the local sheriffs and so on were to blame for having such defeating and poor results on the availability of agricultural land. But there was a terrible amount of irregularities throughout the process. From too many OPGs to the same home address to a very non-transparent way of conducting the competition and selection itself. Ecology and the environment, my dear colleague and friend Milinkovic who always has very special discussions about me very little in the whole story today wasn't so much about milk, but on the one hand, it's a terrible concern for family economies, and on the other hand, suddenly we mention environmentalism and the environment. I'm having a little bit of that left undefined what's more important to us and what part of it is. Normally, all that are protected areas, which are parks and similar forms, in any case, that we will make and manage and control together with the rest of the ministry, that is, those who should be there, but we will put this land into operation, will be able to manage. There were speeches and references to land in the economic and construction zones, i.e. overlapping term and construction land, issue of the moment of re-use, or charge. Over 550 units of local self-government, a terrible number of business zones have been built that stand empty. This law gave us the opportunity to put this land into a function of agricultural production by the time we have investors to fill all these zones. We don't go to permanent plantations, we don't go to contracts for more than 10 years with a clause when we have an investor who wants to work. After taking off the summer it is introduced into the investment, the lease contract is terminated. We're talking about the distribution of funds that come from the lease and the alleged misdetermination in the law on what these funds will be used for. So it's logical that the funds that are collected from that resource go back, whether through the arrangement of Polish roads, channel networks, measurement, preparation for circulation and the like. And so far there have been environmental regulations and all, so far, local self-government units have applied it. What's the problem now? Did we make something up? There were stories why local self-government units were now given 65% of the lease money, so because it's land on their territory, and the county only got 10%. Is it just 10%, as far as it's been in these 10 years the county's really been doing business in the business itself, from programs, from making, from consent, from the rest. No, they collected 25% of the proceeds from sales or leases or concessions, but generally the whole process, although they have professionals in the boards of directors for agriculture and the economy did not participate actively in this part. I'm talking about the large funds invested in agriculture. So logically, those counties that are strategic, positionally so placed that they have large quantities of agricultural land that it is their strategic definition and economy, but we also see that some counties have derived almost twice as much for sport as for agriculture, and they swear that it is a strategic interest and a strategic branch of the potential development of their county. Not to mention nearly 110 million kunas which the same counties or most counties did not pay in the state budget according to joint lending programmes, i.e. co-crediting end-users in a given part, and they collected these funds from agricultural producers. They didn't translocate them to the state budget as they were supposed to. Almost 110 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure this law will do what it aims to do, which is to speed up the availability of state agricultural land, increase the use of agricultural land, put into service so far unused state land, form the core of agricultural producers, active farmers or how we will call them who will be much more competitive in their business. In this way we also start the process of rounding up agricultural land, introduce greater discipline in the reuse of agricultural land and introduce much greater transparency through the information system that will be available and through which it will be able to be monitored as well as how it is available to agricultural land. Everything is measurable, the results are always not going to say in the field of mathematics, but it is very easy to see that in the previous 10 years according to the existing laws that we had put only 262000 hectares in any form of availability through reports that we will submit yearly we will very well see how much agency and ministry and this government is effective in putting this resource into office, the most important resource it has. And we'll also be able to monitor as much of that land as we can on you, big and small. I'll say it one more time, there's no big and small, there's only those who will, they know and can work. I know a very large number of agricultural producers that have excellent results, and... family economies with 1, 2, 3, 5, 10 employees and cries for agricultural land. They couldn't win so far. Through this law, through its production, through the organisation of its economies, they will be able to run and get land for lease. Agricultural land is the national wealth of the Republic of Croatia and will remain available through this model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34889	Thank you, too. It's time for the bonding replicas. First respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34890	They're not necessarily replicas. So here's the thing, since 2001, I don't know what kind of change to this law. I am one of those who claim that the Holy Scriptures do not change, and the laws can be changed. That's what this Agricultural Land Act shows. And it has been changed by ministers and ministers and state secretaries, believe the ministers that they have all defended the laws they have proposed, that it is a revolution that will improve agricultural production, that this law will make family economies better living in Croatia, but it has not happened so, so I advise you never to say again, and believe that we will have very soon changes and additions to this law. And what I would particularly like to point out is that many units of local self-government have carried out competitions under the law, that there have been no malfeasances, that in most of these cases it was the ministry that braked not only the programmes but also the decisions made in these competitions. And believe me, even now, no matter who's in the commission, here in the case of the city of Djakova, it was SDP and HNS at the time I wasn't in the HDSSB, nor was I a member of the commission. Only in this last competition was one member of the HDSSB. And that within 12 years, the ministry did not bring in 4 legal contests, or give consent to a certain part of the competition. I didn't want to go with the constitutional lawsuits either, but there were particles on which there was no objection at all. Here's my appeal one more time, time's up, we're going to the third reading. There is plenty of time if we really want to solve the problem and this should be organic law and bring consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34891	Thank you. There's no need to answer this replica. Next replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34892	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's the Honorable Minister you said in your final debate that the law is excellent and that's why I've been here almost two days before and I've been discussing it quite illogically. So she wouldn't be great enough for us to discuss him for maybe two hours. It's like a student who got a 5 from a control or from an exam you yell at him all day long, and the one who got one you tell him you'll be better next time. It's completely illogical. Then you said this was the transparency of the system, and you explained it to us today with that scheme of yours, so you said now we have less squares, we're going to be transparent. That's not true. Less squares, less transparency, and the speed is completely irrelevant. And finally these, yours, this famous economic program he's non-transparent, we don't know the criteria. You say now you'll form a commission. Well, we've all been in executive power here. We know how rules are done. This commission will eventually do what you want as a minister, and we don't know that, and we're discussing it today. And the illogical situation is that one criterion with 60 automatically cancels the other two that have 20. Here's the minister of administration, a good mathematician, an informer, who knows numbers, so he says himself whether it's normal for you to put three criteria and then you have one that's right in the beginning of the overpowering two. So what do we need those two for? Let's take 'em off, they're just bothering 'cause there's no formula for your little masters, i.e. this small family economy in general, given the state of ownership of the power to enter such a race. And I'd like to ask you at the end which bank lends credit to a possible lease contract so that the system can be further upgraded and developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34893	This replica is answered by the minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, since you've already used this illustration about someone who's bad, and they've been yelling at him all day, she's standing in the line and she can only be encouraging if you're bad, so you're gonna take some lessons out of it. But then you should be yelled at by someone who's better than you, not someone who's fallen a few classes in the course of that school program that he's been yelling at you for. It's usually this. Under 30% of the agricultural land you put into operation a 10-year point. The most important thing in the whole story is inefficiencies, slowness, intransparency and failure to implement the programme so far. You're talking about protecting family economies again. Well, there's no one who likes these people more than I do as a resolute minister because again, I need to say that you've divided 31% of the land you've given into priority concessions. In the priority concession, it was not possible to obtain a family agricultural holding. ... No. I'm just a little more temperamental. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You're talking about, uh, some things that haven't even been talked about since the first reading. [[Intruder Stazic: So you can hear him.]] You were a colleague now who said that we should go to the agency headquarters in Slavonia, that we don't have any agencies there. The Croatian Food Centre is in Slavonia based in Osijek, so it is not one of the six agencies that are related to my ministry one has headquarters in Osijek. But I'm sure this agency will have a branch in Osijek and the first one to work when I speak regionally will be the one. But all these hardworking people from the local government through their work via the Internet, through all those communication channels and opportunities and personally on the commissions will give their pain to make the whole process as good as possible. When we're talking about, there was an observation about the number of homes so it'll be more transparent, it'll be more efficient, it'll be more efficient because it's faster, but it'll be more transparent because all the participants at any moment, I can see what's done. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] You couldn't do it because it worked manually, worked far from the eyes of the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34895	I thank the ministers. The next replica and Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you say nothing was right. Here's from your presentation sent to you by Kuterec says it's '95. the year was 3 and a half acres on average the size of the property. 2003. 2.4 acres, then 2010. 5.6 acres. I don't know what this increase in family property means. We're talking about averages. Oh, no? That's the presentation you have, no, the one he sent you from his e-mail. So tell me when the pots get mixed up then you're talking about so much untapped agricultural land. So far, farmers on municipal councils have brought agreement on the availability of agricultural land, on the availability plan. They also made decisions on whom the commission had determined that criteria could be passed which were clear and transparent. I've shown them to you 100 times and read them to you today. I think what you're talking about when these really were the criteria that included Croatian defenders who deal with agricultural production, they're not here today. Family farms in the first place. And today we wanted to and we're talking about the need to fix the law with what must be in the interest of the family farms, and that is the only way it will be transparent in the interest of our peasants. This is how you gave the law to those who wrote it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34897	Minister Jakovina answers this line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You just have to tell me a respected colleague Djakic which of those 18 OPGs from the same address was the highest priority or depending on how many cadastrian particles there were, so he appeared more and then came up to 500, 600, 800 hectares and became and remained small. Either the criteria were quite often party, tribal, relative, or similar. ... If we're going to talk nonsense and the way you mentioned it today, I didn't want to react to that unfortunate presentation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A month and a half ago, we shared that presentation with the press after the government's session. So that those insinuations for Mr. Kuterovac, who, apropos of all, was the secretary of state in your ministry, would have made sense that he was forging your law, or the law that he was implementing at the time. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34899	My friend Giaquicho, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34900	And he didn't write us the law, so don't worry, Mr. Djakic. Well, I told you we shared that presentation a month and a half ago with the press. What you're waving and doing and telling the truth is your problem. You're talking about assistant Kuterovac-Ganter and you should know that the person who was 27 years old was a doctor, who had previously been a doctor and taught at the university, who is extremely professional and has a lot of professional work. God forbid there were many more young educated people at the level of state secretary and assistant ministers in the past few years. All the other insinuations, if you have anything to say, if you have evidence, then go ahead and have the competent institutions to do it. But only the story of the story doesn't hold water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34901	I would kindly ask you to behave in accordance with the position you are taking in this country and where you are located. To stop tossing the minister, to stop disturbing other people when they're talking. The last replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34902	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, you've been trying to do something here all day. So be specific once, and say it all the way. However, two things unfortunately sadden me after a whole day's debate because I've been patiently listening here today, trying to get some answers, you haven't been able to convince me of all that you're saying, and neither are the people who are tanging this, and these are the O.P.G.'s first of all. But what's most important is that two words have never come out of your mouth today, which is garter and cadastre. To get this job done in the first place, no matter what he's like, until the situation in the garter and the catastrus is settled, you just can't do it, you can say whatever you want. Another thing, to say that something more transparent than 15 people sees, and what has seen 1500 or 1600 people at public hearings in city councils that is not transparent is at least malignible. But it's your right. And Mr. Minister, I'm not in favour of people calling each other, and you've taken the right to say very ugly things about your colleague, Cobankovic. Very ugly, I don't know what you need, even though, for example, today from the HDZ bench, no one has gone personally with either of you, even though we may have a cause and we could, but we just didn't want to discuss the law. But people who have no argument then hit very low. And I am sorry that today, colleague Cobankovic was not here to answer what you did very lowly. However, this remark of yours speaks more of you, speaks more of your government and speaks more of your Prime Minister than it really does.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34903	And in this last line, we will hear the answer of the Minister of Jacob.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wouldn't be able to characterise today's debate on the right side of the assembly as something that was at a very high level and where there wasn't a very sharp, sports dictionary wording called "sharp game." Look, is it nice to steal your own country? It's not. Is that what I need to keep quiet about when you're attacking me with multiple items that we're doing wrong, that we're to blame for all of this, what's the result and the negative trends resulting from the last 10 years of bad agrarian leadership? It's not right. What am I supposed to say? Everything's fine, everything's been wonderful and wonderful until 15 months ago, and ever since Jakovina sat down to be Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture, everything's bad, nothing's good anymore. We produced and exported everything, we're self-sufficient in production. Our agricultural producers have no problems, are not over-indebted, are not without agricultural land, are not unprepared for EU entry. It's not like that, gentlemen! What's good, and the projects that are good, we continue them and as such we do them. I am sorry that my colleague, Sumrak, when she spoke about a good project that was done yesterday, where we set out for the visual identity of Croatian wines after entering the EU and where we presented the National Programme for Wine 2014-2018, she did not say that it was a project of the Ministry of Agriculture together with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, she left it out a little bit. Because it's something good, so Minister Jacob's is not to be mentioned in it. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34905	Please stop throwing. So can you people get that together?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34906	What's good is we keep going and we're working on it. What is bad goes into reform, whether you like it or not, this law will show how good and efficient and transparent it is through the results of the implementation of that law, not in unargumented criticism before we even brought it in before we were able to apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34907	Dear Representative Shuker, on 13 March, you pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure No, you need to do it within 24 hours. [[I'm still here.]] This is in accordance with Articles 211, 209 and with Article 216(1) of our Rules of Procedure. ... And the failure was one, a failure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So at this session you can no longer point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure Please. [[Thank you very much.]] That concludes the debate on this agenda item. I thank Minister Jakovini and his associates. We will vote on this bill when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34908	Final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 251. The debate on the text of the law is over. First, we will vote on a proposal from the HDZ Club to conduct a third reading on the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. I'm asking you first to make a statement about this proposal. Who is it for the final proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land to be held on 3rd reading? Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find that no proposal has been accepted for the conclusion of the HDZ representative club. Most of the votes 83 against and 38 for. Amendments to the final bill submitted, we have a special table, please give it to the Minister of Agriculture of Honored Tihomir Jakovina to go in order. Amendment number one. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34909	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that agricultural land in the natural agricultural sector, regardless of the spatial planning documentation. If they are in the catastrus as a agricultural culture it is primarily agricultural land and it is too high to indicate whether it is within or outside the construction area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34910	I'd like a representative of the club, a respected representative of Anna Lovrin, to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34911	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, we're sorry that you didn't take advantage of the opportunity to pass a new law to resolve the legal doubt of a definition that exists under the Law on Agricultural Land and under the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, where the same particles are, in fact, defined simultaneously as building and agricultural, that this is not the case with Article 14 of your proposed law which introduces the definition of unbuilt building land which, by its useful property, agricultural land and that is. so mainly on the different modes of transport of agricultural and construction land and that the owner of agricultural land cannot be a foreigner. It is necessary to define this clearly in order to implement the land books. We regret that it is missed to do so on this occasion and that it is missed to define the exact moment of re-purpose because, in our understanding, the re-purpose is happening at the moment of spatial planning, the dissemination of spatial planning documentation, and the very act of re-appropriation takes place at the time of construction of an object on such land. It was good to correct this legal doubt, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34912	Thank you very much. Please, who's in favour of an amendment to the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government doesn't accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment number 2 of Croatian Labour Clubs, Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, please ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34913	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. Issuance of land suitable for agricultural production from forest economic plans will be carried out in accordance with specific regulations on forests and with the agreement of the Ministry of Forestry Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34914	I would like the representative of the proposing, the respected representative of Branko Vuksic, to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34915	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. The Croatian Labour Club – The Labour Party believes that, at a time when we have so much abandoned, unprocessed agricultural land, we separate forest land and turn it into agricultural land, that it will be a nucleus, i.e. the focus of new manipulations. Why reduce forest wealth? We have not heard a valid reason, and therefore I ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34916	Thank you very much. Who's for Amendment number two. A Croatian Labour Representative's Club that the government doesn't accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3 of Honored Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34917	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The release of living GMOs into the environment is already fully regulated by the Law on genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34918	I'd like to make a statement to the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34919	It's always good that another law says that once again, it's about GMOs, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34920	Please, who's in favor of the amendment of the respected representative Branko Hrg, whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 4. A HDSSB representative club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34921	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. As the proposal changes the ratio of the allocation of funds between units of local and regional, not self-government, units of local self-government and the need to use those funds by units of local self-government are higher as well as in view of actual obligations and costs. And in connection with law enforcement, it is not accepted. There is always the possibility that units of local self-government or regional self-government units will enter into a co-operation agreement on activities relating to the joint spending of funds, i.e. the implementation of joint projects and programmes, and no further allocation of funds for regional regional self-government units is required by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34922	Thank you very much. Appreciation on behalf of the Proposer Club Honored Representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34923	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, according to the draft final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, we can negatively estimate that the funds are made from compensation for changing the purpose of the state budget's revenues to 70%, or 30% of the amount of the unit of local self-government and the City of Zagreb, thus placing them in a subordinate position compared to the Republic of Croatia, which, for the sake of lack of funds, will not be able to achieve economic, or programmes intended for the development of agriculture. This calls for a vote on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34924	Thank you very much. Please state who is for Amendment number four. A HDSSB representative club that the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment number 5 of the Honored Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34925	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. It has been suggested excessively because adding prefix to its own agricultural economy is unnecessary because it also implies a family agricultural economy and crafts something that is own.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34926	Thank you very much. Please give an indication of the honourable representative of the amendment to Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34927	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I think it's a family business and it's good to have it in the law, especially if it does no harm to anyone and as far as this other piece of work related to local self-government is concerned, the European Charter of Local Self-Government Article 4, paragraph 6, says, "The local unit will, if it is possible in a timely manner, ask for an opinion in the process of preparing and making decisions that directly concern them." I think this concerns the local self-government unit directly and that they should definitely be involved in the process. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34928	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on Amendment number five of the respected representative, Branko Hrg, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 6 of the HDZ Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. Please show your respects to the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34929	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. In the event of justification for the request of the unit of local or regional self-government for the exemption of the payment of compensation, it may be carried out in accordance with the paragraph of the two articles in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34930	Thank you very much. The exhibit on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34931	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, we regret that the law requires that he will automatically be free of compensation when the founder or investor of the Republic of Croatia is building for public purposes and that you do not also adhere to the units of local and regional self-government, and that is another way to do so through a series of laws that you give a lot of jobs and few resources to units of local self-government, but in addition to this content part, we intervened with the amendment and nomothechical because this existing manipulation is bad and stylish and nomote technical because it cannot be the founder of a building of someone who is therefore falling out of your philosophy to build buildings for scientific activities and health, so no matter who he is and the private investor will be released and only social care institutions whose founder is the Republic. By reading this clearly, you may not have meant it that way, I believe you didn't mean it that way, but it's written that way and you won't be able to regulate the implementation policies, but you need to clearly streamline the legal article. Therefore, the founder cannot be the founder of the building but can be the founder of the facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34932	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 6 of the HDZ Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 7 of the HDSB's Representative Club in the Croatian Parliament. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34933	Thank you, Mr. President. The explanation is almost identical for Amendment 6 as well. In the event of justification for the request of the unit of local and regional self-government, the exemption of the payment of compensation may be carried out in accordance with paragraph 2 of the article in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34934	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Igor Češek, but we have already decided on this by the respected ministers. We've already voted on the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34935	Thank you. We at the HDSSB Club negatively estimate that the fee is paid in the construction of buildings for scientific activities and health care and social care institutions whose founder is not the Republic of Croatia, i.e. that the said fee will be paid by municipalities, cities, counties when they build those facilities, which previously puts them in a subordinate position to the Republic of Croatia, with the emphasis that such a provision was not in the draft law. We therefore propose this amendment not to pay compensation for the re-use of agricultural land in the case of the previously mentioned buildings if they are the founders of the local and regional self-government or the Republic of Croatia and to request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34936	We have already agreed on Amendment 6 of the HDZ Representatives Club, which is the same content and should not be voted on. I would like you to take notice of the Honorable Minister for Amendment number 8 of Honored Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34937	Thank you, dear President. The amendment is not accepted except that the same provision existed in the applicable law. This is also not accepted in order to create a precondition for the launch of investment in tourism and a positive impact on the increase in tourism infrastructure. The construction of the golf course is about very small areas of the total available area we are talking about around 3 spills of the area of agricultural land and the real effects on the basis of smaller revenues from fees on this basis would be negligible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34938	I would like to ask that the applicant, the respected representative Josip Djakic, be made known.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34939	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister. I don't agree with your answer. So the construction of a golf course in a narrow sense belongs to the construction of sports courts and facilities, which, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2 of this final proposal of the law which explicitly defines the construction of sports courts and facilities as a change in the purpose of agricultural land, for which compensation must be paid in accordance with paragraph 1 of the same article. A fee for golf course like we know 19 holes with at least 100 acres. For a hundred acres of agricultural land reuse, you release those who have the most, who can pay the most. You favor a certain group of people who will get rich in such a way as this legal bargain. While the same other group that deals with the exploitation of sand, gravel, stone, ciglar and sheep's clay, surface spears and waste management, you charge them the full price of re-use of land, the team that earns their money the maximum price and the ones that will build the infrastructure, which will build the villas. Just remember the shouts about the law as much as it was when the HDZ government talked about it. I'm looking for this amendment to vote because this is a purely legal bargain for the richest at the expense of the poorest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34940	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on amendment number 8 of the respected representative Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment 9 of the same respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34941	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is also not accepted. The form of the economic programme of that value from... each component will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a sublegal act which allows for the modification of the evaluation of individual components depending on the priorities of individual agricultural productions in order to avoid frequent novelty of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34942	Thank you very much. An indication of the applicant for a respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34943	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. The form and manner of evaluation of the economic programme in terms of determining the value and weight of a particular component should be an integral part of this law in order to be transparent. This is how you left yourself the possibility for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring its sublaws an evaluation of this economic programme to the benefit of those who have the most. Tell us today, how will you value the one who has 100 tractors in his company, who has 100 employees or 1,000 employees, how will you assess that value in this evaluation, and then we'll know who you're guessing at. We will open our eyes to all agricultural producers who will no longer be able to participate in the competition. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34944	Thank you very much. I would like to make a nice statement about the amendment to the 9th Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We are moving on to Amendment number 10 of Honored Representative Josip Djakic, I am also asking the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34945	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is also not accepted. The economic programme is the highest points, or 60 points, and not less, because it contains components based on which it can be valued, which is the most favourable, not only the possibilities but also the obligations and responsibilities we leave on both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34946	Thank you very much. An indication of the applicant for a respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34947	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, by refusing the amendment, you clearly show who you work for, you clearly raise those who have and can do the most, which can offer the best economic programme, which can pay the most, who have the most machinery and who have the most employees. If in any case you had accepted this amendment and put 20 points for the economic programme, and for the so far user with 60 points, you would have protected those who are now processing countries that live on earth, who are employed and self-employed by their families. You clearly show this refusal of amendments that this distribution of points 20 in favour of the economic programme, and 60 for the benefit of the previous owners that the country has applied, has brought about a purpose, which it has produced and continues to design its future and you want to destroy it with this. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34948	Thank you very much. I would like to make a nice statement on amendment number 10 of the respected representative Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We move to Amendment number 11 of the HDSSB Representatives Club, please, Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34949	Thank you, Mr. President. The almost identical request is similar to the answer for non-acceptance. The economic programme is the highest points, or 60 points, and not less, because it contains components based on which it can be valued, which is the most favourable, i.e. in some way to encourage active farmers and farmers to increase production.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34950	There's a little difference. I would like to ask the representative of the honourable representative, Igor Češek, to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34951	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, according to the draft final proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land of the OPG, we find ourselves in an unequal position because we believe that it will not be able to achieve the same number of points on the basis of an economic programme as large companies that will certainly better meet the economic programme and thus achieve a greater number of points. We therefore propose this amendment so that the tender can be conducted more justly. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34952	I would like to make a nice statement on Amendment 11 of the HDSSB Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We move to Amendment 12 of the SDSS Representative Club, please, Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34953	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed order of the championship shall be determined by the persons who are applicants of the derogation from the criteria for determining the right of the championship according to the sum of points of the total possible for all call participants. The proposed amendment speaks of the form of registration of applicants but not of its size, production, volume and significance for agricultural production. Some OPGs are greatly exceeded by individual companies by the size and value of production. In accordance with all other provisions of the law, the interests of the CAP and agricultural cooperatives will be further respected through sub-legislative acts and evaluation of the economic programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34954	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34955	I thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS has said its position on this concept in previous discussions on the new concept of agricultural land, but we have pointed out in particular, and it is very important for us that the OPGs have priority in the contracts for the lease of agricultural land. We believe that this would ensure the further development of small agricultural economies or create a basis for sustainable management and staying particularly in areas of special state concern. That is enough reason for us to strengthen that fact in the law. This can, of course, be done by sublaws, and this law shows that many of these things will be regulated by sublaws, which is not a very common practice, but we think it is more important that such a large thing be regulated by basic law. That is why we have also submitted an amendment to the article of the 30th Law, where we have proposed that the advantage of family farms be resolved without regard to the size or number of tractors or their financial capacity. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34956	I would like to make a nice statement on Amendment 12 of the SDSS Representative Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We move on to Amendment 13 of Honored Representative Branko Bačić. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34957	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. There is no exception to the envisaged criteria for establishing the right of the championship to call for the lease of agricultural land, although in this case the present, as otherwise prescribed by the law, the previous owner is already worth 20 points on the basis of a valid tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34958	Please be shown by the motionary, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34959	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, I am sorry that you did not understand the reasons for the submission of my amendment that I proposed on behalf of over 650 family farms from the Neretva Valley included in the Mandarin producer's association in the Neretva Valley. Therefore, these holdings were based on the law of the procedure, based on a tendering area for the raising of long-term plantations, orchards, mandarins in the Neretva Valley and under the law, clearly with the consent of the State's attorneys today raised long-standing plantations of Mandarins. What they are looking for is that the government recognises that they cannot isolate their investment within that scheduled time period and are willing to accept this solution, and that the fact that they have invested large funds there is worth it, that they have not exhausted them and are willing to accept the highest price offered in our competition and that they are then entitled to the championship. You just didn't accept it, I don't know, it's not clear to me, I really can't understand that you're taking responsibility for the disputes that will take place after you write the competition, for any riots and conflicts that may occur because the persons who have received this lease under the law, which are generally developed defenders in the Neretva Valley who have thus resolved their existential question and are willing to accept that tender and accept the highest offered price of the rent. And under such conditions, the government is unable to allow them to have the right to the championship. Almost incomprehensible. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34960	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 13 of the respected representative Branko Bačić, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment number 14 of Honored Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34961	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted, and so is Amendment 9 and 10, and that is the argument. The economic programme is raised with the highest points, i.e. 60 points, not less, because it contains components based on which it can be valued by the bidder in the lease tender most favourable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34962	Please show the esteemed Proposer Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34963	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, if we could hold out a little longer, we'd be fine. We are passing a law that is very important for many people in Croatia who will end their production in the end by passing it. Well, you've just voted Mr. President, you've raised your hand with your heart, and that's good. I will say here that it is evident here that another direction is taken, that it is going towards another model of agriculture and that it is going to destroy the ordinary Croatian peasant. And it is evident that all these amendments will not pass, we didn't expect them to, but I therefore for the sake of the dying peasants and the dying of the Croatian village in this time of Easter in the name of all of them I wish happy holidays because they will not be resurrected so let them be happy Easter to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34964	Are you asking for a vote? I would like to make a statement on Amendment number 14 of the respected representative, Branko Hrg, whom the government does not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment number 15 of the HDSSB Representatives Club. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34965	Thank you, dear President. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed change in the allocation ratio of funds between units of the regional self-government and units of local self-government, and the need for the use of those funds by the local self-government unit is higher in view of the actual obligations and costs related to the implementation of the law and is not proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34966	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34967	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, at the beginning, you could say that you did not accept any amendment to the opposition. It is expected that they will not accept them, but it might be smarter for the government and for the Ministry of Agriculture to listen to smart amendments to our agricultural producers would probably be better in the future. With such a bill, they will surely be in an unspeakable position. As for this amendment itself, almost all continental counties, and especially Slavonian counties, their economic development is based on the development of agriculture. In order to achieve their economic growth, the county actively participates through projects related to productivity improvement... through their more efficient use, through the editing of the channel network, irrigation, geodetic-catastrian measurement and other development projects in agriculture. With such a reduction of funds and these projects already under way, they will be compromised, not to mention the continuation of new projects. We therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34968	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 15 of the HDSB Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving on to amendment number 16 of Honored Representative Josip Djakic. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34969	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. By law, the proposed allocation of funds provides an excuse for the Republic of Croatia as owner to receive adequate funds from the real estate in its possession.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34970	I would like to make an indication of the respected representative, Josip Djakic, as the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34971	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it is evident that these counties, which are mostly headed by HDZ or the HSS, are wanted to be deprived of their funds. You want to take away those funds for programmes, funds for programmes that were for the development of livestock, the promotion of cattle production, the development of technical documentation for mini-milks, sirens, subsidisation of high-value equipment and the cultivation of high-value breeding throats, the promotion of honey production, the development of plant production programme, co-financing of the cost of buying industrial vegetables, the promotion of plastic production, the promotion of fruit production, the promotion of fruit production and wine growing, the promotion of the production of strawberries, the certification of resourceful peppers, the co-financing of the procurement of nets for the defence of tobacco, the promotion of fruit production, the promotion of fruit production, the promotion of tobacco production, the rural development programme, the co-financing of cadastarians, which is very important and which is necessary, co-financing of exhibitions, fairs, competition, the promotion of hazardous waste in agriculture, the development of agriculture, the development of agriculture, the development of agriculture, the development of agriculture, the development of agriculture, the development of agriculture, the development of agriculture, the development of agriculture. You've taken all of this away from the county that won't be with 10% more than you've taken the state to make as much money as you can to finance those who'll be employed by the agency that's going to work on it. I'm looking for this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34972	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 16th Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment 17 of the same respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34973	I thank Mr. President, the amendment is not accepted. The requested opinion of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia on sales contracts is prescribed by the State's Attorney's Office Act and no further regulation is required under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34974	Please show the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34975	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. With this act of rejecting this amendment where the consent of the State Attorney's Office to all contracts as it has been so far, consent to all contracts selected by the Agency will clearly state which way you want to go. You don't need the State's Attorney's office anymore. So far, you've potentiated it, sent it, directed it, and asked it to be a signator of consent on the selection of the most favourable people by the programs that were scheduled. Now you no longer need what it says clearly which way you want to go. You want to go through guessing the richest and most powerful. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34976	Yes, thank you very much. Please state the amendment number of the 17th Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment 18. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Croatian Parliament. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34977	Thank you, dear President. The amendment is not accepted. The Agency for Agricultural Land can make use of state agricultural land without a public call only to the institutions and institutions whose founder is the Republic of Croatia, and the expansion of the user circle in a proposed way this legal institute loses the meaning that was intended to achieve this provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34978	On behalf of the promoter of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34979	... My fellow Czechs, however, naively believed that you would accept at least some amendments that do not fall into essence into the concept of your law, but make it better and make it socially sensitive. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] With this amendment, we are looking for the same thing as we asked for the amendment to the sixth, so when they are eligible, direct allocations to the use of agricultural land without a public tender, equalise the Republic of Croatia and the units of local and regional self-government for the same reasons as they manage public money for public purposes and we have also extended it to associations that are engaged in socially beneficial work, rehabilitation and rehabilitation, and they are socially useful. First of all, we think of associations dealing with treatment of addiction, association for therapeutic riding, association for the resociation of people who have finished, served the sentence, for example, by associations that care for children without parental care. If, in their activity, they had the need to use agricultural land and we are therefore sorry that you did not recognise that the units of local self-government are doing what they do for public purposes for the benefit and well-being of all citizens and that you did not recognise this social component where we proposed to extend this right and for these associations that are used, which perform socially beneficial work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34980	Are you asking for a vote? I'd like to make a statement on Amendment 18. A party of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, which the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. That's how we exhausted the list of amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 78 votes in favour and 36 votes against the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act, are in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34981	And now we continue with the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 317 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You put the motion for an act in the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. We see the Minister of Administration Arsen Baruk wants to further explain the proposal, so we give him our word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This bill proposes to single out one administration from the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds and to obtain the status of the State Office for Housing Care, i.e. on the basis of the amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which I will propose to the Government to accept, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing. In view of the scope and importance of matters relating to the care and assistance of exiles, refugees and returnees, as well as the restoration of housing units destroyed by wartime activities which have the fact that the management of administrative housing procedures and the establishment of status rights covered by the implementation of the monitoring process in the process of the entry of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 23 and the fact that the implementation of the regional housing programme for the five-year period managed by the Council of Europe Development Bank will begin in 2013. This draft law proposes to establish legal assumptions for making those transactions more effective. Not to mention, as Mr. Boric would say, "More squares is more transparent."that is how and then in this part, I believe that the establishment of a new office will improve the situation of housing care and reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34983	I thank the minister. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDSSB club will be spoken of by the respected Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34984	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Here's a few of us MPs left on these agenda points, but here's what I'm not gonna do. Since the minister was also brief in his reasoning, one question was the minister's commentary and information that we received at the club said that within the framework of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, one year and a few days nothing had been done about this issue of returnees, refugees and their problems in terms of housing, reconstruction. One case from Osijek-Baranja County says 500 requests have been submitted to help those building materials that have persons living in areas of special state concern, that no case has been resolved either positively or negatively, and said from the Association of Exiles and Returnees of the Republic of Croatia that for 15 years they have struggled to transfer this issue from several ministries to the ministry today of regional development and EU funds. So now the question arises whether the formation of this new State Office for Reconstruction and Housing which will take over from the ministry is really going to do something about it, or whether it's just going to be a transfer and opening of some new state offices to solve some problems or not. Well, here we are not against the formation of a new state office, against the transfer of funds from the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Fund, so they are foreseen by the budget, but the fundamental question is that nothing has been done at all, which will be obtained by this new state office, whether there will be new employment or not? Here, in light of this law, it is said that it will not, that employees will be taken over from, who have worked on these jobs at the ministry. And another question, what will happen to the 14 offices of the regionals that are set up in the counties that are, the counties that are at war in the affected areas? So there are some key issues that are being raised by this issue. So we're not against it, if it's going to be effective and effective and if it's really going to solve the problems of exiles, returnees and refugees, but we are, so we have some questions. And the UNHCR reportedly disagrees with this proposal to set up a new state office as it has recently stopped in more than a year and a half to solve the problem. That is why this area has come under the issue of monitoring Chapter 23 for Croatia's upcoming EU. So here's if you talk about answering these short questions, if it's going to be effective and if it helps we don't mind establishing a new state office if it's going to have purpose and reason to set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34985	Thank you. A colleague, Josip Boric, expressed his desire to replicate you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34986	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Salapic you asked yourself in your brief discussion of whether something would work out here. Well, I think it's a very bad solution, because the fact is that today, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is the most relevant and well-mannered ministry regarding the construction of anything when we talk about social and some kind of municipal infrastructure. No one, no state office can do better. There are building engineers, there are architects, there are people of knowledge, I don't see what's going to happen to that state office, although I often point out in my discussions that this ministry is not well and sufficiently teamed up especially on the management staff and I often say that there should be another assistant minister there. We know that for this problem there is an assistant minister who's in charge of it, why he doesn't do well enough, that we should ask him, maybe it's funny that the Ministry of Administration, I say proposes this law and we don't really know what's really going on there, and we don't know what's going on. You said yourself there were objections to the side, if I heard the UNHCR correctly? I think simply the state office won't be at that level, the state offices are more or less in all the parts the government has, let's say administration or bureaucracy and solve quite different problems. To get into this problem of taking care of exiles, I say in this way to me is one step back in taking care of the refugees and the exiles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34987	We're continuing the club debate. I call upon the esteemed Mila Horvat to state the views of the SDSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34988	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, with my associates. The law itself is very simple which we are now talking about, has six members, and it should be an operational law, that is, the basis for creating what we will call in the future a new state body, that is, a new state office for housing reconstruction and housing care. So I would not speak of him as a text, but as you said to the Vice President today during the day before, I would discuss the context to which this law should be passed. Of course, for the overall context of this response, it is necessary to give the competent ministry of course that if we had the opportunity to open the debate precisely on what stage the return programme is a total, complex thing, reconstruction, housing care, electrification, etc. then we have a chance to talk only when it comes to state budgets and when certain funds are to be determined, position for this thing that is being done continuously for the next year. It would be interesting to analyse the results of these things, or these operations, and to compete at some age. This whole thing came in some way this year, or 2012. In a certain stalemate, we expect that such a new reconstruction will be done by the state office for reconstruction and housing, which would take over certain tasks of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds as it is officially called. So these jobs, very unpopular jobs and important jobs will end. So the motive for supporting such a new structure is simply a quick and efficient completion of the jobs that we should have done. In the end, we also promised this in the phase of EU accession when we talked about Chapter 23 of the judiciary and human rights. We set ourselves some deadlines, and those deadlines should be respected. I'm going to say right away that we've made an amendment to a formal nature because we think this entire office should be called, that the full name should be the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, because then, in some ways, the character of the new office's affairs will be defined. We expect this bill to bring about a new state office for renovation and housing, that the state office will carry out housing operations, rebuilding in one body, so that all jobs will be united in one body and that it will coordinate the conduct of operations in the whole country. Also, the office is expected to find a solution to the closure of remaining issues and problems of refugees, exiles, returnees, and these issues are to recall covered by the monitoring process in the EU accession process, as I have already said most of the time, are Chapter 23. This office should also work on the realisation of a five-year regional housing programme whose implementation should begin in 2013 and the total value of this project should be EUR 583 million by 2017. The project would be managed by the Development Bank, the Council of Europe and implemented between four partner countries, namely Croatia, Serbia, the BIH and Montenegro. These are some general reasons why we support the adoption of this law. I'm going to say a few specifics about this whole problem. I'm afraid the public doesn't know, doesn't follow, doesn't deal with this problem, very subtle problem, so it's good to know what the state has done in that field so far. Household care should have been one of the return holders to areas of special state concern. There's a lot of problems here. They burden, these problems burden significant delays in resolving requests are complicated procedures, outstanding issues of returnees' status have been resolved and the purchase of apartments has hardly even begun. So we have in the recovery category temporarily occupied private property. It may be important here to say that out of 19 thousand 280 occupied houses, or private elements of private property were returned to the owners of 19 thousand 271 for all 9 cases are in court proceedings. What is subject to monitoring by an EU body is the subject of unauthorized investment by temporary users in busy assets. We only have 15 more items here. I hope that this thing will be solved too because most of these things will be solved over the past period. I can say that, it's settled for the mandate of the previous government. The rebuilding of the house is the category where we have restored about 149 thousand houses and in the process of rebuilding this thing in which counterpart Salapic was saying, so 591 housing is in resolution and that is the thing that was not solved last 2012. Years. And we're talking about the numbers that were solved by that period. Household care since the start of the implementation of the housing programme in 2001 and to this day in the Republic of Croatia, housing requirements in areas of special state care have been filed by about 69,000 families. The right to housing has been established in 36, practically 37,000 cases. So these are huge jobs, these were needed whole, considerable resources, or always significant budget funds over these last tens or slightly more years, to make these things happen. There's still somewhere else around what's important, there's about 19,000 requests left, and these unresolved demands are entering this new office's business as something that needs to be done. The housing of former tenant rights holders in the area of special state care of some 69,000 requests in the field of special state care, 10 000 of them, relate to the requirement for housing of former tenant rights holders, of which an administrative solution has been made to some 9,000 so far. A thousand 200 are entering an unsettled commitment to the work of this office that he needs to do. Outside the area of special state care, we still have about 2,000 requests that are also committed to the work of this office. It is particularly important here to say that a large part of the Serb national returnees applied for the purchase of an apartment somewhere around 1284 had completed their documentation. So far, only two apartments of 1280 have been purchased according to our data. The question is, why is that? The fact is that applicants of an elderly person’s application, that the right to purchase an apartment is a personal right that is not inherited in this case and delaying the solution to this issue raises questions and the meaning of their right as well as government decisions made. Many citizens will probably not consume it for their lives, and in that case these apartments then go back to state property. So these are some things that have so far been inconsistencies and are expected to solve activities through this office with a more consistent policy. We expect that also in that office, housing databases are transferred to the authority of that office, and then data would be in one place, a simplified procedure for users would be simplified. For former tenants, it must be resolved in a unique manner. The fact is that it is not equal treatment in areas of special state concern and outside the field of special state care, so that housing is not arranged in the same way. For example, the decision-making process on a housing complaint outside the PPDS is not an administrative procedure nor can legal medicines be put in place, unlike housing procedures in the field of special public care, which is the administrative procedure and where applicants of applications for housing can invest legal medicines. So that's something that's in one regulated legal system that's inadmissible and the thing that needs to be arranged. Thus, the principle of equality of citizens before the law requires that the legal regime be governed and equal for all. It is also a recommendation from the Ombudsman on the need for uniform treatment and to address such a problem by former tenants. I could talk here about some other data, I don't think it's that important data, but the fact that a lot of work has been done is also the fact that in this problem business isn't done. And if we think that with one of these concepts as proposed, we do not doubt that this matter will not be finished and that we will, within some time, be acceptable to both us and the EU Commission, end this matter within the framework of this office. And we are prepared to accept and support one of these concepts of a new state body.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34989	I thank my colleagues Horvato. And I call upon my esteemed colleague Davorin Mlakar to take the stand of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34990	Good evening, Vice President. Mr. Minister and Associates, honoring fellow third shifts or should I call you so I can arrange for you all the darklings you've stayed. Here's the right time for eight hours, and already all the major news is over, so we can talk about irrelevant topics. So I'm going to make a personal observation, even though I'm speaking for the club, it's a typical example of what it's supposed to be. An accident for a minister of administration who is neither guilty nor obliged to defend such a law before Parliament even though he is neither interested nor trusted in its solutions, but was imposed on him in such a manner by the regulations. Although it is strange that where the regulations spoke in favour of the Ministry of Administration being the legislator, they were some other ministries. And on the other hand, those whose law concerns the structure of the state administration, they are not here and they are not proposing the law, and it is the ministry whose work after a year and 2, 3 months we are changing because I will dare say, apparently the Vice-President of the Government does not want to deal with these tasks that have been in the works so far under the Act on the Part-Corruption of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds. Then we read what came in the equipment of the law, and as much as it may irritate you, but there's less of you in the hall, so I guess the reaction will be weaker. Once again, we have a law that should go according to emergency procedures. The reasons for the adoption of the law are set out in Article 150. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that because the management of housing procedures and the establishment of status rights is covered by the implementation of the monitoring process in the process of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union for Chapter 23. -Justice and fundamental rights, and since the implementation of the regional housing programme is foreseen for the five-year period of 2013-2017 managed by the Council Development Bank, it is estimated that the creation of legal assumptions for the effective implementation of these operations is justified by an attractive reason for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. And I wouldn't even be surprised at this if we were trying for the first time to edit an institution that should be doing these jobs. But as we can see from the bill, as we know from what the Government has proposed so far, these jobs and so far have been done and done at the Ministry's level as the central authority of the state administration, which is at its disposal and if you want importance above the rank or importance of the state office that should be doing in the future. We see formally-legislatively how the Proposer even tried to solve the way and part-time work, except, of course, he prescribed part-time work from the current ministry in one part of his jurisdiction, now to the future state housing office. And now this state office, at no further cost, which I must say, I sincerely doubt, should be dealing with a part of the ministry's affairs so far. However, it should address, among other things, the renewal requirements, housing requirements and requirements for the establishment of refugee status rights, exiles and returnees, the organisation of the care of refugees, exiles and returnees, etc., etc. That, too, was said by counterpart Horvat, this does not show that the office would handle complaints that can be made in a first-degree procedure conducted at the county level. And it's good that, however, the question is whether the state administration's state administration system can handle the requirements in the second degree because these rights are reserved to the departments, so it's less logical that you now transfer the state administration's business in the second degree from a ministry that can and should be done in view of first-degree bodies, you transfer it to a state office that can't do so under the State Administration System Act. I will also remind you that the other state offices, the State Office for Trade Policy, the State Office for Central Public Procurement, the State Office for State Property Management and the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia who do not have their first-degree bodies, and then it is logical that they do not even solve in the second degree because they are the first-degree bodies. So the concept of the law is quite messy, the concept of the law is actually a request from the Ministry of Regional Development that part of the business that burdened him or did not interest his leaders now, forgive the expression, engulf someone else, or establish a state office that should do so in the future. My first question to the Proposer, did you, when considering this reorganisation of the central authorities of the state administration, suggest or consult with those for whom these bodies exist, or for whom these bodies have a defined part of the circle. Have you asked the Croatian returnee community what they think about the idea of the ministry's affairs being transferred to the state office? You probably didn't because we talked to them, so they were able to tell us that they got mad when they heard about the fact that now the jobs that were in the ministry, which not only get symbolic but get real meaning, are being transferred to other bodies. In fact, they said '97. The year of resolving their issues has been fragmented by several central authorities of the state administration, and this is exactly why they found the most painful problems and the biggest reason why their demands have been resolved long and unqualityly and welcomed the fact that these problems are finally solved at the ministry level and in one place. Now you've given up on that solution that proved to be a good one again. One more thing is that this government has a further proposal, that it will not only stop with this law but also work on the Law on the Status of Persecutors and Refugees, that it will work on the new Law on Areas of Specific State Care, on the Law on Reconstruction, and this is the beginning of that chain, but it is not convenient for all four laws to subsidise parliament at the same time because then the ultimate intention will be seen, which is that the PPDS will lose that attention and the importance they have so far given to central state institutions. And that's the biggest objection why this law shouldn't be proposed at all. It is the opinion of those who are users of the ministry's services that so far this is the best way to address their demands in one place. And one large part of them said that the colleagues of these demands were also resolved, and now you're going so far as to predict, and also told counterpart Salapic that 500 requests remained unresolved last year, you know about the special measure of trying to help young families resolve the housing issue. Out of the 500 requirements in Osijek-Baranja County, none has been resolved. Now there's an even more brilliant solution. Yesterday, one of our colleagues was saying that 20 Supermans would not be able to solve all the accumulated problems of our country for 10 years, so in these pictures, I'm the only one who is imposing myself on this Superhick law or maybe some Batman who came up with these solutions at night, because he came up with this construction material for future housing issues of younger families to be awarded by an agency called AUDIO. No one has yet been able to understand how AUDIO, apart from traffic and real estate management, will deal with the transport of bricks, concrete, cement, and other things that people need to deal with the housing issue. This law is to cut short, and that is the opinion of all of us who managed to read it in the club except that it is short he is unnecessary, he is the expression in fact wanted by the Deputy Prime Minister that he would not want to do some work that he found in the section of his ministry. And that is why I said probably not even the minister of the administration today would like to propose this law, but unfortunately it has to, because it is a legal obligation for him, so it would be much smarter to recommend to Vice President Greece that he performs his duties and team his ministry to respond to the demands of the work of his ministry's work, but simply to amend the law on the formation of ministries all that does not seem particularly attractive to him, particularly to be of particular interest to any media, was professional, to simply establish a new central body. And in the end, I would say that this law is just an addition to what we talked about yesterday in a completely different context. This is another addition to what the government has promised us – the rationalization of the state administration, as we have heard that rationalization is when you reach 20 with 16 ministries, it is certain that the rationalization of a massive state apparatus with which everyone is dissatisfied and that instead of the ministry, we still have a new state office. We were also talking about the establishment of those energy central bodies. We will have a state office for which it will be necessary to re-find funds, find people, find accommodation, design his jobs, and probably just somewhere in 2017, which is listed here as the year in which these jobs should be completed, perhaps it will be the year in which these jobs will begin. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support this law. However, it will suggest again that at least if you do not want to accept all the arguments we have made against this law that we think are very serious and that you need to think them through, then at least offer this law in the first reading. Because it's an insult of common sense 15 or 30 times to invent some trivial reasons for the urgency of a procedure that doesn't exist. These jobs are still being done in the ministry today. And nothing will happen to the state's reasons, if these jobs don't start tomorrow, but let's say three months from now when you force the parliamentary majority to pass the law to start running in the state office. And what it says in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Emergency Procedure, and I risk it because I know what the vice president will answer these rules, we have heard them many times, no matter what he is aware of, there is no reason for urgency. Your suggestion is again don't go through an emergency procedure. Give us two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34991	Thank you, too. Four members of the HDZ Club will now be replicating a representative of the HDZ club. First, it will be done by the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34992	Yeah, we've seen these replicas, learned from once a long time ago from representatives of the SDP club, so good practice is a shame to end. Yes, yes, sir. Don't have a short memory. You're one of the creators of that. Comrade Mlakar, you've elaborated all this nicely, but you haven't said any of the things to the end. Definitely the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister don't want to deal with housing. It is definitely that one of the very difficult problems in Croatia wants to get kicked out of the ministry which is the most financially potential, because the Ministry of Regional Development is certainly the ministry that has the most to say free resources. And now that I've made not one budget and then when it starts preparing for the budget, then when everyone sits around the common table, it's usually those who are the strongest, the most powerful elections for the best positions, you can think of the position of the head of the office in relation to the current position of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development. That's one thing. The second thing, go do this during the financial year is at least ridiculous. If this is done then when a budget is adopted and the budget is well planned, then in principle it is seen and what is the financial effect of this law because no one can tell me that one body that is singled out from one body that has organised services and legal, human and financial and construction, etc., where some people do more jobs when you single it out especially where these people will no longer do many jobs but will work one job will cost far more expensive. And these laws we're going to talk about a little later are talking about reducing the salaries of civil servants and deputies. So this is just proof that the government simply does not know what and how and how it is not prepared to take responsibility for a very endangered group of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34993	The line matches the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't have time to just say everything, but I think you missed out on maybe stressing this except that Mr. Vice President of the Government doesn't want to deal with the housing business. In fact, the government suggested this law that he didn't deal with it, that he didn't understand it, and that the ministry was doing it badly. The only thing we didn't hear was those words. But I'm going to refer you to page 2 of this law as long as it allows me, so setting up a state office like this that's probably precedentd in this broad European circle of the central authorities of the state administration is going to make something phenomenal, it's going to establish legal assumptions as effectively as possible. These people who are going to do these jobs will be dedicated only to these jobs, they will use more rationally state budget funds and state-owned assets. And now what I would suggest to anyone who proposes the law to at least delete, the necessary human and material capacities will be built to implement a housing programme based on structural funds. I'm sorry, because that ministry has failed to do any of these jobs in a year and a half, but then with such an assessment, the government should come, say that it has failed the ministry and the vice president of the government, maybe think about replacing it with someone else and not for that to set up a state office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34995	The second line will be presented by the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're telling your colleague, Mr. Bauk, that Mr. Bauk's secretary is neither guilty nor obliged to defend a law he's not interested in, nor is business in his work. But since the Ministry of Regional Development has a wide range of activities and the minister is an islander to Bracanin and in the part of the ministry's work there is also concern for the Croatian islands and about the development of the island I suggest that the minister then listen to this proposal and pass it on to the Deputy Prime Minister to restore the status of the Board of Islands within the ministry. In fact, care for islands and islands has otherwise drowned completely in the ministry to the indistinguishability. Not only in the financial section that the government does not care about islands but only in two days here is how much we follow from the press, and from the letters that I receive as a representative between the other and the island county, we hear that we are announcing a price increase on high-speed shipping lines up to 60% and just before the tourist season. On the other hand, I received a letter from the director of the public company Autoceste Rijeka-Zagreb Arz in which he asked me, Mr. Boris, asking me to intercede between the Vice-President of the Government of Greece and the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of Hajdaš-Dončić to pay them compensation to the Rijeka-Zagreb highways because the Law on Islands freed the citizens of Krk from the payment of the bridge. And that fee from the state budget needs to be paid by the State budget by Autoroadi Rijeka-Zagreb, but then the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Greek and Mr. Hajdash-Doncic cannot agree on who will have to pay for it, so they are asking for help and me as an opposition parliamentary representative. Well, I'm taking the opportunity for the minister to pass it on to them. And secondly, today I also received a letter from the Director of AUTOTRANS that the Ministry of Regional Development has not yet remembered to sign a contract with that concessionary, so that the islanders who are freed from ticket payments on the island will have to pay themselves from next week. Here, so I just wanted the minister to pass it on. He's probably more interested in that than this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34997	This debate within the club will continue with the response to Davorin Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34998	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As far as I can mediate between you islanders, I'll do my best. I just didn't say it wasn't Minister Bauk's job. I said unfortunately it was his job and he has to do it no matter how much he liked it. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Greek, and I don't like to talk about people he doesn't have, and especially then about their proposals, but maybe the media will not, of course, be interested in it, at least by oral surrender, pass this on to him. With everything you've been up to, I see actually another tendency, and that's what I'm reading from this law. Everything you've been saying, plus these announcements for the Department's department, it seems to me that we're going to become our entire territory of states of special national concern. But as the islands are likely to experience this national concern, it will also be experienced by the entire state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u34999	We're moving on with the replicas. It's time for the honorable Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35000	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Mlakar, in your debate, you have argued that this really does not lead to anything and that we are just going to get into even bigger problems and that is indeed a fact. We set up this law a new office that we join to current state offices, so the State Office for Trade Exchange, State Office for Statistics, and then for Public Procurement, then we have for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, etc. State offices, I'm talking about state offices. Now, we at the Ministry of the Regionals have the housing administration and the right to be governed by Mr. Stanko Janjic, I think for 10 years, if I'm not mistaken. They have more money than some ministries, 350 million kuna for two programs, for housing and reconstruction in the war of damaged objects. And now we're setting up a state office where we're going to, let's say, write a letter, transfer all that administration to the state office and leave the ministry in charge of still taking care of that physical part, means building, building, monitoring, etc. conduct public procurement procedures, etc. Well, I mean, instead of leaving it inside one house that's already doing it quite well and successfully in these ten years, we're now taking that administrative part of them, and now this state office is going to do it better than all those people inside that administration that we've had, that worked out perfectly normally. Now we're gonna call the phones, we're gonna send the papers from one side to the other, and of course it's gonna get executed. I mean, really, who thought of this solution, I don't know what to tell him, except to find out in the end that every day in every respect we're getting more and more backwards, here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35001	The last replica and Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35002	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Mlakar, well, it is strange, while one office is shut down and attached to the ministries, such as the Office for Finding, Marking, Keeping Victims' Cemeteries under the pretext of being so rationalized, so that it is operationalized, that it works better and more efficiently, that the EU funds are being used better, and that is all, this office is made up and made up to both consensus and you raised your hand when you were in the Council of Ministers for the Office, the Consensus of Left and Right and All Representatives, and this is the basis of the Law on Consensus with the Council of Europe Resolution. We've shut down and joined the Ministry of Defense, and now we're setting up a new one who's going to care and care and he's going to be rational, he's going to be efficient, he's going to be functional, and this guy who's been doing his job wasn't like that, and we shut him down and we've attached him to the Defense Department. I mean the strange explanations that come with this new office law and I don't think it has anything to do with reality and the use of neither funds, nor rationalization, or surgery, or anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35003	We'll also hear the answer to this replica, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35004	Dear fellow Djakic, you have not understood since the beginning of the work of this government what you are now surprised at, and that is the logic that is unclear to us because it seems to be contrary to the logical conclusions that we are used to. So this government said it was going into rationalization, so instead of 16 it founded 20 ministries, so instead of 84 the secretary of state came to 160 or how many officials and that's a reduction of state administration, rationalization. However, recently I can't tell you exactly which date Minister Mrsic was telling us that they saved on salaries, when your coefficient from 4.27 rises to 5.27 it's according to the logic of our government's savings. And I understand that, if the establishment of one ministry is the separation of the service and the creation of a new office that will need space, equipment, people who will take over part of the basis of this law, savings and the government has told us that, so we need to understand that logic and believe it. The second question is in Article 4 of the start of work of the State Office, which will take over according to the established section of equipment, writing, other documentation, means of work, financial resources, and the rights and obligations of relatively undertaken businesses, the big question is how much of what our colleagues have been saying or as one of the potential ministries has been said, how much will these funds really be transferred to the state office. I am afraid that it will be in line with the needs of those for whom this office is established, and it is clear to all of us that it is absolutely unnecessary, most unnecessary, that because of the will of one man, we are not unfortunately in the mandate of this government for the first time that, by reason of the will or interest of one man, we are once again passing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35005	Now we'll hear the closing word, Minister Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35006	Thank you. So as far as the debate is concerned, the issue of Representative Salapic, as some of his colleagues from the HDZ club have noticed, is therefore the context of the law not the text. At tomorrow's session, the Croatian Government has 3 draft laws to come to the Croatian Parliament, the Law on Areas of Special State Care, on Reconstruction and on the Status of Exorcists and Refugees, and it will be an opportunity to get answers to the question you asked from the Ministry's representatives who, in order to express themselves, would be more interested in this debate, since they have expressed some solidarity with me which I must propose the law because I have to, but it doesn't matter. As regards not the letters, but as regards questions on the grounds of jurisdiction, the state office is also the central authority of the state administration and pursuant to Article 44. The Law on the System of State Administration shall be settled in administrative matters and carried out by administrative or inspection supervision, etc., etc. So I think that there, and especially when it is defined by these other laws, there will be no problem. As regards the presentation or replica of MP Bačić to the islands, I, as a representative, spoke on behalf of the club every time about the implementation of the Island Law and always expressed myself commendably to the island's restoring ministry. However, I wanted more in the previous government that as many jobs as possible in the island as possible be transferred to that administration, not because Mr. Boris was particularly nice to me, but because I know that we islanders have some understanding and solidarity in the rest if you throw a little bit of attendance statistics in the hall, then you will see that out of the five representatives from the island in the hall is a total of 4 because Tonka has now come out to make a phone call, 5 is in the hospital probably but he is my replacement in the Assembly, so we can say that we are in a hundred percent of the remaining 146 deputies somewhere is 20%, so we are actually 7 times more present and active now. I therefore believe that this is still something to say about this island solidarity, so for now I would stand there believing that these problems that you have said will be solved I will also make my contribution that they will be solved in the framework within which they can be solved. I'm going to stop here, so I'm probably going to have a chance to say something in reply to the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35007	We've registered three replicas. First respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35008	Your Honor, I didn't mean to answer, but you, Mr. Minister, mentioned this report on the implementation of the Island Act. While we were taking care of Croatian islands every year, the Croatian Parliament discussed the report following the implementation of the island laws. We didn't discuss the 2011 report. One year, although we have discussed these reports in the past year and a half, this is a legal obligation imposed by the Assembly to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Article 38 to report once a year to the Parliament on the implementation of this law. I ask why we didn't discuss it when everything is very clear and the procedures are well known. And if we had discussed this, then today we would all be more pleased because we would have established some facts and warned the ministry not to do what it does and so did counterpart Bacic. The fact is that the islands reduce the frequency of travel, i.e. The number of lines is reduced, more expensive tickets are announced, we have the right to drive around the islands, means several groups among them students, students, pensioners free of charge across all islands and that they obviously do not want to sign some contracts as informed by those who have received this right in public competition and have a concession. And that we will all end up obviously in the problem before the tourist season, and that is why it would be good for you to pass it on to this House and to report on the implementation of the island law if we are not already in 2013, but also for 2012. It is current, to discuss these two years, even within one year and thus show that you respect what the Croatian Parliament tells you through the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35009	The minister does not consider it necessary to respond to this replica of counterpart Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, part of what I was about to say was replicated by my colleague, Boric. I'd just like to add one more thing. So within the ministry we're changing today, the ministry has taken over from the ministry of the former seas, transport, the infrastructure has taken over just for the islands. For unclear reasons, I was lifted by the status of that administration. Today, such a systematic concern that has previously been addressed about islands in the ministry is not being guided. I'm sorry, because there were great people in that administration who were hired from 95 till 2001, all the way up to here a year ago, two, and there were no valid reasons. It is from these arguments that today we are setting up a special state office in order to take special care of exiles or refugees in such a way that if we go to arguments contradicted as my neighbor Ana Lovrin says often then the ministry sends a message when it abolishes one administration and lowers it to the level of the department, it clearly shows that less concern about what this administration is about and now the department has been established. I think that, the fact that we've never been as much in this assembly as there are today. The fact that there are several ministers in the government who come from the island or are tied to the islands is very much so that there has never been a minor concern for Croatian islands in the last ten years. And for this reason, as well as my colleague, Boris, I expect the government to arrive at the Parliament as soon as possible with a report on the implementation of the Law on Islands and on the effects of this law, so that we can see how much, for example, in the last year for which a report on the Croatian islands should be submitted and how much more visible it will be, according to the proposal of the state budget, be when we have a report on the implementation of the national budget for 2012 now in the Croatian islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35011	Thank you very much. The last replica in this debate will be her colleagues Davorin Mlakara.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35012	I'd start with that if no one was an island but I don't know if the islanders told you that you weren't on the island and that you didn't have to wait for the ferry if we could already go home to shorten the debate even though I helped it last longer than it should. But now, no matter what, Mr. Minister, when you're already off the island, and you might have a chance while you're waiting for a ferry, and maybe even before you answer the question I asked, why an emergency procedure? Can you ever accept an objection that there is no reason for the urgency of the procedure, nothing justifies the applicant that this law is passed ad hoc in three days and as regards the quotation of the Law on the System of State Administration, given that central authorities carry out administrative tasks, this does not mean that they should adopt second-degree solutions if they do not have first-degree bodies. But it's for another debate. I'm actually wondering, can you once accept the arguments that there is no reason for the urgency of the procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35013	The answer to the replica of Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35014	For these rational reasons, I will try all three replicas at once. If he can't then I won't, then I'll do the next opening. So as for these lines we can go to, there will be no cuts in the number of lines, so in the season there will be an increase. And as for the price, I'm not sure you have accurate information. And as for the contract with bus carriers and others, it will certainly be signed because since I read it in the paper, I've already checked with the Secretary-General, and I'd only like to add two more technical things. So there were always reports of the Island Law coming to the Parliament somewhere in the late spring, and the debate would be either at 7, or at 9.10. The moon, so in 2012, will certainly come to the Parliament... For 2011, what's wrong with the agenda? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That should be as soon as possible. As for the matter of urgency or not the urgency of the procedure, so on the question whether the Government can once accept that something is not going into the emergency procedure, the answer is certainly possible, but it seems to me that it will not be in this case, but it will probably be quite certain when it will be accepted. There's so much for this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35015	Now we're going to conclude a debate on this agenda point, and we're going to vote when the conditions come to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35016	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 317. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I'm asking the secretary of the board, let's get in line. Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of Amendment No. Article 1
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35017	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35018	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 2nd of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35019	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35020	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 3rd of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35021	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35022	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of the SDSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35023	He's identical to Amendment No. 1. The Committee on the Constitution is considered
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35024	So it's consummated?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35025	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35026	Thank you very much. Did the promoter have anything to add?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35027	No, we're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35028	Thank you very much. Please close the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. But before that, it is a warning that most of the MPs, i.e. to pass this law, are required. 76 votes to pass the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 7 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Design and Fraction of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the state administration, in the text proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35029	We move to a united debate on the following two points of the agenda: - Final draft law amending the Law on civil servants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 318 - Final draft law amending the Law on the Payments of State Auditors, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 321 The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and amendments to both legislative proposals may be submitted until the end of this debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. I ask the motionary's representative if he would like to further explain the proposals? Yeah. Minister of Management Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35030	Since by the last ferry, it's another 3.5 hours, then we'll have enough. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made several regulations and decisions at its meeting at the end of February to reduce the coefficients and basics where this was possible by 3% for the salaries of most officials and state officials and other public employees who had paid in the way they had already been arranged. For two groups of officers to reduce the 3% coefficient, I need a decision or amendment of the law in the Croatian Parliament and that is now on the agenda. One refers to executive civil servants whose coefficient of complexity is above 3.5 so above the maximum laid down in the 2001 law, while others are auditors whose coefficient is also determined by law. And this is a proposal that also reduces the coefficient by 3%, and this has already been made for other civil servants, for civil servants, for civil servants, for judicial officials, and for all whose most salaries through the coefficient have been through the basis of the government's authority, this is in Parliament's jurisdiction, and here this is actually the operationalization of that decision to cut salaries by 3%. And as we spoke in the past law about the Ministry of Regional Development now, we could talk about the Ministry of Finance analoguely, but as the law comes from the activities of the Ministry of Administration then on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I propose them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35031	I thank the minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, the debate will be shared by two colleagues Boris Blazekovic and Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. Regardless of the time, I'm going to take another chance to talk about something more about civil servants or public administration officials. This amendment to the law, as has already been said, refers to the reduction of the salary coefficients of government officials by 3%. Too bad, it's too bad it's got to be cut up on civil servants and that's for managing the staff. Unfortunately, though, the realities are like this and we cannot escape from real life, real situations, and circumstances. In a reasoned proposal to amend this law, it reads "Because of the strong impact of the global economic financial crisis, the GDP growth rate index is negative, which affects the decline in employment in the Republic of Croatia. In order to ensure the necessary fiscal savings and the fiscal state system and public services, as well as the preservation of jobs and full employment at the time of the recession, it is necessary to reduce labour costs in public and public services at all levels." Before reality, it is not good to push your head into the sand, they need to be faced and found and often unpopular solutions to ultimately achieve the goal in this case sustainability of the system. All of us civil servants rightly ask for excellence. They are a systematic and inseparable part of the functioning of the state at all levels and in all three state independent authorities, legislative, executive, judicial. Without quality professional and professional civil servants, no state can function. All civil servants are ultimately in office and work for citizens or citizens. Some civil servants are direct enforcers of state, or government policies. Many civil servants are in direct contact with citizens, public service users, or public administration services. State officials at all levels must certainly be the most qualified professional staff that Croatia has at all. State officials are a necessary professional staff and thanks to them, the state functions daily. In the vast majority of today's civil servants, they are. It is also true that officials mirrored their superiors, and often the mirror of government policies. It is also true that, as among civil servants, there are workers and incorrect persons everywhere, but they are in a large minority, and this is a minor problem that is addressed by adequate evaluation and firm procedures. As I said, civil servants, public administration officials are of the highest quality, adequately educated and hardworking workers and workers who have earned our attention, our respect and our social reputation. The responsibility of our wrong decisions, false non-life regulations, and this segment of the difficult working conditions of civil servants are often wrongly and unfairly laid down. To us in the HNS, Liberal Democrats, one of the leading problems seems to be adequate rewarding of civil servants and ensuring not only normal but as good as possible conditions for the work of civil servants. If we ask civil servants through the Law on State Officials and its as many as 160 articles of excellence, quality in conduct, integrity in relation to public work, we must provide or at least try to ensure adequate rewarding and better conditions. In addition to the salaries themselves, there is another way to do this and give recognition, express gratitude to quality officials and officials in their quality and dedicated work. This should be nurtured and encouraged by all superiors. One of the particularly important elements is the concern of the continued schooling of civil servants and their professional training and should not be lenient in that part of the country. And let me at this point have a little depression that I've already done once, and that's what I want to do again, which is that we here in the Assembly could do a little bit more for our employees and employees. We require them to do so with the right impeccable professionalism and expertise. In the vast majority, we get it. Like most civil servants today in Croatia, certainly officials and officials of the Parliament as well as most Croatian citizens feel the burden of the global and Croatian economic crisis. But as I have said, there are various ways to facilitate their work and ensure adequate conditions, and I will again set an example. One of the minimums could be to provide congregation officials and officials with such a thing as smaller and medium-sized enterprises, about large ones not to speak at all, so that employees and employees of the Assembly can be found able to park, and let's say here I will now say a concrete example, in the public garage of Tuškanac. That effort would have to be done together. But to conclude, we at the HNS are looking forward to a time when public service will become the prestigious activity of the highest-ranking personnel in Croatia with high wages and recognised social status. We invite everyone, and we will be actively working to honor both the state and the officials in the public administration. Until then, all civil servants and citizens with respect and gratitude should be treated with civil servants, civil servants in the public administration, with firm conviction that at the same time no civil servant may have adequate salaries and poor working conditions do not exempt from the most professional access to his or her work. He's going to go on with his colleague Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35033	Here's a colleague of Gjurkovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35034	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Of course absolutely any wage reduction is never, not a matter of popularity, but the reality of life is that it reduces the standard of all those who are getting paid. So while this law is related to the amendments to the Law on Civil Service Officers, it is better to say to one of the management management departments and authorised state auditors, this is essentially about the reduction of salaries as the Minister of State and Public Employees said in the introduction. However, it is clearly said in the explanation that the situation in the Republic of Croatia is seen by the government in a realistic way by the fall of GDP but also by the key retention of the jobs of all those in public services. What is also important to highlight, especially normally and publicly, is that at this point the public sector has an average of 19% higher salary than the average in the Republic of Croatia and that it has 28.5% higher than the average of the private sector. And this is the key message of this government, that those who create and in normal society, in the market economy, it is quite realistic that those who have risk-based jobs in the market have higher salaries than those who essentially receive salaries based on tax, based on what creates a real sector through added value, or through taxes paid in the public sector. It should also be said that in 2008, wages rose 13%, 2009. 15%, 2010. 1.4% and that's the reality you need to know clearly. This is the time we remember well when it was said that there is no crisis in Croatia and that we do not have the impact of the global crisis that was clear, it is only a matter of when it will come to Croatia. What is also important to know about the 3% wage reduction not only for these laws is that it is average, that the private sector reacted and reduced wages immediately in 2008 and 2009, that the average salary in the private sector from 5700 kuna is reduced to 4600 kuna, making this move by the Government of the Republic of Croatia a real move not only for the sake of the budget, but for a certain balance in the real market economy is a move that is necessary. But it is also clear that all those who are being cut by wages must know that the private sector that is filling the budget, which provides salaries in the public sector, has fallen much more and that this minimum and attempt to keep jobs and the minimum in wage cuts. Of course, the Croatian People's Party club will support both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35035	I've got a report, not a good give-up. Okay, thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Josip Salapic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35036	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Ministers with Associates. Here are five, six of us left to discuss this very important topic, and then sometimes, not because of television cameras, but because of the weight of the topic and the problem, but also because of the number of MPs and MPs in the Assembly, the purpose of some deep debates is lost. It's just that when there's no answer to any questions, it's stupid to argue with yourself. If a civil servant is asked for excellence, if they are asked to do their job well and fairly in any case, they should be properly paid for what they do. Since the reasons for both these laws are that due to the burden of crisis and recession in which Croatia has been in place for several years have been cutting wages by 3%, and consequently that decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by means of a regulation that will also reduce wages by 3% gross somewhere around 231,000 civil servants, tenants. This is, therefore, about people in charge, about civil servants, about state auditors, about secretaries of the ministries, vice-presidents of the Parliament and of the Government, now that I'm not counting by law. What is important to say is that sometimes it is simply necessary to admit that in a situation you can't know or can't do better and that it is better to seek consensus in all political parties than to implement something that is not inexecutable. If Plan 21 in which it was in one part that economic recovery and the re-employment of those who have lost their jobs because of the crisis is one of the most important guidelines of the plan, if it cannot be met, then it is better to acknowledge that something cannot and does not go and seek cooperation in all parties, but to create enemies. Here we were witnessing yesterday's debate in the Parliament when everything went downhill, when simply one inappropriate speech and argument and tension would lead to nothing. Because of the principle and the way we've discussed it at the club so far, I'm going to say it a little differently. We were witnessing that the government with the unions had reached a gentlemen's agreement that those sins, the goddesses, the pay additions, the jubilee work, the prizes, and that they would not be touched in wages. The agreement with trade unions and employees gave up. It was simply necessary by reason of the Prime Minister to move over and out of this measure, it was a reduction in salary 3% gross. Whether it will help to get Croatia out of the crisis economically, we believe it will not. It's just that if it's such a difficult situation, one difficult thing we can do with medical carcinoma to treat the angels simply won't help anyone. If that's the case, and the 3% gross measure seems to be exactly the way it is, and there will be more difficult drugs than the Andol. It's going to get a lot harder. We hope that we won't have to give our employees morphine so that they can hold their jobs, because their wages are getting smaller and smaller, and the cost of living and the cost of family life is getting bigger and bigger. There's an increasing number of unemployed, unfortunately. Nothing changes in that real sector, in the investment. Here I was at the Minister's presentation in Osijek the other day. There are a lot of specific issues, but there were no concrete answers to the real problems, and that is that what is really a major problem is an increasing number of unemployment and less investment. There the Minister of Economy was welcomed by workers of the IK Slavonia who did not receive salary for 2 months, workers of the Bizovaske Toplice there from our district of Osijek-Baranja County for 4 months. So in some difficult conditions, treating such a difficult economic situation with some kind of anolas is simply not going to achieve anything. We are against both of these bill proposals because, if something is said not to be touched then it should be respected or simply admitted that what the Government has predicted by its economic programme that it will not touch wages and pensions to give up, that Plan 21 no longer exists or, unfortunately, in some of these important topics we simply in the Assembly when it is necessary to speak perhaps politically harder, we are having a stronger discussion with ourselves. Because if there are no interested representatives to consider this problem and to talk about the real core of the economy in Croatia, then we will do nothing. The HDSSB club will not support these two bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35037	Thank you very much. The debate on behalf of the HDZ club will be shared by colleagues Davorin Mlakar and Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35038	Thank you very much. Here's to our islanders and the rest of the continent, we've shared time. We'll try to be brief, we'll try and be clear if possible. I would also refer to what my colleague Salapic said. This is one to say the situation has been extorted from the announcement that the government will cut the salary by 3% to all civil servants and all public officials, public service employees. I have to, but I'm going to say without any indignation to say that three weeks ago, and perhaps less, I was talking about the fact that you're pushing a third amendment to the Civil Service Act by emergency procedure. To resist the urgency of the procedure, because it often carries under-determined provisions that will break our heads. Why am I saying that? It's been two weeks, we've got a fourth amendment to the Civil Service Act. In the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues to be addressed by this law, the proponent says after years of consecutive economic growth, employment growth and decline of unemployment, the strong impact of the global economic and financial crisis has turned the trend of macroeconomic developments over the past three years. The decline in GDP has directly affected job cuts in the real sector and a sharp rise in unemployment rates. At the end of 2010, about 260 thousand unemployed previously engaged persons were recorded in the Croatian Employment Service records. What does that mean? The point is, they're unemployed. Whether they were before or never I know what category that is compared to the others. However, the promoter did not write what is much more important, in the end it does not matter how many there were in 2010, it is important that in 2013, there are 375 thousand. It's this trend that's catastrophic, but given the huge number the proposer thought that the opportunions didn't write that number but we talked about percentages of growth, fall or similar things. And now, after two weeks of the third amendment, the proposal again came to pass the law in accordance with Article 159, which is not in line with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that there are particularly justified state reasons to pass this law by an urgent procedure. The more I manage to calculate this quickly if and in all places, these people you're now cutting wages or the coefficients of them are 70. So, this law is a law for 70 people, of which are secretaries of the ministries, deputy heads of state's office, and we haven't calculated this new one yet, which we're likely to get today. It's mostly done, or if we're even better. If all of them were in those places, it would be a number of 70 people. 70 people to drop their salary billing coefficient so that gross wages would be less than 3% cannot be justified by the state's reason for passing the law by emergency procedure regardless of whether they like it to the government or not. It's not an argument from the Rules of Procedure to suggest an emergency procedure. And if you have already mistakenly suggested it then the Parliament should reject such a proposal and demand from the Government that both this law and the previous ones that we were talking about go into two readings. Since we are opposed to all that and what counterpart Salapic said about cutting salaries in public and state services by 3%, we will also oppose the adoption of this law. And we claim that you insult the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by proposing an emergency procedure of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35039	He'll continue his colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Well, it's very interesting that for these two bill proposals the same explanation is in point, point, so it's all written the same. But I would still like to say something else. But I don't think it's a simple time for a man to be insolent and laugh at anyone. So, five years ago, when I told this speaker as a minister that 80% of the RH budget was set up and that without having sex with the right, there was nothing I heard from the other side. But look, after five years, we're discussing a completely identical problem. And what's the biggest problem, Mr. Minister, is that I don't know what function you're in when you're proposing, and when Mr. Mrsic does. For the last time, the practically identical law was proposed by Mr Mrsic. However, I am sure that you will not allow yourself that luxury to say what he last said in the Croatian Parliament that there will be no pay cuts. And 15 days after that, wages are down 3%. So this is one problem that's missing one data actually to be credible, and to say how much you're going to do with this reduction. Not with these 100s and some people, but in total for all employed civil servants and the public, since no longer a man knows what happens to wages in protest. The minister of education says one thing, Minister Mrsic says another, Minister Linic runs away from it and does not want to talk about it at all. And I think it would really be time for you to tell the Croatian public what you did with the salaries in the first place? It's about 240 thousand people, it's about a mass of gross wages about 28 billion, 21 billion and 800, 900 in the state budget, because most of the health pay is paid through hospitals, and it's not an integral part of the state budget, but it's all about 28 billion somewhere. So 3% reduction to gross of 28 billion is somewhere that's 850 million. And in the draft budget, you said you were going to spend a billion and 700 dollars on salaries. Now, where are you going to find that extra 850 million kuna? Or which law you will do because look this is not a topic anyone can play with in Croatia. Because you don't forget that with this reduction he pays 3% and in the meantime went VAT by 8.7% up, not 2%... It's up 8.7%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The current went 20% up, the heating and gas went up 37%, and you add up this pay cut, when you add up the VAT increase, when you add up the price of the energy they wanted us to or didn't want to admit, they make up a very large part of the consumer basket, then you will see that you unfortunately by a quarter, so not a quarter of a dozen employees in the Republic, you have reduced their purchasing power by about 15%. And that's a fact that you simply cannot escape and we cannot go through these two laws and through one regulation brought by the Government ignore notorous facts, notorous facts. Because you with this 750 million didn't help the state budget, but you sent one terrible bad message and in a series of bad, depressing, depressing messages you sent another one. Because if it were a government budget deficit of 850 million, it's about 0.25, 0.26%, no rating agency would do anything the same as no rating agency will applaud you for this 3% salary reduction because it's not a systematic solution to the problem. When, if you want the rating agencies to give you a confession from international financial institutions, then you have to make structural reform, a structural reform that will act on a mass of funds for wages. Look, you've got the pay grade law done, with this 3% reduction in this coefficient you came to a dispute that was three years ago for unions and when you refused to agree to 0.2% starting base. If they had agreed and agreed to the pay grade then I guarantee that today all civil servants and public servants would have stood much, much better. So, what I'm trying to say on behalf of the HDZ Club, is what I'm saying as a minister who's had very difficult and sometimes a little ugly conversations with the unions for many years. I'm totally on the side of the union today, you know why? Because this system doesn't solve anything, this isn't a systematic measure and whoever deals with finance, and whoever deals with public finances can't support something like this, can't support something like this. We must finally talk in Croatia about the mass of funds for wages and we will say that we can allocate so much and so much in the assembly of that mass to make a transition that works towards everyone. Because looking here is one very dangerous thing, reducing wages to state auditors, I don't think they're much more important and much better than everyone, but we're very often calling on them here and talking about amounts of several hundred or billion kunas where they should be in control. They are educated people, there are few of them in the Republic of Croatia, as in many ministries there are special experts, let's talk about their former ministry, there are experts where you simply can't find them in Croatia. People who simply don't know how to do that job, they know 15 or 20 to do that job in the former foreign exchange inspectorate or in the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, etc. And these people, if they leave the state service, they've lost a hell of a lot. And it's not good, colleague Bauk, Mr. Minister, to propose laws like this for the simple reason that this problem is not 1 day old, this problem has been said since 10 months of 2008, no matter how often we hear the story on the left, you didn't want to admit there's a crisis. If someone proposes to freeze the budget, isn't that a clear message of crisis is in the state? You just can't afford to walk around with a urlaphone in Croatia and yell "crisis," so empty the banks and then make a total show. But this problem has been mentioned in Croatia since the 10th month of 2008. the year, which was systematically for three years. And here to say something, and because of the record, and also because of the Croatian public, this is a system of single wage accounting, this is a system that was made, this is a system that the Ministry of Finance made two years ago. All it had to do was finish it and start the salary bill. You know why, well what it's made of, what that system needs to bring. And also for the first time in five crisis years, it happened that civil servants and tenants didn't get paid in time. Here once, HDZ ministers, both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister were ridiculed when they said that salaries and pensions were paid in time. Well, you see, the time has come when salaries and pensions don't pay off in time, and we're not allowed to do it today, because we know what the situation is, and we want to help, and that's why my colleague's debate and I'm going in the direction, but it's not an emergency procedure, because you've foreseen this in the budget, you've predicted a billion and seven hundred million kunas less for wages, and that's what you were told here at the time when the salaries were being made. And we can throw a ball any way we want, but without structural reforms, Croatia will not solve its fiscal problems, no artificial deficit fixation, the deficit is currently exclusively fixed with a tax burden with nothing else. If you hadn't done the tax press as you did on Croatian citizens, the deficit would have been oho ho worse. And secondly, all investments were removed from the state budget. And today, from the state budget, you don't practically have any investment at all. And today the situation due to inaction, and you could have done it because you had a terrible wind in your back 15 months ago when you came to power, is a long way to speak. Today we can already talk about over 90% of the government budget's commitment where it can't affect the expenditure side at all without touching certain rights. So that amount increased by 15 percentage points, by 15 percentage points because you've already cut farmers by a billion and seven hundred million kunas to their spending side. So this is one topic that deserves a broad discussion, and perhaps even one political, economic, social consensus, because without it we will come to a colleague and colleagues that in the state administration unfortunately all quality will go away. At this point when the public sector starts to grow, it will take everything that's worth it from the state administration, take away the people we've trained, which we've allowed to contact and work with international financial institutions and we'll lose them. I say it responsibly here, there's a fellow who used to be present at certain meetings, and he knows well what my views were and I think I have full moral, human and political courage to say this here because this was not once spoken of by this speaker and colleagues and colleagues at all this is not funny. This is a very serious topic, and you don't need to run from it. It's about the fate of 240 thousand employees. This is breaking over a knee that won't do any good. It also reduced the contribution by two percent. He only benefits from the state budget because his salary costs are 500 million less. The private sector of these 2% has no benefit in reducing because, with certain changes, changes in VAT and income tax, three times more have been burdened. Therefore, Mr. Minister, we cannot support such a bill, unfortunately, and I don't think your hourglass is slowly running out as far as the expenditure side of the budget is concerned with this, you're not going to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35041	Now we'll hear a debate on behalf of the SDP club. It will be presented by a respected colleague Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35042	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues has gone a long way but as we can see, this topic is interesting and serious regardless of the time. I don't usually go to sleep one, two hours ago. I could, but I'm sorry about those who go early to sleep before they're like professional services that have to sit here for us. As Minister Bauk on this matter is the beginning, the continuation of what the government started through its decisions, with decisions de facto paying a reduction of three percent and to us officials, so to all officials and all other than these categories mentioned in this section of the law. As someone said just before 70 people but actually ended the process or the job of reducing 3% of the salary to everyone. This is the final part of it. I'm sorry, though, maybe it's not so regulated for the officials to get us here before the Parliament, it's settled at the government, so let's see if we'd be against it. Probably, please don't throw me out of the club. Whether you're up for it or against it. So everyone except education as we know it will have three percent less wages and now and today here and otherwise in this last ten days, 15, 20 as much as it is discussed, a big debate on whether it should, should not, attack on one side and on the other, etc. And I'm really wondering what it's really about. And tonight we heard with the right to talk about reforms and the need for reform. And in this part of the state administration reform, one of the segments of the state administration reform is that it costs less from the pay aspect. So I'm asking him not to throw himself at me another time. Or I'll wait for you to say yours and I'll continue. I'm not nervous. You're distracting me. So one of the elements is savings and on the salaries and other segments of the administration. You can save two ways. If you're doing reform and you transfer people from one ministry to another from service to service, they're back on state mangers. How can you save? Either you cut the number of employees or you cut the salary. Between the two variances to reduce the number of employees or to cut wages I think it's more socially responsible or better to reduce everyone's 3% than to keep 50 or 100 grand or 20 grand or 10 grand or 5 grand, although 100 people completely without any pay. Of course, those who do not do their job well and who do not work and who should lose their job but not because of what costs are to be reduced. And that's why I think this is a far better measure than to say, let's say three percent cut the number of employees. That's another solution. This is better anyway. On the other hand, all these pangs as it is not a social measure, etc. We share the fate of this country's economy, in the real sector, in the economy, ever since the crisis started, 150 thousand people lost their jobs from the state administration, no one because of it. No one got fired because there's no money. In the economy, there were 150 thousand people. So this is only part of the division of how to say fates or those that are in the real economy. And how many lost their job? We saw it. And how much pay have these people in the economy just been cut? Nobody even knows that. There's a pay cut every day and no one's got anything. There are no trade unions or parties, etc. So there's no one's pay cut, but when it comes to the state administration, then they all get up on their backs. Therefore, I am in favour of being solid, which is essential to social democracy, according to which if the economy is not good and if the workers and employees of the economy are not well, and why would they be protected and privileged in the state administration. Let's share that fate. And in the end, if we're for reform and if we're for painful cuts, then it must be felt. It must be felt in your pockets. We could've gone through without this. A fellow Shuker mentioned the deficit. That we could have gone without this measure if we hadn't gone to a deficit reduction, that we'd left a deficit of 15 billion and not 10 billion as it is now. As it was at the time of the HDZ government and took another 5 billion would not have to be reduced to anyone's salary but we could have increased further and divided that by salary and increased spending. So, unfortunately, this is a necessary measure, but a measure that I would actually say is in line with the state of the economy that has been going on for a few years because there people are running out of work and there are less salaries and every day the wages are being cut so can we, too, who are working in the state sector and who are holding us all back in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35043	Two colleagues stand up for this replication. First Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35044	Comrade Jelusic, I think that you had the best intention but I want to correct you because one of your thesis is hard to verify, of course, if you were to discuss official incomes or salaries then you'd be wondering if you would oppose me in the same way as we do now. So I'll just remind you three weeks ago the government came in, and that was my motive for talking about systematic solutions and declaring some of the government's previous officials first to the officials and then raising their salary reckoning coefficients so that the highest was 5.70. The head of HZZO, then they're under it. Then I rebelled against that increase, and I doubt more now that salary increase and transfer to officials after we take the measure to reduce the salary by 3% to all. Which government remembers such a smart thing that three weeks before the pay cut, they raise one small category of people to pay by nothing actually deserved, the reasons they were still as unsatisfactory as now how are we going to systematically solve a linear wage reduction for everyone? Those aren't good measures, and that's what we've been complaining about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35045	The replica matches Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35046	Well, a colleague of the Mlakar is one of the cuts in wages, and the other is the correction of the coefficients. When you reduce your salary, you reduce 3% of everyone's salary because there is or no money, and when you correct someone's coefficient you correct because his work may not have been underestimated by the previous coefficient compared to another colleague who has the same coefficient or lower and does not deserve it. Therefore, there was only a correction of certain coefficients which had nothing to do with wage cuts. In addition, we have already discussed this in this House, and at the end of the course of 2 or 3 or 5 people do not affect the budget in that section so that it may affect wage cuts and affect the budget. It was simply about the correction of some people who weren't, let's say whose job was underrated in relation to others, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35047	We'll hear the replica of Ivan Shuker now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I really had no intention of replicating but to once remove that fog from the deficit reduction. Out of the increased taxes, you've picked up 4.5 billion kuna and you don't pay for a Christmas card and a regression that's 600 and another million kuna. 560 million less you pay your health contribution, and that's already over $5.5 billion, and you've cut the deficit by 4.5 billion. So let's not talk about something that I'm not talking about reducing investment. So all investments practically in school and health care have stopped. And the other thing, my colleague Jelusic, I can't understand right now whether I've heard you badly, so the wages are practically reduced by 3% except for the epiphany where dear God doesn't understand what happened for the wages, so it's a reduction in the salaries of 3% to all of us here, and also about 180 thousand employees in state and public services. So above all, in health care and culture, which are part of the public service. And you can't say that the reduction in the coefficient isn't a reduced salary for the good Lord. The coefficient is the value of the salary according to the professional preparation and complexity of the job, and specific data is given to that coefficient due to some specific complexity. Well, we should know what the coefficient is. And the bottom line is that if you want me to tell you this, it comes from some calculation that's some sort of average salary or something else, and by doing that, you get to the base on the basis of which the salaries of all those paid from the state budget are paid, and also by the basis of that budget base, certain fees are paid. So your coefficient is the basic thing for the salary calculation, it's basic. So the 0.90 coefficient for medium professional equipment is its start, and what is added to that coefficient because of complexity is also regulated by some law. But to say that the coefficients have been reduced by justifying that someone is doing better or worse, I think it's kind of funny and ignorant... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35049	The replica matches Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35050	Comrade Shucker, of course you understand what I'm saying, but you deliberately want to distort it, that's your right. Of course, wages can be reduced by reducing the base as you do by some or by reducing the coefficient as for another group. And that seems to be it. But the goal is to cut the total wage mass by 3% and what's done. What I was talking about and was related to the replica of my colleague, Mlakar, so by increasing only part of the coefficient officials was not in the function of reducing or increasing wages but of dissuasing their value and their work. I was talking about whether it's an increase or tomorrow if we cut someone's coefficient because we think that his job that he's doing is less worth saving or cutting wages. Of course the coefficients... for the whole group you're reducing the coefficients then you're reducing everyone. It was just niveling you understand. And otherwise around the deficits, I know you don't want to hear it, but simply the deficit is less than 5 billion from 15 to 10 billion. The fact that we've saved on some other things is good, that we've done... better to collect taxes that we haven't increased any of the tax rates for the economy, we haven't increased any tax rates for the economy, but we've made a better charge. VAT is tax as you know or do not know neutrally about the economy, it is not the cost of the economy. VAT is not a cost to the economy unlike other taxes that are the cost. I guess you'll figure that out after all these years of dealing with finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35051	We've still got Branko Vuksic reported, but since he's not in the hall like he hasn't checked in. Final Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35052	Thank you. Now I have a challenge not to challenge Mr. Shucker in a replica because he said he wouldn't replicate, and I can't do two things. As I said at the end of the last debate that tomorrow at the government's session of law and renewal and others, I can now say that tomorrow at the government's budget rebalancing session, then there will be opportunities for an even wider presentation of what you said would be even better explained only that there will then be a minister of finance on the other hand who will then in one debate be able to answer more competently in that part than I do, so I won't even get involved in seeing that it's rated as a pretty smart move. As for the Law on Civil Service Payments, he was at the debate in Parliament 2000 and some eight or ten years in the first reading, did not come to second reading and the same discussions that were held with the trade unions are being held today. So there are two things left, 0.5% per year of past work internships, and whether the rating will affect the height of the salary or not. But he should be financially neutral in that part because everything that would have consequences for the total amount is solved by the basis, not to elaborate this part that you said. As regards the centralised payment of salaries, therefore, it was introduced, i.e. the Public Sector Register Act of 2011. Public sector employees are listed and then they cared about it, so what we did is we tried and here for last month and managed to get a part of the civil servants paid through a centralized account. This wage delay did not have its financial but purely technical effect and it is already evident that this month when all the data for that group of officials were placed in the register and, as a result, it was seen that there was no delay in the second month. And we will succesively try to centralize the salary bill to all civil servants first, and then go to public services, to agencies, to health care, schooling and all that needs to be done. And here, not to challenge further debate, this law you specifically said refers to a few dozen or a hundred officials, with a wave of executives, but it's very important, therefore, that "usual" officials not be paid less than 1.4, for the executives to be long enough. So when we increase the next time, then we're going to increase these guys a month later, here's what I'm going to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35053	I thank you, too. And that's where we're gonna end today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda. Thank you very much. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-20-0.u35054	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on civil servants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 318. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Law on civil servants in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
