ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54189	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, with the final proposal for a law, the introduction into what we will quickly and deliver to the Assembly, which is the new Pension Insurance Act. The law will regulate even better relations in the pension system, but it is clear to all of us that the pension system at this point is as burdened with the problems, especially the financing issue, given that we spend about 36 billion, to collect the rest of the funds somewhere from other sources in the budget. On the other hand, it is a question of the sustainability of pensions in this way when we talk about the first and second pension pillars. The structure of our pensions is also problematic. In our pension system there are a relatively small number of pensioners who have completed their working life with 40 years and over and retired at 65 years, only 12% of these pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, while in other European Union countries the number is much higher, even over 60%. The average age of Croatian pensioners is significantly smaller than the average pensioners in the European Union, and this is the consequence of what has been happening over the past 20 years during privatisation, the way of privatisation, we can say robbery and privatisation. Therefore, the amendments to the Constitution that go to ensure that this part never become obsolete have been adopted. When we talk about the first and second pension pillar, in the new Pension Insurance Act, we will propose certain shifts to ensure that pensions from the first and second pension pillars are sustainable, that they be around 60% to 70% of the salary. So all those who retire in 2030, so the first big wave of pensioners from the first and second pension pillars will be somewhere beyond 2025. We want to make sure that these pensions are 60 to 70% of the salary. Speaking of the current system, I have already noted that only 12% of pensioners have full retirement pensions and when we put it in relation to the average salary then that pension is somewhere around 60% of the average salary, but the problem is that we have a lot of other pensions that are early pensions, pensions that are disability pensions, family pensions. They're less important than retirement. The average pension in the Republic of Croatia when we talk about the general system, so all pensions are about 2480 kuna, which is extremely small and it is clear to all of us that there should be some steps in this area, but everything depends on how much the economic power of the Republic of Croatia will be to endure this pension system. One of the problems with the system is disability pensions. We have over 25% disability pensions, we are champions in Europe. Europe has between 10% and 15% of disability pensions, we have 25%. Neither are we a country that has such a bad environment and a working environment that we have so many disability pensions, nor are our citizens so sick as opposed to other European Union countries. That's where we have to look through two segments. One segment is that at the time of privatisation, people were forced into a disability pension even though they did not want to do so, nor had conditions for the reason why they wanted to clean companies from workers and sell them or privatize them in some other way. And on the other hand, it's clear that there were anomalies in the system and there were deviations in the system. One of these real examples is the Rubal affair where corruption has been proven and pensions have been obtained in a way that has been paid for by experts. What we have come into contact with both insurance companies and citizens has seen is that it is necessary to create a system that would prevent disability pensions from being obtained in the way they were now obtained, so that certain restrictions should be put in place all with the goal of those who are trying to hunt in the blurry or those who are trying to obtain a pension by false documentation or corruption to make it impossible for them to do so. So we also set up a special department at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, a special sector aimed at ensuring that all disability pensions pass that filter before they become truly enforceable because it has proved that we can make very clear and very effective decisions of medical professionals. However, what was a hindrance to all this was that we were disabled in further action. So, even at the time when they would have established illegalities and would have found that there was no basis for someone getting a disability pension because the solutions had become final we did not have the opportunity to stop these pensions, but we had to go to long-term court proceedings which basically made it impossible for them to be effective and led to the system not reacting in the way that it should react. So we passed a regulation with legal force during the Parliament's session. So, this regulation is now being translated into this law before you that allows us, in those cases where we have doubts that it is illegal to obtain rights in the first place, based on false documentation or corrupt actions, that in that case we can suspend the pension payment, restart the procedure for the assessment and assessment of disability and then either continue to pay off that pension or suspend that pension. The Rubal affair showed us what it looked like and in that Rubal affair we took 22 pensions and launched the procedure to restore the non-income profit. We also launched procedures within the system where it proved that in the system when we talk about the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute we have an inappropriate number of physical disabilities, health damage. And I don't believe it's that hard to work at the Pension Insurance Office itself, that we have so many physical damages that carry with them and certain rights, and that rights that are related to tax relief, to the right to release toll payments and other rights. Therefore, we have also gone into review in this area and will continue to audit. What's also a problem is that the state doesn't have a record of who's all got physical damage and disability at the moment. Therefore, we do not have a list of these persons in the system of the state administration, so we will have to use other records of the tax records of the Croatian highways in this review. It is simply very difficult to determine who in Croatia has a solution for physical damage. The first flash test made in the system. So, we said we'd go first to clean up in front of our own house and show that in one of the district offices of 140 employees 44 have some physical damage. In the audit, we then found that 22 of them either have no documentation or no documentation is missing, or there is doubt that the documentation that was proposed does not correspond to the truth, and then we started to review all these findings. We also moved on, so that in Zagreb, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office of 600 employees 200 has some physical damage, which tells us that we need to review these physical damages, because they were obviously given hand and hat. Of course, whoever has that right, that right can and should be realized but that it is necessary given everything that has happened in the system and what we have in the system, I say we have over 25% of the disabled. So, disability pensions in the system that we need to see how we're really going to ensure that the system is not entered by false documentation and bribery. Also, at this point in time, the process of reviewing individual disability pensions is based on or applying by citizens, based on the application of other entities themselves and also on what we have seen ourselves, given that we have the right to see into the files themselves. Clearly, it is not possible to go now into a systematic review of disability pensions and this is not our goal because 315 thousand people who are currently in a disability pension are practically impossible to re-audit. It's doomed to fail, and we in the system wouldn't want to correct one injustice with another injustice. We have therefore made these amendments possible for HZMO to act on official duty in any case where it is established that there is a suspicion that the pension is earned in an illegal manner and clearly allows us to initiate proceedings in all cases where we get the knowledge that someone is getting a pension in an unworthy way. On the other hand, the amendments to the law have introduced another newspaper, which is that one who has physical damage, who has a disability pension, means the solution to a disability pension will be audited every three years. All in order not to miss all those who don't belong in the system, so all those who try to hunt in the blur. We're setting up a Center for Medical Engineering. Thus, an independent centre through which all those suspected of being obtained from the health system will go through or that further tests are needed. The centre will be entered under the code, so it will be artificially trained in the system and thus allow one objective control, independent control which will also become one of the dams that those who do not need to enter the system do not enter the system. Together with the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth we are in agreement and it will be very soon and the Law on the Single Body of Art because we want that part to be even. This means that, throughout the system, the state is being trained in the same way no matter where or where the system is located. We think that this unique body of art will also make it impossible for what's been going on over the past few years. So everything we do right now, we do everything with the goal of having the right to disability, the right to a disability pension to get it done as soon as possible. On the other hand, all those who have fished in murky, who have untrustworthy documentation, who are suspected of having documentation that does not correspond to their degree of disability, or which is not credible to initiate the review procedure and that, based on that review procedure, they either confirm that finding or revise the findings. I note that we are not meant to go into everyone's audits, so it's simply something that's practically impossible. But on the other hand, we want the system to react very effectively to all those cases where there is a suspicion that a disability pension is earned in an illegal way. I note that this is not directed against any group of people with disabilities, nor was it our intention. A fake disability pension is a fake disability pension no matter how much she deserves it. And with this we're establishing a system that will be a system that will prevent people who don't have the right to a disability pension from entering our system. I note that this system is not aimed at reducing the number of disability pensions because indeed those who are disabled in a physical state, who have damages, have the right and have to get a disability pension but all those who try to hunt in a blur to make it impossible for them. The system is in place, the system is at its end. So, next year, the Center for Medical Engineering begins to work, starting to work as a single body of medical expertise. A system of assessment of skill has been established, since the first, second degree and this body at the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, which is the body responsible for monitoring the solutions and supervision of what is being made and how is being carried out. On the other hand, we have also improved the work of medical professionals because they have to make new decisions about whether someone is able to work or not to work in that section to indicate which jobs a person is able to work for. Therefore, we are introducing a system of professional rehabilitation into the system. So, the new law that is in the parliamentary procedure on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. So a system that should allow people to stay as long as possible in the work process and then have a disability pension as a result. Because after all, retirement is much bigger than disability. So, we are establishing a system and we hope that by ending these reforms in the pension system and in the system of professional rehabilitation, the system will succeed in cleaning up from those that do not belong there, effectively preventing pensions when we talk about disability pensions from getting illegally but on the other hand and allowing those who have the right to retire to get that right quickly to be objective skills and to have the right and those people in those cases when they are not satisfied to have the right to a very rapid revision and very fast solving of their problems. I hope that these amendments of the law will be supported by all clubs because this is one of the measures that goes towards really entering the system of people who have to go into a system that simply can't work anymore because they simply don't have the possibility of being physically damaged to continue working, but in any case, the goal is for all those who have the ability to retrain, to work in another workplace to stay in the work process and continue to work. I hope that we will get support for these changes because they are going to take care of the state, to fix the law, and to allow anyone who has the right to a disability pension to get that disability pension and get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54190	Thank you, Minister. Let's go to the replica set. The first replica and respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54191	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister here has presented a series of data in a selective way so that, without doubting the good intentions or desires that I want to achieve here, but just a politicized image is created here. The minister said that there are 10% to 15% of disabled pensions in Europe, and the percentage of pensioners in Croatia is 25, and then he tied it to robbery and privatisation, and he didn't mention at all the Homeland War, war and war situation because it would be logical to say then what percentage of these disabilityes, or those pensions, were obtained on this basis to get the right picture. On the other hand, 12% of the pensioners have been employed for 40 years and over, and it is not said that a series of pensions has been obtained or given the principle of solidarity. If we remember farmers getting pensions not because they were paying but because they would have health insurance, so it should be eliminated. There are also categories where we from today's Peace Fund pay those who used to invest in federal funds like these pensions of JNA officers who have been paid into federal funds that have not yet been resolved. So all of this affects the picture of the pensioners and this data, and it's not brought out, but then the picture is created now and all of these 315 thousand people with disabilities who are retired are all problematic but we're not going to do everything the minister says but we're going to do it selectively. on what basis and when. So for this very sentence, we should give a complete picture of it if we want to understand the problem we're discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54192	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54193	So I haven't spoken and differentiated disability pensions in my presentation because all disability pensions are equal. So I don't share disability pensions on defenses, disability pensions from work for me and for the system are disability pensions, and that's how they should be seen and treated. And we don't have to share in each other's ways. The disability pensions are our expression of solidarity with people who can't do these and those reasons, so I haven't even listed the averages of individual disability pensions because I think all disability pensions are the same for me. As for robbery and privatisation, I only referred to the time when it was done that people were forced into a disability pension to free themselves of places. So it's known and everyone knows it. As far as the very ways of retirement are concerned, we know what it's been like for years, and that's how it is, and you can't go back. We have as many as we have, we have a million 250 thousand pensioners per million 350 thousand workers, 1:1.19, and that's the picture we have right now. Twenty years ago, we worked in Croatia for 2 million and there were 500 thousand pensioners 1:4 we will probably never reach that level but our goal by 2020 is to work for 2 million pensioners in Croatia, which means that we will come somewhere at 1:1.5 and it would be ideal 1:2 so we should work in Croatia 2.5 million people then the system would be quite sustainable and every minister of finance would welcome it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54194	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you spoke, and it is good that some order will be introduced in this area, however, you did not mention that the Croatian Pension Insurance Fund pays 120 million non-retired pensions not on the basis of disability but on the basis of non-retired pensions. So from year to year, it pays 120 million more that million more and will not be reduced, so 120 million non-retired pensions are paid from year to year. This is what page 3 reports here cases of deliberate failure of the death of pensioners to continue payment to an unauthorized person and a number of other cases. So 120 million kuna. Furthermore, when you talk about disability, then we need to know, and you did not say, that disability tables, disability assessments are not equal for those who have unfortunately acquired disability in the process of working and disability in the evaluation of defenders, military persons, etc. There are much lighter criteria for the assessment of disability in these others. And there's a difference, for example, here's unfortunately a leg amputation in one case and another is a 20% difference. At the disability assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54196	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54197	That figure that's extremely large for non-refundable payments will be reduced. And what we're doing right now is we're doing a system that's connected to the OIB. And it happened to us that the user of retirement died and that we would only find out for three or four months that, therefore, longer than that. So we started bonding with the OIB, along with the nuts, so at this point, at the moment when we applied to the queen of the dead at that point, the pension was suspended at the same time, so we connected the system to each other. As far as the OIB system is concerned, we insist on the OIB system and foreign citizens, so the citizens to whom we pay the pension they earned in Croatia and also in foreign countries. They also have to have an OIB so this last one is ours and the action where we said if we don't deliver the OIB, so again I say to all those who received a warning from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office that they will suspend their pension until the OIB is brought. So we do everything in the system of these non-refundable payments as little as possible. As far as disability and disability assessments are concerned, the unique body of art is very focused on this. It means that throughout the system, then in this unique body will be all the witches from all over the system. So also from pension and health and social care. So, we'll all be in that body and with that we'll ensure that she for the same damage is the same percentage. And that's our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54198	Thank you very much. Honored representative Stjepan Milinkovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54199	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, I've been closely monitoring this statistical data that you've been reporting, and I'm sure it's getting into this percentage of 25% of disability pensions. But you compared it to Europe where the percentage is far less. And in that explanation you said one thought that neither our working conditions were around, the working environment was not so bad that it was a real claim that stuck to my ear. And second of all, we're not even that sick. I don't think working environments and working conditions are so ideal since we're witnessing what difficulties entrepreneurs face, craftsmen testify to it every day. And, of course, those who do or cannot warn many times about this problem because you know what follows if they say something. The other thing that, the other thing you said we weren't even that sick. I say otherwise, we're very sick. Starting with the World Health Organization's definition that health is a complete mental, physical and social well-being. We're very sick. In a society where the number of poor is growing every day, it is certainly the generator of a very large disease. And war traumas as such must have left the consequences. Well, of course, my farmers in the country who have been working hard for many years, too, are anxious for existence today. They're also very sick. And these indicators from the health system, waiting lists, all the difficulties and costs needed to provide funds for these costs of treatment are also in favour of our being very sick and should also be taken into account and distracted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54200	The conclusion is everyone's treatment. Next replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54201	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am sincerely amazed by your findings about the OIB. The Law on the Personal Identification Number makes it clear that it enters into force 1. 1. In 2011, all state institutions and all institutions using it in parallel throughout 2011 used by the OIB and the unique home number of citizens and after 1. 1. In 2012, no state institution, no other institution can use any identification number other than the OIB. And it's weird that for practically 2.5 years he's been paying off his pension without making... It's an elemental matter within the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So countries, I'm not talking about state bodies, I'm not talking about politics here, I'm talking about the operating state. If we all unanimously supported the OIB in this House as one of the main instruments for the efficient functioning of the state administration and that citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not have to run on some kind of confirmation but that this will be done through the information system by the administrative organisation in the Republic of Croatia which is doing this job, so this is really amazing that practically two years behind me, my colleague Radjenović, you could have done it last night or this morning and you don't need to give consultations here. So that's one thing. Another thing about life-affirmation. There are also several hundred thousand in Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina pensioners who earned their pension in Germany. Once a year you get a letter, actually an envelope with a return, with a paid stamp to confirm whether you're alive or not. So it's a simple elemental thing. And another thing, all those who didn't report the pension system in time take away those pensions they weren't supposed to get. Therefore, it is not necessary to work out of this political pomp simply to adhere to the rules of profession and trade and to know how the administration works.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54202	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54203	I'm sorry that the respected former finance minister didn't do his job, so in 2011, when the law was passed, you had a whole year to coordinate the OIB, to connect the institutions, to allow the system to work, to connect the pension system with the OIB, to make changes to the law that would allow it, to align the queens of the dead, to connect with the pension insurance, so all of this was possible, perhaps not in 2011, it was possible before. So, quite certainly, the system was, of course, passed the OIB Act, and we all got the OIB, but then nothing was done. What we are now, I'm saying about the system where I'm headed, so neither was she... The Institute of Pension Insurance with the Tax Administration, the Pension Insurance Office was not connected to the queens either, and we had people die and we continued to pay our pensions. There was simply no communication. At this moment, at the same time as he reported that the person had died, in Matica the deceased anywhere in Croatia at the same time was interrupted in the Pension Insurance Office. Also paid through the OIB, most of our pensioners have it, but still 5400 pensioners in Croatia have not delivered the OIB or are not in the Tax Administration, means they have to make a request. We have 40,000 people outside Croatia who deliver confirmations that they are alive at the moment, but we want them to have the OIB and they have all the countries, Slovenia has it, there is no reason why Croatia would not be. Therefore, it is not enough to pass the law alone but to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54204	Thank you very much, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54205	So Article 238 was injured, it's about MPs, but since the applicant here is worth the same rules as everything. Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54206	What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54207	Mr. Secretary was telling a lie. I was not a minister in 2011, another thing if you're talking about something it would be at least good to read the law but your haughtiness has been confirmed in the elections in the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54208	Okay. Comrade Shuker, you are clearly aware that this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and there is no judge or court in the Assembly that assesses who has told the truth, who has not, or can have. There's no data in one place. So no injured Rules of Procedure, and if you think that I misread the Rules of Procedure, I interpret, send the request to the competent authority, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that he gives his sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54209	I won't file a written request.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54210	Then, for the future of this session, you lose the right to raise a tile because it is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. ... It is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. ... We can't discuss this anymore. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We can't discuss this anymore. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. ... And send it to the Constitution Committee. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's standing, it's standing, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports on this bill? They don't want to. We're moving on to a debate. The debate is first conducted by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. The SDP Club of Croatia is next in the Croatian Parliament and representative Nadica Jelas. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54211	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with an assistant, respected MPs and MPs. In fact, the problem governed by this law has already been resolved by the Government's Regulation on Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, which was adopted in early September of this year by the law on the authority of the Government of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. So by adopting this law, which I believe will happen tomorrow, the said regulation would cease to apply. It is generally known that the pension insurance system is indeed burdensome with problems. The total expenditure of the pension system in the previous year amounted to nearly 36 billion kuna. This can be said slightly less than a third of the annual budget of the Republic of Croatia. And there would be no problem if those 36 billion kunas were charged out of contributions, but the contributions amounted to just over 19 billion kuna, so the difference from even those 17 billion kunas made Croatian citizens pay increased taxes. Furthermore, as we heard earlier from the Minister, Croatia is the first in the European Union to share disability pensions in the total number of pensions. At the end of 2012, there were 322 thousand 186 disabled pensioners in Croatia, which is 27% of the total number, while in the European Union the average is at 13%. Full age pension and it is really hard data, there are only 12% of pensioners in Croatia, so only every eight. The high share of disability pensions is largely due to two facts. The first fact is the Homeland War, which is the fact that other countries in the European Union have not met. The second fact is that in the 1990s, so during the conversion and privatisation of disability pensions were, we must say, a sort of exit or shelter for many who were out of a job. In fact, the law that regulated disability pensions in terms of the definition of disability was very mild. Very little insisted on the criteria and medical profession. That's why we can talk about our kind of solidarity. On the other hand, the pressure on doctors, the witches was huge. The number of retirements was so great that every doctor could practically say it got a sort of quota for persons who could be sent to a disability pension. The checks did not control whether the pensioner was really incompetent to work, but whether the doctor had moved the quota. If he didn't transfer the quota further, there was really nothing to check and touch. The result of such treatment was the number of approved invalidity pensions in some years passed by 20 thousand. In his presentation, the minister reminded us of the case of Dr Rubale, who had arranged false solutions for bribery and thus permanently damaged the state budget. Because of the false disability, unfortunately, and then, but today, they were suffering real people with disabilities, and we all know that it hurts more well than the injustice itself. The Minister of Labour and Pensions System announced a sharp fight against the abuse of disability pensions to bring the number of disabled pensions in Croatia down into some European frameworks. The cleaning began in his backyard as it should be the principle, so he found that in the Croatian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance every fifth person with disabilities, that out of 3,000 employees in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, even 600 of them had some degree of disability or reduction of their work capacity, which gave them a number of different benefits from free parking, over free or cheaper highway tolls, customs privileges for car imports, and ultimately the right to compensation for physical damage and the natural right to a disability pension. The highest source of abuse of pension insurance rights is the fact that medical documentation is based on the basis of which authorised experts give an opinion on disability, physical impairment or general incompetence to work arises outside the pension insurance system, i.e. they are created in health institutions. In order to remove doubts about the credibility of medical documentation, cooperation with Croatian Health Insurance Institute controllers has been established, which at the request of the Croatian Pension and Disabilities Insurance Institute check the authenticity of medical documentation with special emphasis on the existence of continuity of treatment. In addition to the abuse of medical records, damage to the state budget is also done to other forms of abuse such as cases of deliberate failure of the death of pensioners or cases of long-term non-performing payments. So the citizens of Croatia certainly do not lack creativity to cheat on the state. In order to increase efficiency in detecting and combating such bad practice, appropriate organisational changes were also carried out, as of 31 December of last year, the Committee for the Audit of Disability Pensions which was working within the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which was established by the Committee for Audit within the Ministry of Labour and Pensions. According to Minister Mrsic, it should be a kind of CSI for disability pensions, with the aim not only of detecting fraud and malfeasance but of certainly equating the practice of skills. In fact, one of the steps of change in the entire system is to change the very concept of disability pensions. It will no longer matter what a man cannot do but the solutions should be what a man can do in order to qualify for another job. Only in cases where it will not be possible will such a person go into invalid retirement. The training money would be provided in the Rehabilitation Fund, i.e. in the state budget. And now a few words about what is specifically changing this law. Therefore, this law allows for the suspension of pension income payments in cases where the Pension Insurance Office is not able to obtain by official means certain information or a certain correction necessary for the payment of pensions and the party does not deliver them within the time limit set. Further, the law introduces the possibility of reviewing established rights based on disability, physical impairment or general incompetence during the application of those rights, as the minister said. It'll be done every three years. The mechanism is such that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office can immediately suspend the pension payment. If the check-up finds that the pension is false, it will require the refund of paid pensions, and if it is found that, of course, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office is returning the money for pensions that have not been paid in the course of the investigation. This is a far more efficient instrumentation compared to current practice. According to existing rules, in the event of a suspicion of a false disability or a false invalidity pension, the case was sent to the State's attorney's office and only when the long-term court proceedings could be suspended and the payment of the pension may be requested to repay the unaccompanied money. This law also provides for the possibility to amend the right of pension insurance law by a new solution if the original solution affects the law, international contract or a certain general act to the detriment of pensioners, or if some new facts affecting the rights of the insurance undertaking are found. And finally to conclude. This is a small law by volume of supplements. So, it's only 6 articles, but it's large by their meaning, that's what it wants to introduce order into the system, and we know that the pension system is absolutely the most expensive resort, the most expensive system in our system, and not only in our general country. Therefore, this law is expected to have major effects in terms of savings in the state budget due to the implementation of more effective supervision and control, i.e. the removal of all irregularities observed so far. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54212	Thank you, too. We have one replica, respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54213	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Comrade Jelash, you have again begun telling the same story to continue on to the minister. I didn't want the minister, because it's kind of a duty for the minister to defend and propagate his policy. But we're MPs, we need to tell the truth, and ministers are allowed to go left or right a little bit. The truth is that during the conversion and privatisation there were robberies, in my opinion the truth is that in this respect the number of people with disabilities increased, that some people were sent just to clear the space for... these factories. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the truth is, colleagues are next, before conversion and privatisation, before privatisation thanks to the collapse of the socialist economy or economy, there was great unemployment, and during the first year itself, there were hundreds of thousands of unemployed as a surplus labour force due to the collapse of the socialist economy. The example in Split, Jugoplastics 13500 unemployed, failed before conversion and privatisation. First she fell apart and then she kind of privatized. And you know that when? During Racan's government. Marin knows very well, he's not here, Racan's government is... these joints of Jujuplasty. Juvinil failed before it was privatized. We need to tell the truth. And then it was cheaper for the state to pay normally and send it into retirement than hundreds of thousands of people to keep on the streets unemployed. Then there was this conversion and privatisation, and then there was the Homeland War and the people with disabilities tied to it, along with the Homeland War. And that's it. And you keep connoting when the robbery during the privatisation was HDZ. A month ago, my colleague Jelash published a list of our 250 capitalists of the richest. None of them are HDZ. All the members were the Alliance of Communists, and what you didn't send to us in the HDZ is your secretaries. You stole our revolution, the HDZ poor remained poor or underground under the battlefields and your communist directors took the whole state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54214	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54215	And what should I tell my colleague, Marasovic? You're such a very nice parliamentary representative. First you said that I wasn't telling the truth, and then you actually repeated everything I said in a way that you said that it was really socialism, and the malts all collapsed into socialism. You know that's not true. So privatisation and conversion started in the '90s, and it's known who was in power and who's been running the country since 1990 on this side. So it's a time that's known and it's the biggest crime of the HDZ authorities, so privatisation is done in a way that has been carried out by an enormous number of unemployed. Unfortunately, the number that we have today is largely dating back to those times when it was precisely this terrible robbery of Croatian produced and natural resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54216	Thank you very much. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54217	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you said I was losing my right to breach the Rules of Procedure by the end of this session. I claim that you have violated Article 236 by that provision. The Rules of Procedure, I quote, "The representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure gives the President his word as soon as he has asked. The speaker's speech can't last that long and that long, and now the chairman is obliged to give an explanation after the complaint has been made. If the representative is not satisfied with the explanation given, he may announce that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system will apply for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure." So, yeah. I said I couldn't stand it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The request shall be submitted within 24 hours, a representative who does not submit a request in the form of a request and shall lose the right to speak within the time limit referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure referred to in paragraph 1. So I didn't do either, or the other, or the third. Therefore, in accordance with Article 236, you could not tell me this measure that you presented because I simply said that when I said that I would not file a written request, I practically said that I accept your reasoning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54218	I think quite differently, and I'm staying with what I said. Paragraph 3 states: "A representative who does not apply in the form and within the time limit referred to in paragraph 2."and you didn't and you said you wouldn't "this article, loses the right to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this article until the end of the current session." And what you mentioned would be at the next session. So, if you are not satisfied with my interpretation, I warn you again that this is resolved by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you very much. We have nothing more to discuss. ... On behalf of the club about what? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54219	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament I am honestly surprised by the interpretation of you as an excellent lawyer I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club of 15 minutes to decide on how to continue to participate in this session because this is a fundamental violation of both human and parliamentary rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54220	There's no breach. You'll get a flat but not now because there's no breach of any kind. ... You do, but you need to explain the break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the club break, but not about what we've solved. This is resolved by the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the political system. If you want something else, you can have it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54221	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament has a phonogram of this session and I am really sorry that we are having this debate about facts that are white and clear, but good. So, I've asked the club to take a break about taking our stand on how to continue to participate in this debate because obviously when someone bothers with the arguments should not be presented in this assembly. So it's about that, not about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54222	I'll give you a break, but it's handled by a measuringly competent working body, and the decision of the working body is confirmed by the Parliament. You can get and politicize and go ahead. We'll give Stan 10 minutes, at 10.40 we're here. It's 10:00.26. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 10.35 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54224	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. So faced with the fact that we did not want to talk about it, but we must say that this law is the consequence of a single regulation, even though it is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure when the Government of certain legal regulations can be dealt with by a regulation. So if an emergency is created at the time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet, the Government can pass a regulation with the legal power to bridge the problems of not calling an emergency session of the Assembly if it is not quite business-based and that is ok. However, when you look at this law, the regulation was adopted on 5.9., and the constitutional provision on the start of the session of the Assembly began on 15.9. every year, the autumn session begins. So if we had discussed that regulation in the first week of the session that began the session on 18.9., we would have made it clear that there is a certain urgency. My colleagues and colleagues, today on 24.10, therefore there was no urgency for this issue to be addressed by the regulation. But there was one process in which one candidate for the local party elections needed priority over the other, and this is a topic often discussed in the SDP stands. So this is what we want to object as a HDZ club and what we are constantly objecting that we are all parliamentary representatives in relation to the Croatian government and the government's actions and the government's representatives in this House. Because I think that if we look at the Rules of Procedure, then there was no basis for this law to be placed on the agenda as a practical debate on the regulation that the Government has adopted. Another thing that we, as representatives of the HDZ Club, want to know whether we are working on the Rules of Procedure adopted by this High House, which we did not agree with as a club because there were a series of interpretations that do not strengthen and give strength to this House of Commons, but give strength to some of the others who come to this session occasionally, so they teach us lessons first and foremost I think of the Prime Minister. And the other thing is, when the debate of individual MPs from the opposition doesn't fit the presidents of the session then they interrupt them by saying it's not according to the Rules of Procedure like this, it's not like that. In the last week we've witnessed several times, I'm going to point out two equative examples. The first was the replica of counterpart Frana Matusic, who was interrupted by Vice President Stazic for no reason whatsoever but what happened happened. Yesterday, fellow Milosevic wanted to bring out macroeconomic indicators which I know the rulings are not listening because they are not at all pleasant and beautiful to hear but he presented them as an argument to say what attitude the HDZ club will take. And the third is what happened today, and I quote Article 236. "The representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure is giving the President a word and my request. The speech of that representative may not last longer than 1 minute, and the representative must immediately specify an article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury he is referring. The chairman is obliged to provide an explanation after the complaint has been made. If the representative is not satisfied with the explanation given, I withdraw, he may "announce that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will submit a request for an opinion on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The application and paragraph 1 of this Article shall be submitted in writing and must be reasoned upon within 24 hours. A representative who does not submit a request in the form of a request and loses the right to speak within the time limit referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article about the breach of the Rules of Procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article by the end of the current session." So I was given such a measure as a representative of the club. You see colleagues and colleagues that there is no basis for such a measure in our Rules of Procedure. So I'm the President of the Parliament, whom I highly respect, and I suggest that we get out of this situation through that system and I see that there are no winners because there's no need to treat who's right and point that out. But why did I ask for a break on behalf of the club? For the simple reason that as a club, we cannot allow ourselves to be anyone's firing bag, to be the subject of arbitrary interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. If I hadn't been satisfied with what the President of the Parliament said, I'd have said I'd file a written request. I said I wouldn't file a written request to that, I guess it's clear to everyone that I said I was accepting what the President of the Parliament said. And Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, I would really like to ask that there is no need for this bickering, I think that we should be more careful how and how those who propose legal acts in this House stick to the rules and rules, not to use certain laws for their own political campaign, and then finally what would the Zagrebs say to blow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54225	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, you have used the right to speak for the club for five minutes unrelated to what you have announced, so you have the possibility and the right and you took advantage of it. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will most modestly answer you, I remain at my position, that is the measure decided by the competent authority, which is the Committee on the Constitution and the political system. Thank you very much. It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and Honorable Representative Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with an associate. First of all, I would really feel the need to comment on a few introductory sentences when the minister explained the causes and gave an assessment of the situation of our pension system and generally several notes as to why it was so. He mentioned, perhaps this cannot bypass the eternal theme of conversion and privatisation as the root cause of this condition. Although the conversion itself began in 1988 and the first problems in that part of the whole process. But at the same time, of course, not a word about the essential reasons, which is a great Serb aggression. One third of occupied territory and a total devastation of over 40% of the pre-war Croatian economy. The whole of Slavonia, practically to Virovitica, has been destroyed in economic terms and is therefore physically destroyed. Let us remember the Karlovac and completely destroyed economic operators, Sisak, Petrinja, not to say south and non-existent tourist season until practically '97. A year. These are not the reasons for our economic problems for this, for this minister and for this government and for this entire left-hand side. And another finding. Do you really think and I see that you're increasingly sorry for the socialist communist economy and you're probably forgetting some of the things that you've been living in at the end because we're somewhere similar for years? Do you think the socialist economy in Croatia or perhaps in some extended Yugoslavia would have a chance since in the whole world, it seems to me that such models exist only in two other North Korean regimes and elsewhere? I think there's still hope in the world in your heads, and more and more of your moves seem to be the return of socialist economies, postulates or rules, and unfortunately we see what your results are. Furthermore, of course you're saying that he was spotted in your preamble, in your assessment of the situation, a growing number of people who are looking for a disability pension. Imagine 2013 in such ideal economic conditions when you solved everything more and more people are looking for a disability pension. So is that '93, '98, I don't know what year.? It's 2013. But of course you're suggesting in your bill of law and in your assessment that they're probably fake. And that's why you're taking rescue measures. And you don't think maybe it's the desperate moves of people who want to solve their inexplicable economic situation by escaping to what kind of secure status even if they've reached for it. Is that, is that the result of your government's economic policies? You're saying that more and more people today are looking for a disability pension. And that's what you wrote in there. Which are the reasons, the fake and the money in the blurry. You do that all the time. Try to think about the reasons why these people want it today. But here are some and of course necessary comments about the law itself. We heard about the very reasons for this proposal from the minister, but it has sought to justify the need for these amendments in fact opened a series of doubts as to whether these changes represent a real tool to address these anomalies and possible abuses in the disability pension system. A fellow Shuker has already said. So, on September 5th of this year, the government passed a regulation with a legal force 10 days before the parliament's legal start-up deadline. And now those provisions of the regulation are being translated into law. In the light of the regulations of this Act, a number of natural serious reasons are cited, which are why these changes are being adopted and the objectives that are seeking to achieve these amendments. We therefore also hold that insisting on resolving issues in the area of pension insurance in such a hasty way that this problem is misused for daily political purposes in order to essentially get the impression that something is going on in the public eye. And that's already under the test recipe. First, some kind of problem is launched in the media, for weeks a public scene has been used to self-promotion packaged into a cellophane of some sort, as a sort of preparation of the terrain, and then there comes a rescue solution. And three times the same. The first regulation at a time when Parliament does not work, a few days before the start of work, so the regulation is translated into law. And here we have heard that we have been listening for weeks to prepare a new Pension Insurance Act where those same provisions are incorporated. In a month or two, these same changes go through all administrative procedures three times. And we must conclude what has already been said that government regulations in Parliament can only be made exceptional. And what exceptional situation was that a regulation that entered into force on September 14th had to be adopted? What did this regulation serve except for a good topic that will allow the campaign minister to have free space in the media? As it ended, we saw and you failed to convince your members in Zagreb. The assessment of the situation says that in all phases of business processes, previous controls have been installed in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for the purpose of ensuring the legality of the pension insurance rights. In addition, there are ex post controls that reveal errors, irregularities and fraud that result in the payment of income from pension insurance to individuals who do not belong to them. So there are procedural controls that are embedded in the very process of coming out of this status and there is a control fee. However, it is concluded that the problem is expressed in determining invalidity pensions because the documentation establishing and gaining the right to a disability pension arises outside the pension system, pension insurance. So, the problem is that the documentation that determines and acquires the rights to a disability pension arises outside the pension insurance system, it writes. If it is suggested that one other state system, which is probably a health care system, I quote as follows: "...it often significantly produces errors, irregularities and fraud when determining the right to leave and disability pension. The minister often says that it can't be that sick people or that we have such poor working conditions that I absolutely agree with, and that's what's sick. We claim that 313 thousand 752 disabled pensioners are too many. Does the Ministry have a relevant assessment based on the experiences it has gained by applying this Regulation to how potentially false it is? There is, of course, a comparison with the countries of the European Union, companies that are incomparable. What a member state of the European Union has had this kind of aggression, devastion, destruction and spiritual and material that you forget in the last 50 years. Based on what has the ministry found that these three articles will solve anything? The whole problem is solved by introducing procedural assumptions that it can be controlled whether the rights are recognised on the basis of an overall assessment of the state of employment. Under what system can untrustworthy medical records be issued? If it exists, then is it not a system in which we have serious problems and which needs to be treated seriously? According to the proposed solutions, when it all comes to the introduction of new control mechanisms for the reason that there is a suspicion that medical documentation is issued falsely, we do not solve the causes of the problem where it arises, but rather some parallel competences of different parts of the state administration are further complicated, we accumulate, we rejuvenate the work of state institutions, and we further undermine trust in them. We are obviously not able to deal with the real causes of the public sector problem properly, but rather one potentially incompetent or perhaps corrupt bureaucracy solves a new one, and we think that it will be better. Here with this law should be clearly and several really interesting solutions. In Article 1, paragraph 3 is added, which states that the pensioner or the pensioner from the pension insurance that does not supply the correction or the information required under the specific rules for the payment of those receipts will be suspended if the institution does not make such payment by official means. If the Bureau can't make the official route. In addition to that, it writes an explanation further that the Institute cannot obtain an OIB from the users or from the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance. So they figured they'd solve the problem by suspending the pension payment for these people. You just can't believe how someone could think of it and dare write it. So who's betraying the OIB to this country? So it happens that the IRS won't deliver the OIB to some people. And here's how the administration remembered to solve this problem, transfer it to the citizens and no one at all. And you're saying you're bringing some work into the country. You'll suspend your pension if you can't get an OIB official route from the IRS. So I think how much longer it takes to go through that despite what you're saying about how you've introduced order, you're solving mess problems, and now what are you doing? What a mess of your own to solve, to drive people away. What mechanisms can someone then solve their OIB problem if they cannot solve the state institutions among themselves. Whatever interpretation you can make up here is just amazing. Of course, among those 5500 non-recorded users there are different cases, but are you solving a technical problem or perhaps you want to solve a team and some, or maybe there are other reasons why you are doing so, and you have not listed them here, of course. We can only guess. At the end of the day, of course, in the context of what we've heard, you're going to find it hard to convince us that you have no intention of dealing with certain groups of disabled pensioners, the more this is the way you're making these changes, the more you're suggesting that you do. A regulation two days before the start of the Parliament's work, no public debate is conducted on the regulation and then, of course, since you must do so as to push it into the House as a law, without the same possibility of a hasty procedure to lead any serious debate and to understand what you really want to do and because of all of course the way in which you are... and because of the solutions that you offer serious problems here, no one is bickering and disputing that they should be resolved, we have no reason to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54227	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got a dozen replicas, so let's get in line. Tomislav Žagar is a respected representative and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54228	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to start this replica with an important fact, and it's about the amendments and additions of this law, and I'm going to ask the minister at the beginning of this session the question that a quarter of the pensioners are receiving disability pensions, and every fifth employee of the pension system has the status of a person with disabilities, which means that this situation will be regulated because about a billion kuna is actually damaged by the state budget, so we can evaluate it. So this change in that direction goes, and everything the ministry, the minister announced, is preparing. I said this because here it seems to me that you tried again, it's not the first time, and I would say it this vividly, in my personal opinion, no one has the right to put their paws on the Homeland War or wear it or even HDZ. The Homeland War was waged by all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who participated in it and of course this Homeland War is sacred to our people. But at that point, you said that no one was and that especially we on this side didn't realize how much damage the Homeland War actually brought. We're very perceptive, and we know he's done some damage. However, do not forget what is the basic sin of privatization that was just done during the Homeland War. So privatisation cost this country dearly, especially since it was committed during the Homeland War. And just one more thing. When I say, in Slavonia, we say you don't play too hard, and when you talk about North Korea, I don't think it's appropriate to interfere. I was born in that system, I went to school, I started studying, I broke up when I went to the Homeland War. But it's really not appropriate, not even this system, the system of ex-boyfriends that wasn't good. If he was good, he wouldn't have failed like that. But comparing it to North Korea isn't right, and especially to us representatives who don't really have much to do with that system. Because in the end, you have to admit HDZ wanted, and he could, he could have done a 90-year lustration. The late President Tudjman went with another idea, the idea of reconciliation. I personally think that this idea was a good idea, but today, 20 years later, this idea of reusing is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54229	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here you are, saying that the Homeland War has brought damage. You must be confused. I'd say the damage brought great Serb aggression, and the Homeland War knows what it was. And you probably shouldn't use it anymore on this occasion. I just said what the minister didn't mention as a fundamental cause. I don't know if he agrees with that, of course, that great Serbian aggression is one of the main causes and even these economic realities of our day. This was not mentioned, but the main reasons for the pension system's problems cited conversion and privatisation. That's the facts. I don't know why that bothered you. I didn't say anything, and what hasn't been established or suspended here, so of course I had to mention that myself and we here think that these are actually the root causes of many of our problems today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54231	New replica and respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54232	Thank you very much. You've spoken to a colleague, you've mentioned several times that this authority is incompetent. Because according to your criteria when it's not stolen, then power is incompetent. You must know that 50% of pensions are paid out of the state budget and only 50% out of contributions. You must also know, and you certainly know that since the 1990s, funds have been both retired and healthful. In 2003, when you took over government, all state-owned companies were also full and full of funds, because they were like human bees and those who had managed until then. You've come as well as the bumblebees have desolated everything. You talk and spit about it and you say you'd want some socialist economy. I'd tell you fellow dear and esteemed, don't spit in the glass you used to drink too much from. And as for socialism and socialist ideas, you need to know that we don't want neoliberalism, we don't want this one selfishness that led to the global crisis that you continued during the government. That's not what we want. You must also know that the SND group, and on their initiative of more workers' participation in the process, the social process of creating new products. Because it's not normal that the risk is social, and privatisation and profit is private. Therefore, what you must also know is that the European Commission, where it is still already in the European Commission, is already seriously considering reforming EU legislation in order to increase labour participation because without it, there will be no exit from the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54233	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So despite your efforts and your colleagues I doubt that England and America will be a land of proletarianism, it will not happen as much as you seek it. And that the government is this incompetent, so that's a notorious fact. Well, that doesn't take any more of these kids who's gone away so they don't have to listen to what's being said here on your side. It's 340 and a few thousand unemployed, a drop in GDP, and it doesn't even make sense to repeat it because it's a waste of time especially for you. And do you know when the Peace Fund broke that year, when the first pensions from the state budget were started? You don't know? 2002. It seems to me the same time as your authority, and about what happened, so if you're talking to all of these, I don't know how many years of HDZ government. I was only two years old in the end. 6 years in a row of economic growth over 5% and the slightest unemployment before the crisis, of course. However, and what has been done in the last two years by HDZ authorities to overcome the impact of the global crisis, of course, you have, in a very short period of time, overturned it and by returning to some of the elements of the socialist revolution, it seems to me that we continue to sink further and further into it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54235	Thank you very much. A new replica of respected MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54236	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague, I was ten when the former state fell apart, and you're giving me lessons that I want the United States or I don't know who as a land of proletarianism. Well, buddy, if you want to look for former communists, you'll find them right on the other side of the assembly a lot more than here. That's for starters. Then you lecture us on some democracy, honoring the minister that a very ugly comment on how he was not elected president of the Zagreb SDP, and I say that we have introduced democratic standards that your members can only dream of. They don't ask questions. You've only hired them in these same bureaucratic systems you call tromium and ineffective. You say it's a dirty way of introducing order. So I'm wondering, I don't know a colleague did you sleep over the last two years? So which government has left us millions and millions of unpaid tax debts? So is this government? You say you've only been Minister for two years. Well, this government is only two years old. Something that has been systematically destroyed for years can't be fixed in two years. You say disability pensions, now they're more wanted. So I can ask you again, and who retired these great men in the voltage of a system whose system was divided by a fist and a hat of disability and others? And now that he's trying to get a line in here, that's not good. So maybe it's because you're afraid someone's pensions might be questioned, so someone's name won't be mentioned again? Well, I mean scary! You may be ashamed, I can tell you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54237	Thank you very much. Answer? Nothing. Here's your esteemed representative, the Drinker, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54238	So now whether to waste time or not to respond to this replica here, I'm not entirely sure. If only this government had continued to maintain the trend left by the former government, it would have been great. I must remind you that in 2011, so in the second year here is my mandate, and also the first year of some of my colleagues who came to that government, two quarters was economic growth compared to 2010, 0.8 and 0.6%, ended with 0 in the end. But here's a year and a half it took you and those little shifts to actually cancel out and get back or get back everything that we've successfully coped with within those two years. Well, you can tell by the explosion of the number of unemployed. 315 thousand were registered at the 12th month of unemployment at the Bureau in 2011, today in half of the 10th month there are over 340 thousand. It doesn't make sense anymore to say it's your legacy. Your legacy was halted by negative trends and should have either improved those trends or continued to do something rather than all the opposite and vice versa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54239	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected MPs of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54240	Thank you, Mr. President. In this debate on behalf of the club he has essentially continued, but he has a right to do so, in one such way let me say uncultured and even slightly primitive way of talking about the subject he was talking about, and you use it on any subject to talk about. However, I remind you, Mr. Poppie, you were a minister, right, you were Minister of Economy and Labour, Employment, Pension System. You had that system underneath you. Come on, please tell me what specific moves you've made as a minister in and just as you say two years ago? What decisions have you made as a key minister? This government in just two years now, and I'm going to use it just for two years, and it's got the guts to solve things, to bring order to this country. And what you've been doing, the way you've run the country, and we've seen the last days of the affairs that are coming up, the millions that have been stolen from these people that you say today that in extreme misery they're looking for solutions and they're looking for disability pensions. So who brought them to this misery? Who brought them to this misery? And as a colleague of mine said who filled it, who actually drove people into retirement when they were under duress and when the HDZ made it possible in the midst of wartime events to privatise and convert that created the robbery, and since then this country has not recovered. And the robbery continued unfortunately for the past eight years between 2004 and the end of 2011. That's where we pay the highest price, and that's where our citizens and people pay the highest price. And that's what they need to be told all the time, and it reminds you of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54241	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54242	... I really don't know what kind of words I'm saying to a rude, vulgar or anything I don't know how you said it at first to anyone. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] That doesn't suit you any of the things you've been told that's another thing. I am at least staying away from this House for two years using a termology that is more prone to your side, I remember past times and what we experienced from some of your colleagues who are now ministers. I've never been down to that level or going down. And the truth that comes out in the debates if it offends you, hurts and bothers you and listen, that's your problem. But at least this time, citizens have the right to hear second thoughts, have the right to hear other arguments, reasons and controversy argued. And why, of course, you don't like it, but my God. You'll have to stay calm for a while, I hope not that long. If we don't talk about it, and I don't have time to talk about what we've done right now, I'll just repeat the results of the government. So that was stopping the economic downturn, there were 2 quarters in a row of economic growth and ending with 0 and a trend in reducing the number of unemployed. Only these few facts deeply disprove all those attempts that you're trying to disprove in your replicas all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54243	Thank you very much. The fifth replica of the respected representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54244	Thank you, Mr. President. When you spoke about the devastation of the Croatian economy, you cited the Honorable colleague Popijac as the main cause of aggression in the 1990s and as an example of this devastation, you also cited the town of Karlovac. The town of Karlovac was fortunately never occupied, although he was on the front line, but fortunately the town of Karlovac was never occupied. I don't know if your names mean anything to you like Southturbin, Vunatex, Junior, Lola Ribar, Kordun, Prvomajska, steam boiler factory, all these factories hired over 10,000 workers. Workers from these factories did not drive out Serbian grenades or arson, nor aggression but privatisation, and we give it to our party colleague factory, he will sell the land, sell the machines, put the money in his pocket and throw the workers into the street. So you tell me, Mr. Drinker, is that privatisation or is that a robbery? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54245	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54246	Thankfully, thanks to Croatian defenders, thank you, Mr. President, I apologize, my colleague, fortunately thanks to the Croatian defenders, Karlovac was not really occupied, but in what circumstances of these years the Karlovak industry, the Karlovac economy, could function. Do you really think that these giant, naturally giant socialist economies and even if they did have to be restructured and all that is market adaptation, that, in such war circumstances, anything could be done on the front line with their products, their business environment and all their potential partners? So who wanted to come into this environment, which the world business man had at all opportunities and opportunities to get into Southturbine and all those companies you mentioned in these circumstances at all, you can't just do it, I don't know why you took advantage of it in your replica for whatever reason, but it's completely insane that you could say that in such conditions anything could have been done and done seriously in the Karlovic economy, whether it was a grenade or not? So what are you saying, Carl's got no grenades on him? So please, it makes no sense neither to answer nor to comment on such yours...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54247	Thank you very much. Dear Dujomir Marasovic and new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54248	Your Honor, Mr. President. A fellow drinker you two have touched, first in some way you have touched the issue of elections in Zagreb's SDP and who has privatized everything. I feel a little uncomfortable in some way because of these and fellow Shuker and you about Minister Mrsic have he lost or won the elections in Zagreb, I am a bit and local patriot he is a macarian and Dalmatian and in that sense, if he did not congratulate him, he would not have attacked him here or that is why I look forward to him for losing. But I want to say something else that is now a cabaret, it doesn't matter, what was good in the SDP in Zagreb, it's a democratic process and it should continue in other parties if the process and other parties do not exist at all levels. But what is concerned about being members of the SDP party is not a criticism of Miranda Mrsic that is a criticism of the government and serious people in the SDP about it these days and in the coming days will have if they have the brains and have, if they have responsibilities and have, I hope they have thought about it. Because you take one situation me Bernardić young, likable, beautiful and I know him by that only thing he sat down in Warsaw, but what he is now in relation to Mr. Prof. Mrs. Known Hematologist, Doctor, all this and this, and now he's got this one. He's got no sense... or he's got a sense but politics is a strange thing. I don't mean to say nice or good means it's politics and we all need to learn from these political processes. But what I want to relate to you, my fellow Drinker, is that this left-hand side started laughing at me when I said that the privatisation was done by communist personnel. I'm looking for a list of those 250 people who published... They, and from which they defend, and from which parties. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54249	Time's up. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, there is no reply to the replica because the replica was not even sent to you by your respected MPs, but were crocodile tears over something else. It's not part of the Rules of Procedure, but what we can use, so be it. We're going to the next line, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After the publication of the list of debtors, the effect of 50 billion 500 million, following the publication of the Croatian Defence Register, there will be tens of thousands of false defenders as many as 30 and some other applications, following the publication of fake pensions. To be clear, no one in this country is against the introduction of order and Mr. Minister for any such move you will get the support of the HDZ Club but politicizing something is something that brings nothing. This OIB story is ridiculous. The minister is saying something and it's obvious that he didn't read the law and it's logical that you say in your debate that it's impossible that one state institution says someone won't get a pension because another state institution can't get the information. The OIB Act clearly states that since 1.1.2012 the only identification data that can be used in Croatia is the OIB. So, if the former government hadn't done some things in the past two years, so it's been done to create this network because it's been claimed that something has been done all the time, and without the OIB, no quality social policy can be conducted, nor will you, Mr. Minister, be able to do what you're saying. So what I was saying four and five years ago is I'm saying the exact same thing today. And I know well what and in what state I left the OIB on 31.12.2010. The fact that it may not work for someone that the OIB is working on is that many lights and moral authority will come clean and it will be seen that things aren't exactly what they are, they shouldn't be cost by the poor people of the Republic of Croatia. So these are probably pensioners who are somewhere else and I think state institutions must cooperate with each other so that Croatian citizens can get what they belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54251	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54252	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, yes, we absolutely do not dispute the fact that there is certainly, as in all systems and everywhere in the world, and the abuse of certain privileges or certain opportunities to in some way come to non-conventional benefits or whatever, as you call it. And we just want some things that are constantly being built into very frequent amendments and additions to the law, we want to realize that these problems will not be solved by these moves. Because then some kind of solution happens where bureaucracy goes to another bureaucracy. I believe that it will not lead to the desired results for which we would absolutely like to see this whole action that the minister leads to eventually succeed. And it must also be if it has not been so far and if there is a problem with insisting that state institutions solve problems between themselves. We can't and can't constantly and constantly transfer to the citizens. And that's the OIB. If there is a problem in obtaining an OIB by citizens, then if the official institution so requests from someone else that it is thought that it will be easier for citizens to win the entire administration if the administration itself is not able to do so. It was both intent and purpose, and that was also the purpose of it, and that is why we have found it a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54253	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54254	Thank you. Well, here's a fellow drinker I agree with one part of your debate in the part where you pointed out that additional administrative barriers or obstacles will not solve the fact and that is the problem we have today regarding disability pensions. So strengthening red tape certainly won't solve the problem. But in the part where I disagree, it's a diagnosis or your opinion or attitude, and I would really agree with those who do, and it's my opinion that the generator of this problem was certainly a conversion and privatisation, not a Homeland War. So that's what I mean, it's my opinion, it's nothing else. Because the Homeland War was the opportunity in which we created and freed the state. Created after 900 years. And if the war was an obstacle to the arrival of new investors and the development of these companies, it is, so it was no obstacle to fast conversion and privatisation without money to certain people who later destroyed those companies. And indeed this process of conversion and privatisation in my opinion was the generator of these problems with this number of persons with disabilities pensions we are meeting today. And I think it's our systemic problem when we say today that we have 500 thousand people with disabilities, that we have 400 thousand people with disabilities. This is not the real state of Croatian society and we have a social problem. I think that, however, where there is actually a problem, that this government has no idea at all that such major social problems can't be solved without a minimum of consent and with other political actors. They think that as most of these social problems can be solved according to their patterns. They won't be able to solve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54255	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54256	You were talking about the failure of a state institution and you were wondering how it was possible that the tax administration would not deliver the OIB to the Peace Service and that it was then paying off actually the worker. Well, it's not the only example of the disorganization of the state institutions, but why does one always have to get hurt? The entropy was ruled by state institutions. There is no instrument to measure these beings that show disorganization but always all the consequences of it are transferred to the worker. And when the employer deceives him, he does not pay his wages, and when he cheats on him when he does not pay his contributions, even when the state institutions do not work among themselves. So the Peace Bureau has been paying off for years and today's pensions for dead people. It's like the home office and pension office in different countries. We have so many indicators of disorganization that it scares. But always the poor man. The state is simply harassing its people, the state is harassing the Croatian people. As a rule, however, something else should come to the Assembly by an urgent procedure if the pension system is to be systematically resolved and these are pension funds. The only benefits of pension funds are the management companies of these funds and, above all, almost the most, the managers of these pension funds management companies that no one is talking about. Or where they invest or what they invest, where they ruined the money. And they don't forget not to think about the state and the future pensioners but to lie down and get up with only one word on their lips and that's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54257	Thank you very much. In the name of... Would you like some? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I don't. Nothing. On behalf of the proposal, Minister Miranda Mrsic is respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54258	I'm sorry HDZ won't support this bill, but that's what we're gonna do in the end. Let's clear up that OIB. Minister Popioac, former Minister of Popio. Well, you were the head of this system. When I took over from you, you had 80,000 pensions that were paid without the OIB. You were the minister, you could have arranged with your colleague, Dalic, in the IRS for it to be networked. 80,000 pensions were paid in Croatia without the OIB. We solved it. We put together the IRS, we put together a pension. And at this point there are 5400 and something left, at this point 5,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have an OIB in tax, Minister Popiac, former Minister Popiac. The IRS don't have any, the IRS doesn't have any records of them. Well, people say it's the easiest thing for us to do from the IRS. At this point we have 5400 and some of our fellow citizens who don't have an OIB and don't even have a JMBG. Whether it's real or not, we're clearing it up. At the same time, 40,000 pensions are paid outside Croatia and these users have not requested an OIB. They can very easily request an OIB by sending a request and a copy of their identification documents and that is all they need to do. After that system... but we cannot do it on behalf of them, we cannot make someone who is in Slovenia, who is in BiH, who is in Serbia and that is it. So we're not harassing Mr. Maric, for these 80 grand we haven't asked anyone or asked if there is or isn't, but we got it automatically because we networked. Why didn't you do it while you were in power, here's Minister Drinker running this resort. When we talk about the dead, it happens at the time of you. It doesn't happen anymore because the queen is networked. It hasn't happened since last year. It happened to us that people were getting a pension at a bank for 10 months, and that the system didn't even know that they weren't with us anymore. So we networked the system, solved it, but let's clear up that OIB once. We don't harass people, we just don't even have those people in the IIB, we don't even have JMBG, and we'll see what's up with that. And when we talk about whether or not the regulation should have been passed, let me just tell you that these 54812 users cost us 122 million. Do you think we should wait when we get word that we have so many people in that system without the OIB? I believe most of them will get the OIB, but who knows what's going on behind it, it costs us 122 million. Whether we're waiting, and that's the answer to counsel Shucker why we went with the regulation as soon as possible, so let's get this straight, because every kuna is important to us if it's paid off to those who don't need it. 54812 users cost us 122 million a month. It's not small money. And that's why we went with the regulation as soon as possible, not waiting for the Parliament's session, so we can go straight ahead and clear it up, and we'll clear it up, because when you stop someone's retirement, it'll come up with the data they need very quickly. Without this regulation, we had to continue to pay off the pension, whether or not the user provided us that information. And we sent them last year over and over and over again this year, give us information, deliver to us the OIB, deliver to us the OIB, but they were deafening. And so this regulation went quickly to go finally to clear it up, so we don't wait, it's $122 million a month we pay the users without the OIB. I believe it will clear up, that most of them will deliver the OIB, but we don't know what's behind it, we don't know what's hiding behind these 5,000 in Croatia that the taxpayer doesn't have an OIB, but we can't ask for it on behalf of them. ... Well, neither can the IRS, so you have to provide the data of the transcripts and the request, so that's normal to do that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no JMBG, either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54259	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54260	I guess you see the data that he has, so that's the problem. Don't accuse this government of not working, it's certainly working.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54261	Replica, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54262	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Minister. You explained why you were making the regulation. These reasons are absolutely justified but it seems to me, I read in the National Journal, that it was passed on September 5th, which is not two months earlier or I'm the law two months earlier. It started to be worth 14th September if I'm not wrong or maybe I'm wrong, I don't know who's writing in papers and documents, but it doesn't matter now. So the regulation works, you clean up, all right, congratulations on that. In 2011, of course it was the first or second year of full implementation and networking and merger of state bodies that were to this extent informed, but that information lasted before me and during me and you and after you. So it's a continuous process and, of course, in the fifth year of the OIB, there's got to be serious progress and it's okay that you've brought those 80 grand down to 5,000 now. I still think that the approach and philosophy of the state administration and in regulations should be to force the state administration to do something and sanction for something, because of its own inability mechanisms to do so. Whether this is a good example or not, if there is some kind of obstacle or anomaly that it cannot be done without the personal presence of someone who does not respect that system is another story of course. But I'm saying that you can't still have all the responsibility absolutely if an officer can't get something from an officer, we're going to transfer the problem to the citizens. I don't know what's going on or what's going on between those 5500. Maybe people can't come and carry the papers where they need to, so here's the police department and the tax administration would do their job. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54263	Replication response, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54264	Thank you for the commendation that we're fixing the system, we're still doing it, but I'm still saying one thing, that for these 5,000 people, we don't know if the IRS doesn't know about them, so there's no JMBG, there's no OIB. These 80 grand we've taken care of in that year but we've sent these people who haven't delivered to us the OIB we've been sending letters to us, deliver the OIB to us just so we don't hit them with a measure to stop them from paying off their pension at one point. Well, that's not a small measure. So we warned. Some of them delivered, however, 5400 and some were deafened. What's the latest information that we got for 400 and something. So people went to the IRS and got the OIB. So we're still clearing up for 5,000. But it's not, there's no other way. We don't pass that on to people. So simply those OIBs do not have in Croatia at this time. Why don't we see it when we get the data? For almost 48000 users outside Croatia we received confirmations that they are alive, because they always have to, so every year they have to deliver from a competent institution in that country a confirmation that they are alive that we can continue to pay their pension but they also didn't want to deliver the OIB. Our citizens who have pensions in Slovenia have already done so neatly. Therefore, there is no reason why the state or other countries should not do so and it is a matter of a regulated state and respect for the state that gives you a pension. So hopefully we'll break up this discussion about the OIB because it's not a topic. I think bigger issues are disability pensions, a way that really whoever gets it has the right to a disability pension to get it fast and make it impossible for all those who are trying to hunt in the blur to get it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54265	On behalf of the club of independent representatives Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54266	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, the distinguished gentlemen MPs from where to begin. Here I quote an assessment of the situation where it is literally said, I quote: "Infrequently, ex-post control in the system reveals errors, irregularities, frauds that result in non-performing pension insurance payments at the expense of the state budget." I won't read any further, but it wasn't a problem either, and that's where we can all agree. It's clear you need to stop, pardon unfounded payments. The minister spoke of 122 million kuna a month. It's huge money. Monthly, isn't it, Mr. Secretary? 122 million kuna a month, so it's a year, so you can do it over a billion and 500 billion kuna. And it's clear that if anything else has to be done, there's some order. And you need to see who these people are, that 5500. Are they alive, are they dead? Normally if they're alive, if they have grounds they'll get a pension. If not, then you need to see clearly. I mean, if they're not alive, there's nothing to pay them off. I personally believe this law is not controversial. I think it would be far more controversial if this law wasn't there. What I want, however, is to believe that pensions will not be touched regardless of who they are. The fact is that what they were talking about in front of the prime minister and some others here is that pensions need to be secured at an annual level by around 36 billion kuna. And the same is the fact that contributions are supplied somewhere around 19 billion kuna. Now we all agree the reason is that among other things, the loss of those 500,000 jobs or more than 500,000 jobs compared to 1990. Until the economy recovers, there will be no rescue for our pension system either. It's not gonna save anyone, and maybe it's gonna be the hardest thing to do here. And that's actually the point. And now the question is, how do we start this economy? We've heard more or less that the average pension is about 2480 kuna. Someone will say humiliatingly little, but today the public is mostly told what to do with those defence pensions above 5,000 kuna. When we talk about privileged pensions, we talk about those 13 or 14 categories from academics to the president of the state, from ministers to MPs, from fighters of the People's Liberation War to those who were in the Homeland Army, from political prisoners now we have a new category of athletes. From soldiers to JNA or officers to police, from defenders all the way there to coal miners Tuvaluac. A short time ago, the minister mentioned this Rubal affair on several occasions. Those who have abused the system's trust clearly must be deprived of any convenience. On the other hand, if in this country really every third has any physical damage, then we are a very sick nation. We have 25% of people with disabilities in the world of work, and that means that we have 25% of those disability pensions in the pension system or better said or to be more precise is about 315000 people who are receiving disability pensions in the country. A real disabled person should be given every convenience and vice versa. When we talk about disability pensions clearly that in the first place right now should be kept in mind the Homeland War. Croatia has about 70,000 people with disabilities who came from the Homeland War. It doesn't touch. A real disabled person, especially if he's out of the war, always swears more, not simply correct his pension or that disability supplement. I agree with the minister when he said let's not share these people with the disabled. Maybe you shouldn't work distances between the individual disability pensions, let's just say I can agree, but I repeat, people with disabilities from the Homeland War don't touch. And I personally believe that at least the disabled, on the other hand, pensions of the Homeland War and the NORs should be as equal as they are. But I doubt that's gonna happen. It is true what we heard on several occasions that in 1990 we had about 2 million employees in this country, insurance workers. Today we have about a million and 400 and a few thousand employees, a million and 350 thousand insurance companies, a million and 250 thousand on the other side of the pensioners. Or that's that ratio 1 to the 1, 2 or 1,19. And every day, unfortunately, in that bad trend, it increases. The fact is also that at the time of this crisis that destroys or earthquakes the country, as well as the countries in our environment, Croatia remains without 150 thousand jobs. And where did she run out of 150,000 jobs? She has lost 150,000 jobs in the real sector. In the same period of 5.6 years, Croatia has opened up 30,000 jobs in these construction jobs. And that may be the key problem of this country today. So this relationship between the upgrade and these manufacturing jobs. So, out of that number, out of the million and 350 thousand insurance companies on budget salaries, it doesn't matter if it's local self-government without utility companies, whether it's countys, whether it's a state for 350 thousand people. And it's clear that no society can do without a doctor, not without a minister, not without a teacher, not without people working on customs or in the administration, no society without a cop, a professor, and not counting any further. But that the system needs to be reduced, that it needs to be redefined by these public administrations, rationalized there is no longer a dilemma, it can no longer be that way. Here, I was just getting ready for one debate and I got all the data out. So in Istria, in local self-government, I'm talking about local self-government, I'm not talking about state administration, in these 42 local self-government units plus county for 1,000 people. No more than they did in the '90s, and I don't mention the state administration here. And on that we have 1,800 more budget users without utility. And now if in Istria only works in local self-government without public companies 3000 people, if we multiply it by 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb we can speak freely that only in local self-government will I say again without utility systems doing 60,000 people. If we add that to the state administration, we're already on 100,000 people, so they only work in the administration. But if we add education and customs and health care systems and military and diplomacy and police then we come to a brother 300 and more thousands of people without communal services and so on. So, the purely manufacturing economy doesn't matter if it's a trade, whether it's a Buzet Cimos, a pulsed Uljanik or a Brodosplit from Split means there's an employee somewhere around 800,000. And finally, the problem with these disability pensions is that I will again as they all pointed out in the first place put the Homeland War, the wounded, the PTSD. There's these 70,000 people. I'll say war again in second place. Well, Croatia was occupied, and I agree with Mr. Poppie. 30% of the country was what I would say was occupied, occupied, destroyed. We lost a lot of the market. Industrial production simply collapsed. We had an exodus from those parts hundreds of thousands of people. People from BiH, etc. should have been accepted. And exactly, the exit was in some way in the early 1990s, it appeared through the form of maybe retirement care of those who had lost their jobs in one Vukovar, Ilock, or I don't know which, Vinkovci or some other city, and lived by hotels of Dalmatia, Istria, Primorje and so on. And where did these people really want them? The job was not for anyone, they could go to Australia or they could retire. I know that wasn't the answer. It wasn't a solution, but at that point, it was sort of a social solution. I also agree with Duja who said privatisation at least when I look at Istria, you know who privatized it. Those who ran the systems back to the '90s. That's true. Something survived, something didn't, something went to IDS, a lot more to HDZ, etc. But that's a fact. And I agree with those who say that the greatest sin of this I mean the moment of war is precisely that privatisation because it was led at the time when the country on the other hand was destroyed by this great Serb aggression. And where we had the situation of one bullet, another property. And it was that crime to the people. The moment she was carried out. And not to mention that everything is privatized without a single kuna or almost everything. Everything is privatized without any kuna or which were then Croatian dinars or as they were called. And this is the sin of the structure that Mr Bozanic spoke of in his letters and this archbishop of Zagreb. Anything in everything you say? I think we all agree there's no problem in this law. The problem is something else these false medical findings, the purchase of "feeling invalid" and it should be eradicated and therefore should be raised by hand and there should be support for the minister. But it is equally important to find money to train disabled people or anyone who needs to be found in the budget to get people back into the world of work if possible. Now to make Croatia will it be from today to tomorrow? He won't. So in order for us to get back to GDP from the time before the crisis in 2008, and there are a lot of ministers who were in the then government, we're going to need another brother for at least another 7.8 years, and to get back to the 1990s GDP, it might take us 20 years. All in all, without any hard words, I think this law as it was offered, as well as that regulation that preceded it, is not disputed in my court.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54267	Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54268	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Caine, I've imagined I've met you well over the past six years and every time you surprise me again with your let's say knowing the expertise of everything and everything. And here you have shown that you understand both the pension system and the disability pensions, so I believe that this potential will be recognised by Mr. Minister and perhaps in this review committee to appoint you in some way. But I agree with you in one part where you advocate pensioners' rights, and I agree that jobs can contribute to a better status of pensioners, but it certainly cannot contribute to their standard of high costs of heating, electricity and more additional health insurance. And I was particularly impressed by your concern and concern for doctors. They need you to say this, but of course they should be respected and appreciated and adequately valued by their work. I believe the Minister of Health will recognize that these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54269	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54270	I may surprise you with my performances here and there, but you've never surprised me with your performance so far. In fact, I'd be surprised if you weren't as you present yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54271	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke labor colleagues Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54272	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I also had a few questions that I wanted to ask the minister and here on that part of the break was referred to by my colleague Shuker and after my colleague, Popiac, in his debate, referred to a part of the issue of the regulation. The minister tried in a way to explain that the regulation was necessary if it was a work where certain facts should be established and that the regulation should enter into force in some way and that these indifferences should be resolved. I ask the question why it had to wait a year and a half for this issue to be resolved, and it is clear when we talk about it 13 days before the Parliament's meeting, the Government could adopt a regulation, and 13 days later it could have been followed by an urgent procedure, as it is now in the procedure and in the Parliament itself. Secondly, when it comes to those five grand that don't have an OIB, I think it's the best job ever made for teleopers, is all pensioners a mile away, and 200 immediately got their phones in order to get their OIB into retirement insurance, and then the phones got hot on that part. Neither was there any real explanation given to the pensioners nor were they told that they should not deliver the OIB, but only five thousand pensioners, which clearly caused a total confusion. And the second clear question is why such a law that has only six articles takes so long and we are aware that there was corruption, that there were purchases of disability pensions and that it was no secret. The minister mentioned here, and it's enough to remember Dear Rubale, and here today I've been informed that it's 22 illegal pensions that have been paid off. There was the work of USKOK both in Varazdin and in Bjelovar, which paid 2 to 5 000 euros for the exercise of pension rights, there was also a diagnosis 1 and diagnosis 2. We heard today and the effect the minister said on this basis is related to physical damage here in this period, based on this Regulation, 20 solutions that are in some way being examined and the question is whether there is no documentation on what will be determined on the basis of these solutions. And finally, the practical time is passing and here we were talking about 120 million kunas of money that are questionable are and if we continue at this pace of fixing illegality we will have no profession that would do this job neatly and in quality because according to some data, one doctor leaves Croatia every day, which makes 300 to 400 doctors less in Croatia and even quality professions will be no more. We finally have to ask ourselves and I'm afraid this law will not have any spectacular results because a series of circumstances have changed since that mass retirement in 1999 when close to 40,000 people realised that right. And it's been 15 years since. Then there were other legal solutions from today. On the other hand, technological and diagnostic advances in medicine are incomparable, so that some time periods are simply not comparable or realistic for quality pension revisions. Of all things they could have at the end of that folk's shakes the hills were born a mouse. And this law would in any case be welcome to have a goal of preventive action in advance. Because a clear message should be sent to those who in some way want to abuse and about the prevention of corruption that this is not happening in the next period. And primarily I think this law must go to that end. But then it is also questionable what the minister talked about today and said that we will soon have a complete Pension Insurance Act where we are proposing clearly some other solutions that we will discuss and more debate about. Then I ask myself if this is going to happen this year why it needed today's debate and the regulation could be in place by the end of the year and it was not simply necessary if these provisions were built in and the regulation is in force today's debate. I must also look back to the fact that according to recent years, the number of disability pensions has stabilized and that it shows certain trends in decline. So last year, according to Croatian Pension Insurance Institute data, only 3,000 616 people went into invalid retirement and they have an average pension of 1462 kuna. And in the first six months of this year, 1218 with an average pension of 1599 kuna. Which tells us what kind of social situation the new disabled pensioners are in. Indicators tell us that in the last two years there has been a reduction in the number of disabled pensions and has been recorded by about 7,000 fewer disability pensions while that total number of pensioners is growing. And we are not going to solve the problem of disability pensions with this and this law as much as he offers in this case some good solutions but creating conditions for new employment and job creation. Clearly, it would increase the number of employees and improve the current very bad relationship between the number of workers and pensioners. In this area, the government has done almost nothing but serve us certain laws that could have a further consequence when it comes to workers and pensioners in the coming period. So I'm wondering if the work that's going to be offered over 56 hours a week is going to help us have less disability. According to the minister, he has eight hours of rest and sleep in the past. So we're left in the future just to work and we won't need to rest and we won't need to sleep. Such reduction of workers' rights will also be clear for certain consequences of their exploitation, as well as evaluations that lead to the psychological harassment of workers by employers. I wonder if reducing the rights of healthcare users will come to us that we have better health prevention and therefore less disabled and I don't think they will. Will cutting wages and going into the area of poverty and misery help us to become healthier and work longer and longer? I'm sure you don't. And the last example of this shows the free right to treat regular students over 26 years of age who have lost that right. When all of this is considered and we take into account worrying information about how we have 314 thousand disabled pensioners, which is 26% of the total number of 1.2 million, and we should systematically seek to get out of this situation to repair the situation. For example, what was the same talk today about the relationship between disabled pensioners in the European Union is twice as small as with us, with 13%. And I will only mention this example of several countries in the European Union and here is the question of the Netherlands which has 4.6% of disabled pensioners, Greece 5.4, Slovenia 7.1, Italy 9.4, Germany 11.5, Bulgaria 12, 1, France 13.8 and not to count further. We also have this unfavourable relationship to the 100,000 working-age population of 16 thousand is the users of disabled pensions which is 16% while for example in Italy and Belgium this ratio is 3 thousand disability pensions per 100,000 working-active population which is 5 times less than in us. It tells us where we are and for comfort it can be this which today is justified to warn us that this country has been through war because on this basis we have about 60 thousand persons with disabilities, defenders of the Homeland War. In some countries, there is also a different method of statistical monitoring of disability pensions. So the moment he enters the category to exercise his right to retire on some other basis, they are no longer being held as disabled pensioners while with us once he has achieved that right to a disability pension it practically follows him for the rest of his life. In addition, we must look back at the fact that there is a significant number of examples, that really sick workers who are no longer able to do anything could not exercise their right to a disability pension. According to some data I came up with, my disability pension solution failed to meet about 100 people because they died before that. On the other hand, some in full strength are receiving disability pensions, still working on black, which, on two grounds, damages the state. The second question is whether the state is doing enough to keep people with disabilities in the work process, depending on their working ability and to do business, not solely on the burden of the state. There's very little work in that field, and for example, I'm going to take a protection workshop... next to Daruvar, which has 60 employees, of which 45 disabled people who work in that safety workshop. They deal mainly with wood and products and doactic toys and beds and part of the machine park is exclusively adapted for those disabled, which clearly states that both their efficiency and the adaptability of certain operations cannot be competitive when we talk about the market and workers and the protection workshop have not received the salary for 3 months and the pre-fashion procedure is being initiated. Finally, the protection workshop may end up in bankruptcy and they will be a new number of disabled persons with a disability pension, and the coming to work alone represents their life content and they do so with pleasure, but the state in the area is very little working to allow disabled people to be in the work process. And that is why I appeal that the state must take care of such companies and help them survive in the competition because it is the only way we can have more of the ones they create and less of the ones that are on the burden of the state. And finally, the Croatian Labour Labour Party will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54273	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54274	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate. As I said, colleagues and colleagues, of course, when we included this item of the agenda on the proposal of the President of the Croatian Parliament, we continue to oppose the urgent procedure. This is small by the scope of the law, therefore relatively small changes and additions of laws, but changes that can produce, cause significant consequences both good and bad. Therefore, I think it would be good if we had as advocates the opportunity to think twice because any change in the law that touches this large number of Croatian citizens and citizens deserves thinking, consultation, in order to fix something, and surely that the intensity of this law is to prevent abuse and that is good, but often the path that we are going and that is divided by good intentions such that it does not always have to lead to what we all want, and that is a change for the better. The more the minister announced the new law. We are also considering not only the new law, but I think it is necessary to discuss a real, true, real, real, difficult pension reform. I also think that we are ahead of decisions to go right, real, health reform, health system reform, which is why for both of us and for each other, I don't know which one more consensus was needed. So the consensus so often used the word, so actually a corny word that sometimes means something real, but we really need a consensus about this. You can't do any reform if you rely on the state budget with extra billions. I speak here in general, looking back and looking ahead. So the real reforms are something else, the real reforms are to cut the budget, find models how to function. And what we're talking about today is the consequence of one fact, among other things, of course seeking savings on all sides, the fact is that 20 billion for pension payments must be allocated from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia every year. The smaller part of it, so I wouldn't even say that it's 50-50, the smaller part of it can be collected from contributions, most of it from the state budget. It's a system that's unsustainable. We slowly come to ratio 1 to 1, 1 employee, 1 pensioner. That no system, no state would stand. So these are the topics that we need to talk very seriously about, and therefore here with impatience I expect the announced new, completely new law in order to be able to tell here all the truth, all the facts, however painful they are for all of us or for many of us and not look back at what was once but to watch what is today and what will be tomorrow. Is there anything we can do to make it better tomorrow and really our pensioners, but we, too, who are waiting for some before, some later, make sure that we have such a decent pension that they can live on? Unfortunately, today, and that is why I remind you of this urgent procedure that we are rapidly changing this law, which, among other things, provides for, and that it is possible for some pensioners to stop paying off their pension. So we need to make sure that no one to whom this will happen because of the state's intention to edit additionally to edit the system that I always greet. But to make some injustice, because to suspend today any pension other than, of course, some of those that are being paid according to special regulations, they are large enough to be able to save over the past years, so that the people to whom the payment would be suspended would not remain hungry and thirsty. But most pensioners who, on the basis of these changes, are stopped from paying their pensions can really come into an uninvited status. It is important here to say once again about this amendment and all future amendments to the laws that have changed over the past years many times, and so does this law. It is important to note, and it is as good as some kind of guidance to young politicians, and today there are many here in the assembly that still have a long political future I believe, that we should always be careful no matter what position we are in when we talk about such important projects. Namely, I remember amending the Pension Insurance Act when we increased the retirement age. So when we've determined through the law that over the years this age will increase from year to year, and when today's prime minister said that I remember, I quote very well that it's not good and that as he said, I quote when we come to power, we'll get it all back to the way it was. As we can see, nothing can be returned to the old, but we have to work harder and work harder and make a fair profit both our salary and our pension. That's what I say very well on purpose, because today and here in the assembly we often hear statements that were born this moment and don't seem to be standing on historic feet. Very specific remarks, i.e. questions and suggestions on which I believe we will be given an answer. In particular, Article 3 refers to a beneficiary of a right that does not respond to a checkup, which has no legitimate reason to suspend a pension, which is cited as justifiable reasons in brackets as saying: "disease, death, death of a family member, unsustainable travel and other justified reasons." So there are other legitimate reasons. A large space that opens with this syntax of another justifiable reason. My question is, who's going to arbitrate who these are and what other legitimate reasons are? So something that is neither the death of a family member nor a serious illness or an untimely journey. Now that's that legal void, that's that room, ladies and gentlemen, for new abuses. That's the space that needs to be filled in here. Decided here if, as a final result, a suspension of pension payments can occur, then all these reasons which will be taken into account that this does not happen, if no documentation is provided must be written, stated each user, each citizen must know what it is about. Because this is once again a place for someone close to me to respect, and someone who still doesn't respect me. We're all human, look, and this many times today quoted Rubala's case has shown how con artists are imagining. So those who want to get their hands on money illegally, they're very imagining how to play law. And if you leave them a nice space where I can play, one whole big football field legally in which I can play and find always teammates. There are always teammates who will then interpret what other legitimate reasons are. That's why I'm proposing to Mr. Secretary who won't think about it much more. We have to look for ways to have as few laws as possible with so-called. A couch with provisions that can stretch as to who and where it fits. And another remark. In fact, a provision has been abolished that checks do not require persons over 65 years of life. Okay, maybe it's a little early. However, I suggest you consider the following. It's hard, so let's find a limit. Make it 75, 80 years. But it's hard to expect you to know someone at the age of 80 who would be invited or 90 has to threaten and prove and stop paying off their pension because hardly anyone at that age can really understand and fully fulfill what the state is going to ask of him. I therefore suggest that consideration be given to the possibility of setting one age limit above which more insurance companies or users will not be invited. At the end of the finding that here, although the register of Croatian defenders was published, although it was expected that on the basis of the publication of the register and the names, then the availability of every Croatian defender, and then the disabled of the Homeland War, a huge wave of demonstrations, so-called. fake disabled people that didn't happen after all. This, however, shows that all previous decisions, since the disabled people of the Homeland War had to go through a lot of strict checks, that they were correct, of course, of course, that I advocated that I always said that as a defence minister. Anyone who knows that some defender has achieved something based on non-existent evidence, false confirmations or any other way that he played the law is obliged to report it to the competent institutions, and in general to talk about fake disabled people, I don't think it's good. Of course, the Homeland War and the disabled, or pensioners, who come from working relationships. Here, I suggest that, in the final word, the minister answer these questions, so it will certainly depend on how we vote. Are we gonna be held back or are we gonna be in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54275	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54276	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Ministry. I wanted to reply to Mrs. Kosor's last line, but I didn't because I had a word to discuss. So I'd ask myself, who would actually take the role of a whistler to inform things they know or have knowledge or have doubts about some bad criminal acts of abuse, etc. when we know that in our society whistles go by and how they are viewed and how the environment would look at them, mainly when it comes to this topic that you have talked about, and this is the topic of Croatian defenders and disabled people of the Homeland War and their rights that they have achieved on a regular basis, through commissions, commissions for the assessment of disability and the assessment of going into disability pension. But what I wanted to talk about was something else, which is statistics in which it was clearly shown that there were millions and 200 thousand 119 pensioners and 562. Of which 868 thousand has a pension of up to 2 408 kuna. 868 thousand people have a pension of up to 2 408 kuna. The other 260 grand has a pension that is larger than that in different categories. When we look at those plates, then we see it's so-called. disability pension and its average in 1 978 kuna, let's round to 2 000 kuna. In the second section, it is written that the same category of disability pension for HV, Police, authorised officials, DVO, PS and OSO is 3 200 kuna. So the difference is 1,200 kuna. Now that we look at the Institute of Public Finance report, it speaks exactly and asks why Croatia has many people with disabilities pensions? This is a report written that says that the number of disability pensions increased especially in 1999 due to the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act. During that time, disabled workers who received financial compensation for disability were translated into invalidity pensions. Furthermore, the biggest increase in disability pensions was recorded in 2007 because then 5 500 defenders who received compensation for professional incompetence were re-translated into disability pensions. These are the two dots, 1999 and 2007 when there was an increase in the number of disabled persons with disabilities pensions. When you look at the average user age of these disability pensions, then you see that those who go into disability retirement leave early age, on average 52 years and 6 months. Those who use an age pension, or those who are from orderly retirement, have an average of 61 years. But the time to receive that pension is almost the same. Mirnodopa disabled people are 19 years old, military people with 18.5 years of age are on average. Which means that this disability was acquired in the war, though to say unfortunately it worked out that, in fact, it did in some ways, even though they went younger into retirement, life span shorter. Which is most likely the result of disability. So, the Institute of Public Finance, so it's written, it's not me, the statistics are there. But what I especially see here is that every time we have a report on pension insurance specifically tangs and especially hurts that year after year, we have a report on claims for non-regressive pensions, according to the regressive requirements set out in the 124 million kuna report. And year after year. The figure does not decrease, it is always about 120 million kuna. On my inquiry why it doesn't seem preventative already once so that they don't pay off so there won't be a regressive request for it, I didn't get an answer. And it's also known, and I documented here for this Assembly speaker that there were people who died 10 years ago, and the pension was being paid off. So how is it possible for so many non-retirement pensions in that amount of 124 million kunas to be paid from year to year and then regressed? Is this the state's concern about what it has or that this government will not name any more corn or is the situation the same during the HDZ government and during the Kukuriku coalition. It is always a non-retirement payment of about 120 million kuna, as I pointed out from year to year in this House, already in the second term. Finally, the State Audit argued, therefore, and found that it exists, and in its 2012 report said "the audit of the irregularities identified concerning claims for non-refundable pensions and expenditures for the acquisition of non-financial assets did not significantly affect the trueness of financial reports and the compliance of business with laws and regulations, and therefore the State's audit shows and expresses the unconditional opinion received by HZMO". When we speak here several times, a doctor, a colleague and I myself, and I know the situation, a colleague Đurović was even in the Committee for the Assessment and Disease of Disabilities, then we know that Dr. Rubala is not a unique specimen in the Republic of Croatia. Some of the affairs were initiated, as someone here in Varazdin said, and then in Split, then in Dubrava, it seems to me that there are certain colleagues involved in the manipulations and manifestations, and in connection with giving false or semi-falsified writing findings in terms of disability. And it's said that 22 has been established on the subject of Dr. Rubal. Now I know that a colleague is in custody or in prison I don't know if there was a trial, but a large number of those who participated in what happened to them and what about those pensions that came up in that way? Have they been taken away, returned? Were those who wrote false findings processed? How many of these are in the state of Croatia? Or maybe it's a turkey you wrote, so there's almost no consequences for you except there's Dr. The rubal who got hurt doesn't know how either. It is true that Croatia had a bloody Homeland War and it is true that the number of military people with disabilities in view of the number of wounded and those who had the consequences of the war is quite large and then the figure in relation to those listed in Mr Tušak's presentation is 16%, unlike Slovenia, France, Bulgaria and all non-European countries, and we cannot resist it. But to talk about 5500 people receiving a pension not having an OIB, so how do they even get a pension? Is this the number of people who receive non-retired pensions because they don't have an OIB? as many people live in other countries and especially in the environment, I will now not name names, and receive or their ancestors, heirs, receive retirement even though they have died. For 10 years, he has received such a single application of course in the Republic of Croatia in another's name because he has given authority to raise him. No death has been reported, death as a natural occurrence, my God, and birth and death, but they receive non-retired retirement. In this regard, I do not see that there is a hack or concern of this ministry but we have already said that already people who were members of the HVO, and according to the HZMO report there are 6351, family 589 and receive an average disability pension of 2.800 kuna, so they were hit by pension insurance, and others. Not those who live peacefully to say and die in other countries but are receiving non-retired pensions. And that height is about 120 million kuna. Croatia with this number of pensioners of a million 220 thousand is almost 48 of them missing and the number of employees of a million and 400 thousand can hardly be handled with pension payments. The statements that pensions will not be touched and that they will survive only because the state is filling the Peace Fund with 15 billion kuna, 20 billion are from the Pension Insurance Fund, which is acquired by the inflow of funds from pension insurance contributions. Although pension funds should, in my opinion, make much more of not only a contribution but also some other actions and other ways than it is now, so that the budget inflow should be less. In any case, the HDSSB is for discipline and for a clean bill on the achievement of false pensions, unfair pensions and non-retired pensions. And it's good to get a line on it once in a while. But I think more of these announcements are a little bit of a declaration. And here's the big one saying someone was shaking the hills, and there was a mouse born we found twenty-two on the subject of Dr. Rubale or something like 5 or 10, or as Kosor said, there's no tip of any false pensions with the defense attorney. Was it expected or wasn't expected I don't know. But actually some spectacular or mass results from the cry and from the plan to achieve the cutting to say here, I don't like the word fake, the fake doesn't actually exist. The material benefits achieved or profits or what the state will profit from will not be great. We will be left with the same problem of a million and 200, it is not a problem but in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and in this situation it really is when only a million and 400 thousand people are working and a million and 200 are retired like nowhere in the world, and no country in the world is a very big problem. What do we have left? So the rest of us are about to work on increasing the number of employees. That state policy should start by saying that it increases the number of employees compared to the number of pensioners. Such a plan is very difficult to achieve and the number of unemployed has increased in these two years. So in two years you can't see a shift towards that goal. If we had at least 2 million employees then it would be much easier to endure and a much better budget for the Peace Insurance would be filled because the contribution would be bigger and the state would invest less. And that's the solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54277	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We'll move on to replicas. Here you go, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54278	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Grubisic, here's a small observation. So since I'm coming from... So it is not the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has worked alone for many years in this system, and you would be surprised how many persons are willing to report irregularities and who still report such irregularities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's actually the biggest problem we're dealing with is what's left after their applications so far and so the system worked remains on that statement. So the system itself is in an adequate manner not responding to these reports and has done almost nothing to solve this problem and to investigate these reported cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54279	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54280	And that's what I was telling you about. Namely, the number of applications to, compared to the number, the total number of pensioners or those who are in invalidity pensions, these applications, for example, are not large. Here, give us the number and we'll know. And that the pension system, therefore, is a system that should determine the accuracy of these reports to the trom or if the applications are anonymous and therefore not signed then really the question should have been entered into the taste of things or not. Now you have a regulation that's already been part of it for almost a month and a half are not spectacular results and will neither be expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54281	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54282	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic certainly deserves great attention as to why he has so many disability pensions, and you have made it clear to those picks and all that stands with which I agree. But special attention must be earned and for a long time this let's say the disability pensions that came in those procedures that you talked about about those colleagues and who, who took part in these let's say illegal actions. But what I'm saying is nobody's interested, it's just about doctors. No one's more interested than a doctor to solve these problems and get rid of them all the way. Because this kind of distraction, the movement, is always created in the public one particular picture about these doctors, you see they are. So let's just remember that affair with a certain pharmaceutical group when they're on the first without any delay, everyone runs out to see such doctors as they receive, as they take, as they are, like this. So let's remember, so let's also remember the beginning of this doctoral strike when that movie is immediately screened that night, let's say and that's the creation of a negative atmosphere around the doctor. I think if doctors are so important, if they're important, if they're as important as they are, and everyone in it swears that really creating this kind of negative atmosphere is harmful and that doctors are most interested in solving these issues, that all those who use certain means to clear up. And to allow doctors to do quality work as responsible as they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54283	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54284	Yes, the duty officer... they were always doctors, as you yourself have determined your colleague Milinkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when it comes to strike and when it comes to these disability pensions, etc. It is good that there is an idea to centralize, in fact, this commission or the evaluation committee, and then we will know exactly the name and last name of those who work in that commission and who evaluate disability, working ability and everything else. It is not bad and as to tell the doctor as the cannibal and vegetarian say or so, it is already the Croatian television used to react in this way although the public unfortunately is always in the function of the ruling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54285	Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54286	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, you said we have a large number of pensioners. Well, I wouldn't exactly agree with that finding because it's more accurate that we have too few employees in Croatia. That's how it tells us it's been since '90. until '98. There was one key thing that happened when 500 grand of insurance went missing, and we got 300 thousand pensioners. That this number is not a big speech when compared to the 3.5 inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia coming a pensioner. The same ratio is one Denmark which is also similar to the size and population of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54287	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54288	Thank you very much. There are three points left behind your replica, so the number of pensioners in Denmark is exactly the same as in the Republic of Croatia, you just didn't say what the number of employees in Denmark were, and that's what you didn't say, and it would have been worth saying, so let's compare the ratio of the number of employees and the number of pensioners. It's certainly not a million and 400 per million and 200, but 2.5 million, so 2:1 is the relationship in Denmark to the number of pensioners. We have one, one, one. And I don't mind that people going into retirement, that their rights that they get either old, or disabled go into retirement perfectly right, completely legally based on the Central Commission's findings, etc., but I also said in the final section that it would be ideal if we had, at least, roughly ideally, if we had 2 million employees. Then they'd be far better filled with contributions from the pension fund. This should be pursued, and clearly and balanced retirements should be fully clear, transparent and decision-making of the commission, the doctor and the correct one. I wish doctors had paid the proper weight of their work and knowledge, so there would be far less of Rubal and similar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54289	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54290	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with an associate. I will try here in this debate to state my club's position and position on this bill of amendments. So, we, Mr. Minister, first of all congratulate you on the great challenge and not to say the great courage that you and this bill have entered into the reconstruction of a substance that is being talked about in the media, is being exploited a lot, but no one has in any way had the courage to enter into the opening of this process. Therefore, in nomotechnical terms, a legislative proposal that is very short but has ambition to create a major order in the pension system, or not just a pension system, but to consume certain rights from the pension system. It's very important to us because we consider pensions to be fundamental human rights. Peace is a category of acquired rights for us, and we also think it is equally unacceptable to obtain the right to be called retirement for someone, as it is equally unacceptable for this right to be consummated or used unless there is no legal right to do so. So the same basis of responsibility is to deny someone the enjoyment of a acquired right called retirement, as is the same as the basis for responsibility for its unauthorized use. Ratio legis as we see it from this text of the law is to introduce previous control of the rights to pension insurance, introduce ex post control or subsequent control of errors in the system and fraud as defined here in the non-receivement payment based on pension and disability checks. So that's something that you've put here as the basic premise, we totally agree with that. It has already been said that there is an unfavourable relationship in Croatia between the working and retirement population. So in 2011, Croatia had 320, according to our data, 328 thousand people with disabilities pensions, or 27% of total users. Compared to the countries of the European Union, Croatia has a higher share of the expenditure on disability pensions per GDP than the rest of the European Union. Realistically, we can ask a pragmatic question here whether we have a choice or we're going to increase the number of working population by some measures whose ratio is already 1:1 as we said or we're going to extend the working age, and then from the end of the working life we're going to go straight to the cemetery. So that's two things for us, and I don't see any other alternative. A particular social problem is the phenomenon today that young people are happy to live off their parents' pension. That's the thing to talk about too. Now I would like to say something about this very legal text, so Mr. Minister said in the opening section that we should not particularly highlight the OIB as some key point of this legal text. I must say, however, that through several examples, I will put the OIB in the focus of our interest because I have to say here, when it comes to this thing that you want to focus on, it is a disability check, most of the Serb community in the Republic of Croatia have no military pensions, no PTSD, most of it has not worked for the past 20 years, so they have no basis for obtaining any disability pensions. I'm going to talk here about what's interesting to them, and these are already benefits. So, in order for this law to be properly implemented in that segment, I will point to two problems that we have seen in practice. The first problem is users in the Republic of Croatia, and the other problem is users outside the Republic of Croatia, i.e. abroad. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute will suspend the payment of pensions to all non-delivery users of the OIB announced by the competent minister, the gentleman present, Mrsic, adding that pensioners have been notified in writing to deliver the information. It has been noted that it has not done so far around 5,000 400 pensioners who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. For us, we think that the Proposer obviously wants to address this problem through two facts. First through the pension user initiative and second through the OIB. The question arises why HZMO does not require this information by official means from the IRS because it is already foreseen by the legal provision. We point out that because these services, because we think these services are computer-bound, are about pensioners, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. We also know that pensioners today live on the edge of poverty, are isolated, often live in areas where there is no secure transport such as Lika, such as one part of Korduna, etc. And then expect them to have their own initiative in that part of the OIB's application is a pretty big complication for these people's lives. I'll also indicate that we have one tendency to close the post office. Even in one part of Baranja, the post office closed on the islands. It is one small but practical thing that can cause a problem for people in life with the announcement that mailmen will no longer bring them pensions but will raise it themselves in banks or through ATMs or will pay for the postal service themselves even in case the postman even brings them a pension. So it's something that further makes life more difficult for this category of pensioners who live really today at an existential minimum. Another type of problem is the problems that arise for pensioners abroad. According to 48 000 pensioners, pensioners who are paid abroad live today and live most in BiH and the Republic of Serbia somewhere around 18 000. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has also requested the delivery of the OIB from pensioners in other countries, with regular confirmation of life. A large number of users living in other countries do not have an OIB, primarily because the number did not exist at the time of their retirement and was not subsequently assigned to them after they moved from the Republic of Croatia. In practice they are created, in practice they are created crowds. Many users call the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. They point out that users of the application for the assignment of the OIB should not submit it to the Institute but rather to the competent establishment of the Tax Administration of that number, and when they receive confirmation of the OIB of the Tax Administration then they must deliver it to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. And that's where the problem arises. So that's where we complicated, and we unnecessarily complicated these things for these people. I also note here, since it is the users of pension abroad, tax administrations of pensioners, say from the Republic of Serbia, are returning claims for the release of the OIB if they are filled with Cyrillic. So, I won't comment on it any further. On all of this, we at the club think that this thing could technically be interpreted in a way that the OIB problem for pensioners abroad is linked to a life certificate that is required once a year so that this single document solves this problem. The life certificate is otherwise filled by a pensioner, a beneficiary of a pension abroad and is assured by a foreign insurance provider in a diplomatic and consular representation in administrative bodies or in a public notary. The statement should, therefore, be filled in and signed by hand. Therefore, the beneficiary of the property should do so and return it to the service of the institution within the time limit prescribed by law. And that way, we will allow these people who are abroad, and they are prevented that unless they do so within a very short period of time next month, they will not get a pension payment. So, to sort this thing out differently. And I note here to confirm life in the second month are being printed and sent to the beneficiaries of pensions paid in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second month, in the fourth month of pensions in Serbia, and in the 9 month of pensions paid in other countries. Therefore, there is a system already developed, a system that needs to be done. We just need to tell us here in these amendments to the law that the life certificate is relevant, relevant enough and credible document to prove the existence of certain facts which is the intensity of this law. And before that, I want to say that we fully support the proposal's intention to bring order into this matter, and through these examples in life, we just wanted to help make this thing concrete. And now, in the end, I would just open up a question that we haven't talked about so far when we talked, when I talked about pensions as acquired rights, something that someone's been doing all his life, made certain funds paid. We have a specific category of Croatian citizens who were denied for this acquired category in the period '91-'95. I know what the answer will be, but I'm obliged to say it. So it's about some now after many of the dead who haven't experienced getting that well-deserved pension, so somewhere around 20,000 of those users, where it's about an average of 81 pensions per user. Here I'm going to say that we were in a position to deny these people the right to retire by two models in one period of legal norms. One way was the fact that these people received some sort of compensation and were paid through the then Paraphond of the Krajina State, and another model was that they were told that the claims were out of date because they did not report a change in their residence within a period of 6 months. Although it was war circumstances, even though these people were unable to report it physically in the midst of wartime circumstances. So, I'm not going to comment on that here. I just needed to say that there is a certain category of Croatian citizens who, by force of legal provisions, have been denied a right that would otherwise be paid to them as citizens of the Republic of Croatia under normal circumstances and conditions. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54291	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54292	Thank you very much. You were just talking about what I did well in my debate, which is a good part and non-retirement. Although you have processed those pensions that belonged to someone, they have been denied the basis of certain legal provisions. Furthermore, you were talking about the fact that for people living outside the Republic of Croatia, so to speak, so to speak. "A certificate of life." The certificate of life is also a common phenomenon when there is someone who enjoys a German pension in Croatia and every year sends confirmation to Germany that he is alive. So is this. ... A birth certificate? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Great. Now, you've also talked about not admitting any claims that come on the Cyrillic road. Well, I think that based on some reciprocity in Serbia, we should know that in Croatia it is written and that the official letter is Latin, and then it should be Latin and Cyrillic. So, bilingual or bilingual. Why don't you write on both Latin and Cyrillic? So the Serbian memo in connection with you have many who were born I don't know what year of '85, '89, '90. And they work in the service, and they don't know the Cyrillic, do they? Therefore, in favour of their citizens who address the state of Croatia, why should it not be written in both Latin and Cyrillic that it is clear to the official in the Croatian administration what it is, especially when we see how the Constitutional Law is implemented in Vukovar, which is why the letter would not be in two letters, as the Brcko District does when addressing lawyers or court cases in the Republic, so two letters, two languages, however you will. Well, it's not clear to me that you wouldn't think this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54293	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54294	... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54295	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54296	I just said that there are examples where people are deprived of their basic right to retire for formal reasons because they filled out that form on Cyrillic. So, I just want to say that this thing and that formalism can't go that far, formalism by the professional services of the institution to which it's addressed, so far away that some people who may be ahead of their deaths and who may be the last pension, who are somewhere hundreds of miles away, and can't communicate differently to be denied it because they wrote this form in a Cyrillic letter. That's all I wanted to say, and I think we should be a little bit more broad-minded than that formalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54297	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54298	Madam Vice President, fellow MPs and MPs, so let's just clear up this OIB once and put it out of discussion. I say again about the 5,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the IRS and we don't have their OIB in the system. And we don't know what's going on with our citizens. Are they in Croatia? We don't have a JMBG either, and that's why they have to deliver in person to the IRS and the I.D., so any I.D. or passport, it doesn't matter. And that's kind of the way to fix things. Do some of them live in Croatia at this time, so the pension is paid off to one of the banks in Croatia, so it's being transferred somewhere who knows where? So, we will finally come to the conclusion that in Croatia no one is paying a pension without the OIB anymore. I note that at the moment we took over the system, 80,000 of our fellow citizens were retired, and there was no OIB in the pension system to be clear. When we talk about payments outside Croatia itself, it confirms that someone is alive, so what they issue and the administration offices in those countries of the public notebooks did not exceed the evidence that the OIB could be issued. Therefore, it is a very clear procedure. So, a request that's on one piece of paper, a copy of personal IDs or passports from that country where a person lives, by fax, in PDF, e-mail isn't some problem. And just to point out that at this point we're paying out pensions abroad for 123,000 users. So out of 123,000 users in 48 thousand of them it didn't make that request, and the rest is. Unfortunately, we did not succeed in these users despite the fact that we sent them information which on several occasions, given that we had no legal opportunity to force them to deliver these documents to us, this regulation very simply solved it. So the moment you deliver the necessary documents to pay us will be further paid off, until that moment is suspended. So, unfortunately, this is the only way to force all these people who haven't delivered them to us in the past year despite, I think one or five requests have been sent to these users to deliver the OIB to us. At the same time, our citizens who receive a pension from, say, Slovenia not only from Germany or other countries asked for it, the same principle, but it is otherwise called, so they got from the Slovenian state and that is why pension is paid. So let's close this part. So the very confirmation of life isn't enough evidence that we can issue an OIB. We need to take this little step that I'm saying is a very simple request, a copy through fax, mail, recommended letter, PDF format, OIB so we're getting everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54299	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54300	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, assistants, colleagues and colleagues. We all know how important it is to control the application of individual laws. and the best law in any area of life does not give the right effect unless there is control of its application. These envisaged changes are also aimed at controlling some HZMO procedures in the intergenerational solidarity system. Article 1 of a smaller number of users shall require certain data which are not available in HZMO records or which may change each year such as changing the address of the residence. Since the Institute is still missing OIB for 5500 users from pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, the proposed amendments with the suspension of pension payments are extremely unpopular but necessary measures. All beneficiaries of pensions from abroad each year are obliged to provide a life certificate to the Institute so that what we could sometimes read about the failure of the death of pensioners to continue payment to an unauthorized person. We are also familiar with the fact that we are not in everything by economic indicators and some figures in the last place in the EU on one of the tables. According to the number of persons with disabilities, the Republic of Croatia is in 1st place because every 4th pensioner is in disability pension. I'm not so sure that our workers have such a poor job protection and that we are so sick or sickest. We also know that one piece was achieved based on false medical records. In a fresh memory is the versatile Dr. Rubala and his buddies who came up with a very good idea of how to get a fake disability pension. Unfortunately, this example is not lonely, Dr. Rubale was in some other environments, and we the older ones remember very well that they're being dragged out of the former state. Just changed the currency from deutsche marks to euro. For this reason, Article 3 introduces the possibility of an official review of the office which may be carried out by the Office. There are indications that some pensioners, especially disabled, should have been in a wheelchair long ago. What medical records have provided for the undeserved pensions on the burden of all taxpayers and pensioners who have earned their pension fairly. The suspension of pension is also a final measure if the beneficiary of the right does not respond to the review, and for this there is no reasonable reason. Article 4 provides for the possibility of amending and producing a leg solution if the law of the EU law and the social security system or the international contract of the HZMO with other countries on social security is violated to the detriment of the insured person or the pensioner. In the case of new facts affecting the right of the insurance or pensioner, which occurred after the power of the solution or when the Administrative Court takes a more favourable legal position. I just had one such case this year where a pensioner two years ago got a pension solution but then there were new facts. A pensioner in a court of law received a verdict by which the employer had to pay him a significant amount of severance. The tax administration determined the amount of tax and pension contributions the user paid all of this neatly, and the area office did not issue a new pension solution because something like they said was out of the ordinary procedure. These changes today solve such and similar problems. The HSU Club will support these amendments to the law because they are aimed at controlling and introducing work in the pension system in particular with the Institute of Disability Pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54301	Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54302	Thank you very much. You said that 5.5,000 pensioners didn't deliver or there's no OIB needed for... for retirement insurance. But before that, Mr. Minister spoke and said that 10% of the pensioners, i.e. retirement goes abroad to citizens, 120 grand, right? That's 10%. 10% pension goes abroad. And out of that 48 grand if I heard correctly there's no OIB, so 48 plus 5.5 is 53 thousand pensioners no OIB. When you were talking about the checkup. I witnessed as a doctor that I don't know how many times I've written the same report to a patient who's lost a hand job because of a grenade explosion who's diagnosed the same thing. So status... So after amputation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I never understood why he was invited to the inspection as if God would give him his hand to grow, or that he would recover from it. That'll never be clear to me. So, you should make a selection if someone doesn't have legs, arms, so there was a disability, any military disability then there's no need to call for a checkup if the fact is absolutely clear, it'll agree with my colleague Milinkovic, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54303	The answer to the line, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54304	Well, my colleague Grubisic here, and the minister was talking about that number, so it's about 5.5 thousand pensioners from Croatia who have no obstacles to coming to the tax administration to prove with their documents that they are alive and that they get their OIB. And the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is informationally connected and there is no problem in solving the problem. ... The problem is those 40,000 pensioners outside the Republic of Croatia who seem to be not going to solve the problem or there is also a problem and the question of whether they may already be in the world and are receiving pensions as often happens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54305	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague, Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54306	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Since a lot of this has already been said in the debate, I will try only to draw a few lines, a few things that seem interesting to me that should be mentioned not only in terms of amending these and supplementing the law but in general about the pension system. I think the pension system is the system most challenging in the future, and that system will certainly have to be redefined and with many measures corrective. I would here according to what is already mentioned here and that is a large number of people who receive disability pensions, every fourth practically, and then every fifth employee of the pension system who has the status of persons with disabilities and based on it has certain rights. And here it is necessary to distinguish legally acquired rights from the abuse of the system. In the previous discussion, it was mentioned that the number of cases actually reported and what was the message then. I think the message here should be clear and that's that such a thing can't happen. This proposal introduces more effective supervision and control of the use of pension rights, pension insurance. And so we need to welcome him anyway because we need control and surveillance. Especially since pension rights are long-term rights. I think we all agree here on the need to introduce order. Otherwise, as regards the sustainability of the intergenerational system itself, intergenerational solidarity or... the system he truth when introduced in Germany there were completely different circumstances within society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today we can say that the problems that gnaw at this system are demographic problems because each generation would have to be greater than the previous generation, numerically, of course, economic growth and the number of employees must be such that it covers this system constantly. And there must be a small difference between the working age of the population and life expectancy. ... The change of any of these conditions rockes this system and Croatia is no exception, many European Union members, many European countries have the same or similar problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia, the average life span is about 80 years for women and 73 for men and is on average going to retirement at 60 years of age. What the minister stressed here is particularly important that only 12% of the pensioners went into retirement at 65 years of age and 40 years of employment, so with all the conditions achieved. In the last year there were expenditures in the pension system, and this was mentioned here in the 35.7 billion kuna, and on the basis of the contribution, 19.3 billion kuna was paid, and this difference of course needs to be settled. The share of the population over 65 has been steadily increasing since '91. with 13% share and 18% share in 2011. Total number of pensioners of a million and slightly more than 200 thousand people, preferential pensions of about 166,000, disability pensions of 328 thousand pensioners or 27%. The average amount of these preferential pensions is about 4000 kuna, while if we call it ordinary pensioners have 1700 kuna less pensions. They are, privileged pensions are on average over 80% higher than ordinary pensions. And at the annual level, their amount is about 8 billion kuna. That's what we have to say if we were to completely stop the payment of preferential pensions, we'd still stay... Nine billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what's important in this system is that the relationship between the working population and the pensioners should be, workers and pensioners 2.1:1 today, this relationship is 1.18:1. What the European Union countries are trying to do and I see the minister has in this direction and efforts to seek optimal solutions. One of the possible solutions is, of course, the most frequently used increases in the retirement age, the extension of the mandatory working life, the suspension of early retirement or the award of later or delayed retirement and the retirement of the former. All of the above points to the need to take measures to change things for the better. In this respect, and this proposal for a law supplementing the Pension Insurance Act is welcome and should be supported in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54307	And Hrvoje Neklic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54308	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So in my debate, I would refer to two particular concerns, so that's 12% of full-retireers, so pensioners 40 years and over, and another particular concern is the employment ratio relative to the number of pensioners. So it's unfortunately at the moment 1:1.19. That's two information that needs to be pointed out specifically for me in this debate. As far as this ratio is concerned, 1:1.19 is, in fact, the one that concerns the government the most is to do everything in its power to increase this ratio in favour of the number of employees. Of course, it's not easy, but I'm sure the government will find a way to solve this problem through measures to encourage employment. The basis of this is to prevent fraud and prevent fraud against damage to the state budget and to prevent further fraud of this system in order to make it as simple as possible and as easy as possible to operate in terms of less budgetary expenditure and to sanction such illegally acquired pensions as possible. Also, the big problem is the false documentation that was rarely obtained thanks to the alleged gifts that individuals gave, and individuals in the system received for their own benefit, resulting in great damage to the state budget and a large number of rights acquired in an inappropriate way. What is particularly worrying is the data of a large number of bodily damages in the system itself. That is exactly how this system has worked so far, and I particularly welcome the minister's intention to investigate the benefits, take away, and what I am particularly pleased that the minister himself said that the cleaning was moving from his own house. It's a piece of information that's especially looking forward to it. Furthermore, better and better quality collaboration with HZZO is necessary and certainly commendable because authorised doctors, so the doctors of medicine that are here today we could hear how they are called, how they are blamed, I would say that these are meaning in every crop there are dolls and so on in this profession. So these doctors, authorized doctors working in the HZZO system, have a lot of experience that they've gained through their work. I'm sure they'll do the job they're entrusted with as well as they can. Sadly, what is important to say and to point out that these people therefore often encounter situations where they are at risk of their own safety, all for reasons why they try to do their job knowingly and quality. So why is there such a very simple explanation, and this is the knowledge of persons who in an inappropriate way want to achieve certain benefits using a pattern that they have taken from their environment, that with some money a little unfortunately so far they have been able, along with the haired documents, to relatively easily come to the desired benefit and through this benefit to damage the state budget. Go on. The system has so far been in such a state that, without much difficulty, it was unfortunately possible to pay pensions to the deceased without anyone having suffered the consequences, and the damage done to the system is almost immeasurable. It is particularly important to point out that pension rights are long-term rights and what concerns is the fact that illegally acquired rights is a long-term burden on the system, and it is certainly a fact that everything that needs to be done to ensure that rights are acquired in this way and I am sure that all present colleagues and colleagues will agree with this finding. So, of course, no one here in this whole debate has, at least today I haven't heard, questioned all the disability pensions that are justified and that have a lot. What was put into question here is that those pensions are disabled who are unwarranted, but the fact is that there are a large number of such pensions and actually that's one of the big problems. And that is why it is necessary to do everything possible to put an end to those who have thus come to their pensions. Let me conclude in the end that this law will allow for more effective supervision and control of the use of pension insurance rights, which will certainly have a more efficient, more quality system, and for this very reason I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54309	Thank you very much. And the closing word of Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54310	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So in today's debate, at one point, it was kind of directed that this regulation was adopted for some political reasons, the internal reasons why I firmly reject because if the political reason is to save 122 million then I say that, that's the political reason. If it is a saving that we have at the same time suspended 25 disability pensions obtained in an illegal way, that this is politically motivated. If a million kunas were saved that we were supposed to pay for these 25 pensions this year, that was politically motivated. If we have prevented these pensions from paying $11 million in next decade, it is politically motivated. And what's the only motive of this regulation and this law is to prevent illegal pensioning and bank robbery. So when we talk about this, we should first look at this side to prevent a robbery that has obviously been a way of working in this country for years, especially when it comes to state-owned enterprises and the budget of the Republic of Croatia. As for the regressive demands, we were looking for 16 million and 900 last year. So we've significantly reduced the claims. That's the answer to Agent Grubisic who doesn't listen to me. If you want to hear the answer, here. So when we talk about the regressive payments, then the non-refundable payments at this point are requested by the Pension Insurance Office 116 million kuna. What we managed last year was that only 16.9 million non-refundable payments while 2011 was 31.8 million. So we cut by half and with these changes that we are now going to believe that in 2013 it will be even less. When we talk about revising disability pensions, the Rubal system and the like will no longer live in this pension system, and we've come here with a commission that combs everything, I have to admit that it's extremely difficult and hard because there's a lot of it, all those cases where Dr. Rubala was in the second-degree commission of a person who was either a member or a president of a commission where a first-degree solution was changed to a second-degree solution. So that's step one. Also, as far as the applications we have now are concerned, the Retirement Insurance Office has been blocked with citizens' reports that someone is receiving an illegal disability pension. Any case we can solve now, any case is now being prosecuted. And what we're going to come up with is clear that it's not going to be spectacular data and none of us expect it, nor do I expect with this law that now we're going to spectacularly solve things, but we're going to make it impossible for people with fake papers to enter into the system, people who pay for it. So, for the future, we will clear the system of all of this, but we will also clean up in the system all those who are at this moment for whom we get knowledge in one way or another, so whether by official duty, whether on the basis of the application, whether by the basis of the knowledge of some other bodies, that, with this regulation, by amending the Pension Insurance Act, we will be able to do so very effectively. And on the other hand, it's effective to demand non-refundable payments. So when we talk about the institution's mistakes, so it pays off someone who didn't have to be paid off, it's going to be practically reduced to a minimum, but we're going to increase this part that's going to be tied up to paying off non-refundable pensions for those pensions that we find to have been obtained in a false way. The system itself is currently burdened with problems. Just to mention, you will receive a report from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. There's a visual of our system. What is also the fact that we saved 150 million kunas in 2012 in the system. So, that we want to make the system cheap, so the system doesn't spend what we're out of, and that's where we're going. As for the rationalisation of the system itself, the rationalization of payments, the reduction of the number of employees. So in that direction, we're going to take a further step because our goal is to make the system efficient but for as little resources as possible. In order to be effective in the system, we are also predicting some news. One of these news is this part that is related to mandatory examinations after three years of natural nature that if someone has an amputated arm, a leg, someone who has some syndrome, Down syndrome or something else that we won't invite him because it's something that's quite clear there's no need to do a review. But there are a lot of other cases we're pretty sure should be doing a review. And clearly not all will be invited automatically, but there will be a difference, therefore given the diagnosis, given that, for which someone has gone into invalid retirement. And that system will also be elaborated so that we don't harass people that we know we don't need to do audits, because some things can't, unfortunately, go back or correct some diagnosis that's hereditary or diagnosis that is resulting from disease. So we know there's no going back. However, when we talk about work-related damages, we need to do a review here and we need to keep waiting because it is the system in the world. So all pension systems do that. So it's not any of our news. But again, I note that this does not mean that we will invite everyone automatically, but also in this system there will be a degree so that I hope that you have not gotten the wrong impression that we are going to now, a colleague Grubisic was saying he had to write three times the find of the art, that is, the find of this. And that part will be removed as well. So once that's determined, there's no need to put things back. I hope that with this, too, everything that we are now predicting and with new amendments to the law, only to mention that these amendments to the law will be incorporated into the new Pension Insurance Act and that in the public debate everyone has supported these amendments and that there have been no objections, so that I hope that the clubs will also support this law with the aim of making Croatia a country and that Croatia is really the country in which the right to really get it in a very short time, and that those who do not have the right to do so can't get it no matter how they try it. And I hope that in the vote everyone will stand behind this law because if we don't stand by this law then we admit that in Croatia we should work in the way Dr. Rubala and all those who were fake disabled. I hope that all clubs will support this law, and so will HDZ, because if we don't support it, we'll put ourselves on one side where I believe we shouldn't be, we wouldn't want to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54311	Thank you. Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54312	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'm pleased to hear that those with damages that are completely clear, final, permanent, that there is no need to call for checks. That's good. You've mentioned your colleague Rubal at least three times again, but I have to say that when it comes to such a comet of fake disability, you know what the documentation for looking for disability is? One is a war route, and the other is a medical examination. So the elements for the possibilities of manipulation are in both places both in a false war route and in a false medical file. You didn't talk about this first one at all, and there were cases or honest times when I was a surgeon where a man fell off a motorcycle, he was at war but he fell off a motorcycle 20 years ago, before the war 20 years ago, so he's asking for that knee injury to be recorded as something that happened during the war. So we here focused exclusively on medical examinations, on doctors as major criminals in all of this. And this first part you don't mention at all, nobody's mentioned it here today and there's that, a false war route. There are other and different examples. So, a man who's really wounded and I've operated at the infirmary in some kind of subscruit where the Slavonski Brod War Hospital has been moved can't find any documentation because the war-weather documents have been lost. He can't find the original documents from that time. He lost hiss, and the duplicate that was in the hospital doesn't have it. So that man cannot accomplish what he belongs to. So there are different examples. And it's something to look at and be objective about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54313	Replication response, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54314	So very briefly, the order should be and we'll do the order.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54315	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow. I'm setting a break by 3:00. It's a 13,28 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54316	Final draft law supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 486. The debate on the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 93 votes to pass the law supplementing the Pension Insurance Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54317	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We will now discuss: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights during Unemployment, First Reading, P.Z. No. 487 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, the Honorable Professor Dr. Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54318	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear fellow MPs and fellow MPs. You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment. So these amendments and additions to the law suggest that in the same way as workers in the employment relationship, insurance for the case of unemployment and persons who carry out their own activities is one of the biggest news of this law because we want to keep that promise that everyone in Croatia who works, who allocates funds, who can allocate funds for compensation during unemployment to make that compensation and make it happen. Persons carrying out the independent activity of these amendments to the law will be allowed to obtain the right to cash compensation during unemployment provided that the termination of that activity has taken place for justified reasons. And therefore, the proposed amendments and the amendments to the law are taxed on the reasons set out above, so that I expect us to touch that part in this debate too, and the better we solve that part, especially in the part where we talk about the reasons for the closure of the crafts. The duration of the payment entitlement will be determined depending on the total time spent in the unemployment insurance system and the amount of the fee based on the base for payment of compulsory insurance contributions, so in the same way as for all other unemployed persons. Therefore, persons carrying out their own activities will become taxpayers of the payment of employment contributions, which will also require changes in the Law on Contributions, which the proposal will come to the Assembly very soon. This is one of the biggest newspapers, so we keep the promise that both craftsmen and fishermen and all those who have crafts and crafts, who are owners of crafts, and in many cases they themselves work not only will have the opportunity to be owners of craftsmen, will have the opportunity to close crafts for legitimate reasons to have the right to compensation during unemployment which will be achieved through the Croatian Employment Service. We also align this law with the Law on maternity and parental support, the Labour Act and the Employment Encouragement Act. When we talk about the Law on maternity and parental support, the applicable law stipulates that the basics for determining the amount of cash compensation do not include compensations paid under specific rules. How the Law on maternity and parental support enables the exercise of the right to financial support, including salary compensation, cash compensation, cash aid and one-time cash support for the newborn child, proposed changes and additions, it is necessary to establish that, in the basis for the determination of the amount of the cash compensation, all of the abovementioned financial support does not enter. In relation to the Labour Act and the Employment Encouragement Act, which the Institute of Professional Training for work without the establishment of a working relationship is governed under different conditions, these amendments and additions to the Law should show both the possibilities set out in those regulations. In the light of the law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act, which allows temporary employment agencies to carry out, under certain conditions, the activities relating to the employment of proposed amendments and additions to this law will also be horizontally coordinated and so on. Employment intervention agencies shall be able to carry out the activity of the remuneration of employees to work and to round up the entire employment-related business process. By amending this law, the Agency will also be able to carry out the employment consultation activities. Also in the amendments to the Labour Act, it is prescribed that in the event of collective care of extra workers, the working relationship may cease by agreement between the employer and the worker on the employer's proposal. In the meaning of that provision of the general Regulation, it is necessary to carry out an appropriate complement to the provision of Article 39(2). The law provides for an exception under which an unemployed person will be entitled to a cash compensation in the event of termination of a working relationship with an agreement due to collectively taking care of excess workers. By amending this law, we define more precisely the notion of an unemployed person. Therefore, these amendments regulate that an unemployed person cannot be considered a person who is a member of the cooperative. According to the applicable law, it is prescribed that an unemployed person cannot be considered as having a registered company and another legal person or having more than 25% share in a company or other legal person. Also, an unemployed person cannot be considered to be a person who is insured on extended pension insurance on the basis of a fixed time working contract for permanent seasonal affairs as well as a person who has established temporary unemployment by the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation. As a person, the permanent season is necessarily secured on extended pension insurance and the payer is an employer such person cannot be considered unemployed because it is covered by a second-base insurance system but remains in the job-seeking system. So in this system, they will be able to continue their search for a change of business if they do not want to be in permanent season status. Furthermore, for the purpose of horizontal alignment with the new Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which will enter into force 1. 1. In 2014 it is necessary to define in a more precise way the concept of an unemployed person. The new Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities provides for the reference of persons who are temporarily unemployable in social inclusion programmes. In the process of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, if an unemployed person is found to be temporarily unemployed, this implies inclusion in the maintenance and training programmes of working and working social skills and skills, and such a person cannot be considered unemployed because he does not meet the conditions for being available for work. We would also like to reroute these amendments to the law to the labour market, the focus of the work of the Institute in preparation for employment from form to content in such a way as to provide quality, individual services to employers and unemployed. What we've announced is that we want the Bureau to move away from that bureaucratic structure, that the Institute be better equipped and that the Institute be the place where those who seek work and those who offer work meet. So on one counselor, there should be 600 and less unemployed. We also pointed to the changes that we want in the Croatian Employment Service's very system that the part that is related to the bureaucratic way of doing the job is being moved. One of these is that of 1. 1. 2014 will be suspended by the mandatory monthly reporting to the employment office because it is one measure that is not effective because it does not mean anything, so you just confirm that you are still unemployed and you have to go to the employment office every month and even wait in line for someone to slap that staff that you are an unemployed person. So, we end this and we think that at this point in time and development and relations, but also information and everything that the Institute needs to pursue is something that should be abolished. But we will insist on individual counseling that an unemployed person and her counselor meet as much as possible. That the more work is being done to raise competences, skills, to focus more unemployed people towards job-seeking, to measures of active employment policy. There comes a guarantee for young people. What Europe is moving to 1. 1. In 2014, we already launched 1. Seven this year. And I must say that we have been commended by the European Union since we are one of the first countries to start building measures that are related to the Youth Guarantee. The Youth Guarantee for Europe begins 1. 1. In 2014, over 8 billion euros were secured by 2020. Since we are a country with a large number of unemployed young people, we will be a candidate for these measures. I must say that in these six months now, we have achieved what we intend to accomplish in the European Union. So 60m euros will be withdrawn to Croatia. Part of it will be used for active employment policy measures, part of it is related to social policy and part of it is related to education. The active employment policy measures, together with the Youth Guarantee, should be measures that, at a time when there is no job, when jobs are not created to allow unemployed persons to get into the labour market, find jobs and get jobs there. There's a lot of talk about a guarantee for young people. At present, Europe is more about guarantee for young people than about any other aspect of the European Union. And we believe that in this area we can give significant steps and that we can not only get the funds but we can spark measures that will be adopted in other European Union countries as well. The European Union does not, in its Youth Guarantee, make the best of it. Therefore, it is necessary to have programs that will be programs that will clearly allow young people to get a job. Each European Union country is tasked with sparking its measures through a guarantee for young people. Therefore, the European Commission will not impose on itself at Commission level what measures we will implement in Croatia, what measures will be implemented by colleagues in Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, but we ourselves will have to spark these measures. And we just did. From 1. 1st these measures have been adopted. And a Youth Guarantee Council has been established, headed by a representative of the youth network of Croatia and is therefore a representative of the social partners. The aim of this advice is that together with us at the Ministry, together with colleagues at the Employment Service, follow the implementation of measures within the Youth Guarantee and to consider and propose new measures because it is a living tissue that must correspond with the wishes of young people and with the opportunities of the labour market. Just to illustrate the difference between Croatia and some other countries that also have great youth unemployment. Unlike some European Union countries where a large number of young people don't graduate from secondary education, we don't have that problem after primary school. In Europe, this problem is very pronounced, somewhere around 15% of young people leave the school system without finishing schooling with some of the professions. In Croatia, it is less than 3% and we are one of the best countries of the European Union. Therefore, we do not need measures for that part. However, unlike other countries, we have a large number of unemployed high-school, unemployed in secondary education, and we also have a large number of primary school unemployed who say that we have a very unfavourable structure of young people in terms of employment opportunities and labour markets and in this area it is important that we make changes and steps. Therefore, our intensity and focus are also on designing measures for the Youth Guarantee through these parameters, which means that for those interests we know that we will not be able to provide a young person with an interest, i.e. employment in Croatia in due course to keep them busy and suitable for their education so that they can be hired as soon as possible. We are also going into self-employment, which means that we want to allow young people to go into the market alone with their ideas, and I have to admit that there is a huge success in measures, we have a lot of young people who are going on their own adventure with their own company, that they have hired and after that they have hired one or two people. We saw this now at the last job fair here in Zagreb where there were about 20 companies that went through self-employment and most of it was I own it, but here is the person I hired and got back from the Employment Service because I hired that person. We're proud of the work we're doing without starting a working relationship, no matter what calls we've got. It is clear to us that the funds provided for this measure are not large, when we talk about individual amounts, however, I must point out that what is set out by the state is not only 1600 kuna but it is a detachment for transportation, an exemption for contributions to health and pension insurance so that every person in the system of work without a working relationship, which is popularly referred to as 1600 kuna, costs about 2800 kuna, which is somewhere near gross minimum wage. We aim to make these funds bigger, but here we are between the gaps. Or we will increase these funds and reduce the number of young people who can run for the measure because the funds are not unlimited or allow as many young people as possible to enter this measure, and then the funds have a smaller fee. At this point, we have decided on this second principle and in Croatia 15000 young people are in Croatia today to work without having a relationship, so they gain that year's work experience. The reach of the measure is good, the extent of the measure will continue to follow. According to the first analyses of 4500 young people who completed this measure thus gained that year's work experience, 60% of them were employed within 6 months or a year. Without that year, so without this work, without starting a working relationship they would not have any chance of getting a job because employers do not open traineeships, they cannot get that year's work experience, and all the competitions or most of the competitions are going to look for a person with at least one year's work experience. We also envisaged the measures of active youth policy and guarantees and new measures in a way that for all young people presently in the real sector and to the extent that work is without a working relationship, if this employer in the real sector, therefore not in the public employment, they will be subsidized by their salaries of 50% over a year, all with the goal of getting as many young people employed as possible. We also enable self-employment, so to enable people to get funds to start their own company, and the Employment Service is one silent partner that allows them to go through all these problems related to the very process of opening up the company, the very process of accounting, legal affairs and there we see major shifts and finally the Employment Service becomes what it should be, and that is where it is not only to report that you are unemployed but also the place where you can find a job, but also the place that allows you to keep that job and keep it when you start it when you talk about your own initiative. It is clear that the number of unemployed in Croatia is extremely large, that something that is a picture of Croatia, so the images of our economy, that the number of unemployed will continue to grow because the time of tourism is over, so the season is over, the seasons are returning to the Employment Service. However, what we aim at is that, for the time being, as we are at the Employment Service, we are also training ourselves for new occupations, new labour market challenges so that in this area, the Employment Office will make even greater steps than they have ever been. We introduced a constant seasonal measure in agreement with employers and trade unions from tourism. We want people who work in tourism for a long time, who carry the quality of tourism to keep them in companies. So, not to return to the Employment Service, but to continue to receive compensation. So to stay employed by companies and that's well accepted. What is quite certain is that next year we will have an even greater number of permanent seasons and here, although the measure has only started this year, I hope that it will spread to agriculture because it is the same branch to which it can be applied. We already have an interest in some companies to apply this institute. To break another delusion or another premise that says that, since competitions are being opened for work without establishing a working relationship, there are too few competitions for another form of working relationship. We've done that analysis. All 12% of all competitions discussed at the Employment Office are competitions for work without starting a work relationship which says there is no replacement of employment relations with each other and that the measure is the way it has to be at the moment when there is no job opening. Once we start opening up the traineeships, the measure will be put out because there will be no need for it anymore. However, without this measure, we in Croatia could not give people who can't find a job to get that year's work experience. And finally, I hope that these amendments to the law will be supported by all clubs, because we all know and we are all aware that the problem of unemployment in Croatia is extremely large and that the only real measure that reduces the number of unemployed and increases the number of employees in Croatia is a measure that goes towards opening jobs. Therefore, active employment policy measures do not create jobs, but create job creation and stimulate employers that those who have a chance to hire a person so that they can then employ active policy measures, so help the state. Soon before you will find the Job Conservation Support Act, so the law that goes to preserve jobs in those companies where there is a disturbance in production due to the decline in demand, but which have a chance to survive and to recover production after a while. It's that Unworked Friday Act that's infamously failed because it was practically inconclusive. We will propose a new law that will be much simpler for employers. We extend the deadline to 12 months, so that they can use support for 12 months all with the goal of keeping people in jobs, not returning them to the Employment Service. I note that the increase in employment and then the decline in unemployment will be seen at the time when gross domestic product exceeds 2% and when investments start in Croatia. So all that we do in the government and all those laws that are now coming and this law yesterday that was about strategic investments and these other laws that will arrive this month and next are going to create a business climate that will allow jobs to be opened and young people to be hired. I hope this law is supported by all clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54319	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ club, the respected Branko Juričev Martinchev will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54320	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers and assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So for this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights during the unemployment of the Croatian Democratic Community club will remain abstention. The time in which we live when we have an unemployed over 340,000, when every day more and more companies go bankrupt and when the number of unemployed is growing up is certain to require us all to approach this law with special care and attention, as well as to all our citizens who are unemployed and of course to support every shift in this figure. Today we were probably shocked by all the media news and the title "Croatia is falling apart under the SDP, 10,000 people have lost their jobs in the last 10 days". Therefore, the promotion of self-employment and the creation of at least one job is of great importance, so we support the amendments and additions to this law, which suggests that, in the same way as for workers in the employment relationship, rights and the unemployed who remain and who have so far carried out their own activity. This means providing all the braves who choose to go into the entrepreneurial waters with insurance against that risk. Last week we had a half-year report, so we saw that the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, although it provides for the means to subsidise companies, agriculture and crafts in the first six months, did not spend 5% of the funds as well as for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts. We can expect an even greater number of craftsmen and all those who carry out their own activities are found at the Employment Office. Only in the first six months has the number of craft owners decreased by a thousand. In December 2012, we had 85,000 owners of crafts, and in June of this year, 84. However, persons carrying out their own activities will also become payment bonds for employment contributions requiring amendments and additions and the Law on Contributions. It is good that this law provides for the right to compensation of an unemployed person who has unanimously terminated employment due to collectively providing for extra workers. It is also good that it will no longer be mandatory to report every month. However, what we do not think should be changed is that the rights of employees are abolished by all those who are members of cooperatives as well as those who have registered companies. These laws do not consider persons who are members of the cooperative to be unemployed regardless of their role. Furthermore, the minister spoke a lot about people who are based, i.e. through a training programme, do not start a working relationship. Since there are more and more of these young people, there is a need to consider how to increase the amount of this financial aid. I wouldn't agree with the minister if he said that that amount is equal to gross minimum wage. Our gross salary is 2,800, we get a net on the hands of 2,300. So I don't see the math as now from 2,800 we're up to 1600. But, well, that's economic. ... The transport goes to those in a working relationship as well. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's always a plus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54321	We can't do this, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54322	Okay. For every young man, 1600 kuna is not the amount to be considered a family, a child creation, or a life together with a partner. And that's exactly the age when they and we as a community expect it from them. Let us not be surprised then by the news, the information that in 2012 in the Republic of Croatia 10 thousand people died more than they were born. Then let's not wonder what's wrong with our Natalie. All programmes that encourage employment and reduce the number of unemployed are commendable. However, there is a wide range of these programmes and even the patterns are the support received by the employer. This way significantly complicates the process, gives a lot of work to employers and also to those who approve programs, and yet many categories are bypassed as if each unemployed person is not equally unemployed, and therefore each of them who wants to work should get help under the same conditions, and I must say as soon as possible and not as a boredom when they wait several months for the approval of the programme even though the person is willing to work for only 1,600. For example, available programs have been forgotten by all those who are slightly older than 25 or 29 years, except that the employer chooses younger and the state tells them these programs that they are already a little old for some kind of help. The new programmes that enable young people to work on training can remain with the employer for another 12 months, with a full salary of paying 50% for small and large employers, and has bypassed and thus damaged all those employed in local self-government units. These are all problems that need to be solved as soon as possible because employers are not as damaged as those unemployed who are unfortunately getting more and more hurt. What is also restrictive and unnecessary is the setting of a deadline for the extension of the right to cash compensation from 30 days from the date of expiry of the established rights. And what if you miss that deadline? Isn't that jobless anymore and doesn't that guy need our help anymore? Of course, for these rights as well as those previously ordered, they need certain means. And as usual, they are the only persons who carry out their own activities and who will benefit from these new rights that would be better off never taking advantage of new obligations. Of these 1.7% of the employment contributions are expected to receive a budget of HRK 106 million. According to this projection in the 2015 Budget, another 119 million kuna should be provided. Given the deficit and the state of the budget, it is difficult to predict whether it will be possible to provide these funds for this new purpose when Minister Linic warns again today and says savings should be done at every turn. What is more surprising is that these proposed amendments contain as much as 54 articles and the basic law has 79. The Croatian Parliament passed the basic law in July 2008, after which we had four amendments, 2009, 2010, two in 2012, so the question arises why is it not going to the new law? The fact is that today we have a dramatic situation in the Croatian labour market and this fact is not the result of work, i.e. the failure of the Employment Service, these are the consequences of poor economic and economic policy. It systematically chokes especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, thus making business and competitiveness conditions worse. I think it would be very good once again before the adoption of this law in the second reading to analyse all the measures of active employment policy, to ask for the opinion of the Employment Service on the ground, the people who have experience in calling the programmes and implementing the law, and then certainly would have had better results than we have today. In the second quarter of this year, we had an unemployment rate of 16.5% and now it's over 19%. And finally, the HDZ Club, if it works out in quality, is ready to support it for all those small entrepreneurs who, because of the increasingly difficult situation in our country, are forced to close the crafts and will be found at the Employment Office, on behalf of all those unfortunate people who have had to interrupt or will have to break their working relationship because they have become excess in the collective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54323	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club, dear colleagues, Damir Cain, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54324	Honorable Vice President, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm surprised there's no replica. Yeah, what's the point of this law? In particular, this law regulates employment mediation, professional guidance, education, training to increase labour employability, unemployment insurance, active employment policy and other activities in order to promote the spatial and professional mobility of the workforce. What could possibly be the point of the law in some way? that, in the event of unemployment, all workers in a working relationship and in accordance with specific rules of the equal person as well as persons carrying out their own activity are necessarily insured under the pension insurance rules. So the emphasis is on insurance. In this legal text, I am literally quoted on page 2 as saying "that the applicable law requires that for unemployment all workers in employment are necessarily insured", and on page 4, "that, compared to more precise definition of the concept of an unemployed person, these amendments and additions to the law are regulated that unemployed persons cannot be considered as persons who are members of the cooperative. According to the applicable law, it is prescribed that an unemployed person cannot be considered even a person who has a registered company or another rightful person or has more than 25% share in a company or other legal person." But what do I want to say right here in this place? I would even dare say that today, in a far more difficult situation, the owners of these small companies but even the workers who work with them might have to understand that in some ways. First, we may need to reduce a certain number of taxes to these small companies, as Orban did in Hungary, to the side of his political worldview, all with the aim of keeping these entities in business life. In Hungary, Orban reduced its expenditure by 50%. And what happened? Hungary has suddenly started and hired and returned those lost companies that had previously lost economic activity. If we don't, maybe we too will be in bigger trouble than we are now. You just have to let people work. It's no problem that if those who work have, if they pay clear taxes, it's not a problem if they "rich" if they expand their business, we can't just say them to the people, simply more small companies or these small owners don't. Everything they had was pulled out of the reserve for some dark days. We can all also agree that today, in this country, it is best to work either in local self - administration or in a state company or in public services. It's just enough to mention one thing, in my county, that own revenue from the budget of 238 million kuna 53 million kuna, and for employee costs goes 51 million kuna, almost 100%. If that's the case in Istria, it's like hell everywhere else. For material costs parallel to that amount, another 82 million kuna is allocated. So almost 100% of my own income, I'm talking about my own income going to pay. On the other hand, what are you doing in that local self-government from there on out? I don't know, but let's just let someone else evaluate it. What can't be is that local self-government for the same job as a state-owned company has a salary of 20 or 30% higher. On the side of the 7th law, among other things, there is an assessment and sources of resources needed to implement the law. This is how it is said, among other things, that within the framework of the material legal protection of unemployed persons at the position of the Croatian Employment Service in the projection of the 2014 budget, funds amounting to one billion kuna, for 2015 billion and 300 million kuna are provided. So it counts on economic growth, it counts on a significantly smaller number of unemployed than it is this year or next year. But among other things, it is stated that, according to HZMO's 2012 data, 12 thousand outs were made from the base of craft insurance, with the insurance of farmers 29 and the basic insurance of the professional activity of 17 thousand 366 outs. On a daily basis, this may well be said not only to me but probably to all people who can't get to work just because they're not the same political options as those who run individual systems. But with a normal insult to man, the point is that we've lost 150 thousand production jobs to the crisis here. On the other hand, under quotes, we've hired about 30,000 people from the crisis here. This morning we were saying that we have a million 350 thousand insurance companies and on the other hand, public services are working somewhere around 350 thousand people. And I have the impression that this is exactly what more states or taxpayers can't handle. This morning, we were saying that 36 billion kunas stand out for pensions. From the state budget of cca. 17 billion kunas, health care 21 billion kunas from the state budget if I'm not mistaken, 7 or 8 billion kunas for salaries only in the state, it doesn't matter if it's about MPs, ministers, the president of the state, the military, the promotions, the police, the health care, the ambassadors, the consuls, the customs office somewhere around 22 billion kuna, it means nearly 50 billion kuna. On the other hand, only 556 units of local and regional self-government at year-on-year are allocated to salaries. Seven billion kuna. And how do I get to that amount? If the number of employees in the county of Istria 1000 in the local self-government plus 1800 of them users of the budget means 2800 and for the wages goes I told 53 million kuna, or if all budgets in the county of Istria billion kuna, its own income 750 million kuna, are going to pay 300 million kuna. So 300 million kuna times 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb and we get to the figures from 6 to 7 billion kuna. Just for wages. It's no problem to calculate it. It's just that we have to make an effort to move towards the items of the State Audit Office. Normally, we're not going to analyze all these units, and I've been through what I'm interested in, the County of Istria, and I assure you that I'm talking about credible amounts. All of it needs to be rationalized, all of it needs to be reformed. It doesn't matter if it's the government, it doesn't matter if it's local self-government. And probably when we talk about it, Minister Linic is not far from the truth. There's still reservations there. On the other hand, you say pensions simply don't touch. What the minister also spoke of about these thousand 600 kunas Colloquially is what we can call it for this traineeship, that must be a good measure. It's not the point, we'll all agree here that it's only being employed in the public sector, it would be ideal for people to be employed with these measures that will follow the state budget in the private sector, but for a while it won't be that way. Only employment is actually a point and what is equally commendable is expressed on this side which, on the 17th where the right to cash compensation is spoken, an unemployed person who has ceased to carry out an independent activity without the allegations of "justified reasons" but then says, there is no compensation, the justified reasons set out in paragraph 1 of this article are considered insolventness. So then it's said to close the bankruptcy process, deal with loss, loss of business space, loss of privileges, i.e. permission to carry out activities, and then the disease of the person secured in case of unemployment, loss of a business partner, serious damage to the property of the person secured in case of unemployment, some natural disaster, etc., etc. Absolutely this should be welcomed as well as all of us who come in some way from these coastal counties see a large exit to meet "permanent seasons" in Article 55a, which literally says that a person insured on extended pension insurance on the basis of a fixed time contract for permanent seasonal affairs within the meaning of this law is a person who spent at least 6 months working with the same employer in continuity and who will work at least three seasons with that employer or who has previously worked on about.k.a. three seasons whether or not she had the status of a person secured on extended pension insurance on the basis of a work contract for a specified time for permanent seasonal affairs. I also agree with what my predecessor may have said before that it would be useful to discuss one whole law for a whole series of interventions in which it is difficult to cope. But well, the law will probably come out in one purified form. But the problem when we talk about the number of unemployment is not actually from today, but it has been going on since at least 2008 when the crisis has somehow come to these places so that we don't go into reasons now and who has produced the same thing among other things. Among other things, however, the Law on Support, which was spoken of by the minister and with the aim of preserving jobs. This certainly is not the solution only on a non-work Friday but should be launched in the final investment and employers free from the fear of investment. There is money in our banks, it seems that deposits are double the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And they need to rob people to invest, to have and to do honest work and to get rich. It is not a problem in a regulated country if people clearly pay contributions, taxes and hire workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54325	You called on the replicas, so you got them. Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54326	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain, speaking of wages, you said it was best to work in local self-government. I don't know how many years you've been... Or state, anyway.../Speaker off./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54327	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54328	And I have just the opposite experience, so to share wages and do something in local self-government, it takes a lot of effort because you're not going to get that money from the state register, but you have to do your best to produce it yourself, to create it. You, as usual, generalize, and it's just as interesting when you were in the IDS then you didn't talk about spending so much money on salaries within the Istrian County.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54329	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54330	I was in two terms president of the Istria County Assembly, I was here in the Assembly, so here I had... So I got paid here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, yes, I assure you, everyone and the workers will assure you, and you also know that today is the safest job in local self-government, municipal systems or in the state administration. Neither you nor I have been asked for a long time by anyone to help me get to work in that and that small firm to do that and that rather than to be employed in some Istrian plumbing or in some utility company down there, in the state administration or something like that. True, since 2001, I haven't followed the inside of the County of Istrian but I'll say, our total budgets are a billion 518 million kuna. Of these billions of 518 million kuna own incomes in the County of Istria, County, municipalities, cities are 750 million kuna, for wages going humiliating I will say 50% of that amount, over 300 million kuna. I mentioned earlier that the county's own income is Istrian where it works about 160, 170 employees plus still around 250, 260 budget users mean business, business costs 51 million kuna, and its own incomes 53 million kuna. On average, local self-government stands between 30 per cent and 50 per cent and 60 per cent. It's become unsustainable. As we need to correct opportunities at national level, the same way we should do it in the local environment. That's what I've always said, and that's how I'm gonna talk in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54331	Thank you very much. Time's up. Another replica, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54332	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, there's no direct TV transmission we can speak more comfortable, even though there's a recording. You said that, you quoted or read or you said that as your opinion, I'm not sure that there will be more employment next year, and more. Maybe that's what it says in the materials, I'm not so sure, but I'd like it to be so, but deep down, I'm sure it won't be like that. Unfortunately, there will be greater unemployment. There are no elements that suggest a reduction in unemployment or an increase in unemployment. I mean, this government didn't take a chance. A year and a half ago, I told Mr. Linic that he needed to change economic policy, and then they laughed at me on this side, and a lot of people laughed at me. That's what I'm saying today. This government was expected to make a radical turn, not a turn-off, but a turn-off, one species to introduce a state of emergency, not with tanks in Ban Jelacic Square, but a government that will be sitting 24 hours a day in terms of the economy, not dealing with all of this and everything in the widest, swimming on the bond for what, for nothing. You didn't do it, you now support the government and two years are spent. There aren't any of these that sell our projects in London today. What are you going to do now, if you're going to sell or design a project today, it's going to take two years while it starts to build, not to produce results. We know something about it, so there's no way out. And today it's... it's never in life... it may be too late for us an individual, but to the people it can never be too late for the state. Today, these measures are to be taken in terms of these 10 billion deficits, to cut down all 10 billion. First thing, in every crisis, cut taxes, not raise taxes. The cost of reducing not in this way but in the way of actual imports of food and goods. There was no such thing... such power or such will.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54333	Thank you very much. The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54334	I want to believe there's a way out. God forbid there's no way out. Well, there's a way out in medicine that may be far more accurate science than what we're discussing today. But employment, I'm not going to quote or paraphrased anyone, we've all talked about it the same way, today it's conditioned in some way economic growth, and in order for that to happen normally on the one hand, people should be allowed to work, people should be allowed to invest, citizens should also be allowed to spend. We have one reserve, but now the question is how to round up citizens to just start investing again as they may have done in that 200-2007 period. Only the domestic savings of our citizens are about a row the size of two budgets of the Republic of Croatia. Now, in order for them to start investing, I agree, they need not be intimidated by real estate taxes or changed tax policy every other day, but they need to create a business entrepreneurship climate and give people a simple opportunity to work and to have. If they feel they will, then they will invest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54335	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. A respected colleague, Ivana Posavec Krivec, will speak for the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54336	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support amendments and additions to the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment. We believe that these amendments to the law introduce a positive newspaper and facilitate the process of intermediating and actively seeking work and eliminate all observed shortcomings, administrative barriers and comply with the applicable regulations. The Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment also established the Croatian Employment Service as a public institution owned by the Republic of Croatia whose task is to address issues related to employment and unemployment in the broadest sense of these concepts. The SDP Club considers it an important insistence of the proposing to reroute the focus of the Institute's work as part of the preparation for employment by content in such a way as to provide quality individual services to employers and unemployed persons. We welcome the amendments to the laws that go towards modernising the Institute of Regular Monthly Reporting to the Institute, which has proved to be a formal way of registering unemployed persons. In practice, we are aware that this is the most frequent and financial burden and thus threatened unemployed persons. The principle that we put content ahead of the form in our opinion is the correct way for the Institute to pursue its vision to be a leading participant in the development of the Croatian labour market mainly in uniting the entire offer and demand of work to achieve full employment. It is these changes that determine the importance of a professional job search plan as well as a series of activities identified by this plan, which can help more successful employment, self-employment or increase the employability of an unemployed person. In simple language, the Employment Service takes an active role, the additional activity of consultants towards unemployed persons, their more direct, individual approach to each unemployed person, but at the same time, unemployed persons are expected to put themselves in a jobseeker situation. The reason for coming to the institute as the minister himself said should become an exclusive jobseeker. Looking at the Croatian labour contingent is defined by a series of factors in age, sex and education. Unfortunately, we still record a significant number of unemployed people at the Institute today. This law proposes real steps towards higher employability, not exclusively towards administrative reductions in the number of unemployed. The role of the Institute is to adapt the active measures to each of the subgroups, but especially because of the need for the labour market in the context of the economic crisis, these amendments and additions should be adapted to the programme of the Institute for the Implementation of Employment Encouraging Measures in a way that includes job conservation programmes and programmes for the acquisition of work experience. A step from unfavourable to a favourable employability structure is needed. And that's what the minister stressed in his opening statement today. The beauty of the measure is constantly opening up to the observed needs, so I think that the measures implemented this year certainly produce results, so it might be good for all of us to become aware that by 17 October this year, active employment policy measures cover almost 46,000 people. This means that the increase of newly involved in 2013 was 35,000 in active employment measures. 10 were active users at the beginning of 2013. Out of 45, nearly 46,000 people received 8 and a half thousand unemployed in support of employment and training. Support for the self-employment of 5,000 unemployed. Education of the unemployed is a measure that has been approached by 1700 unemployed people. The public works have been carried out by nearly 14000 people, while exactly what may be the biggest stumbling block of professional training for work without establishing a working relationship is a convincingly leading measure, a convincing measure that takes first place with more than 16000 users. It is also important that support for the preservation of jobs this year was received by almost 900 people now unemployed. This suggests that the reach of measures is good, that as the minister said from these vocational trainings to work without the establishment of a working relationship 60% of people achieved employment between 6 and 12 months. The experience we carry from talking to young people who have had the opportunity to go through this measure shows that they are satisfied because they have been given the opportunity to enter the labour market, to gain first experience and not actually volunteer for their first stamps in workbooks. Unfortunately, in the number of unemployed, almost one-fifth of all young people up to 24 years of age, it is also important to stress that the EU has accepted the guarantee for young people as a key element of improving the position of young people in the labour market and ensuring their future, and to reduce the growing number of young unemployed. The Croatian Employment Service has started implementing the Youth Guarantee already 1.7. means the day of EU entry and has offered a package of measures for young people "Young and creative" among the first EU members. He added 11 additional measures primarily aimed at young people up to 29 years. The measures aim to raise competences and prepare young people for employment, in particular to strengthen and involve young people in entrepreneurship and the development of civil society organisations as an increasingly significant part of the labour market. The advice that is also mentioned today in the opening debate of the promoters has already been established as we heard in the introduction, it is in line with the needs of the young population and is happy that exactly the programmes for the first jobs of young people and young people will represent and act as representatives of the Croatian Youth Network. The Youth Guarantee officially begins with implementation in the EU on 1 January. This means that there will also be financial resources available for the employment of persons under the age of 25 and additional measures to be implemented will be financed from the European Social Fund and from the state budget. Furthermore, the SDP welcomes the proposing's efforts to provide insurance for persons who carry out their own activity in the same way as workers in a working relationship. In particular, self-employed persons will be able to obtain the right to cash compensation during unemployment provided that the termination of that activity has taken place for justified reasons and the duration of the same right will be determined depending on the total time spent in the unemployment insurance system. These amendments introduce regulatory equality among employees as well as certain security and for persons carrying out independent activity in the event of unemployment. In addition, these amendments and additions to the law will be brought into line with the Law on maternity and maternity aid, which currently allows for the right to receive financial support including salary compensation, cash compensation, cash aid, one-time cash aid for a newborn child. The proposed amendments and additions to the law of the applicant determines that, in the basis for the determination of the amount of cash compensation, not all of those financial support is entered. Quality improvement in the law, we at the SDP Club also consider compliance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, which allows the Agency for Temporary Employment to carry out temporary employment activities in relation to the dealings of consumer concessions under certain conditions and activities in relation to employment. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law are actually horizontal alignment, so so so on and so forth. Employment intervention agencies shall be able to carry out the activity of the remuneration of employees to work, and this will certainly round up the overall business process relating to employment mediation. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act is more specifically defined by an unemployed person. In addition to the fact that it is prescribed by law that an unemployed person cannot be considered as having a registered company or another legal person or having more than 25% share in the SDP company welcomes the clarification of that provision in the section relating to another legal person, and that persons who are members of cooperatives cannot be considered unemployed. Furthermore, unemployed persons cannot be considered as being insured on extended pension insurance on the basis of a fixed-term employment contract as well as a person who has established temporary unemployment by the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation. The SDP club also supports the abolition of an extension of the right to cash compensation which has not achieved the expected purpose effects since its introduction in 2010. Noting that an unemployed person has achieved his right in reality the nature of social giving by virtue of this law, although not in his spirit we support the applicant's insistence to treat them as social contributions under the social care system. We support this amendment because it is also in line with EU guidelines to encourage active measures, not passive measures. Quality legal improvements are also seen as a precise determination of the amount of financial assistance paid to unemployed persons during education and circumstances that can lead to the suspension or termination of the right to financial assistance during education. Or those that may lead to the suspension or termination of the right to cash compensation during vocational training for work without the establishment of a working relationship and which has proved to be an extremely accepted employment measure. We've already said over 16,000 users only this year. A positive shift is also taking place through an amendment to the law which allows us to apply for an extension of the right to cash compensation to meet the conditions for retirement for unemployed persons, primarily here it is about women who have obtained the right to so-called. a permanent cash compensation which has ceased due to the establishment of a working relationship. It is precisely on the trail of the SDP's all-expressed club that supports the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Mediation and Rights Act during the unemployment period around which the high level of serenity has been reached. Through the work of the working group and the participation of representatives of the social partners, representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association as well as representatives of all union centres. At the same time, we are sure that the Proposer will also accept all the good proposals that are coming and will be crystallized through the debate and may contribute to our second opinion that this quality proposal becomes even closer to its goal, which is a mediation that leads to an employment relationship and an increase in the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54337	Thank you. We'll hear two replicas now. First, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54338	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, at one point in your debate, who actually convinced the whole law, which is good, so thoroughly studied, said that this is not a simple administrative reduction in the number of unemployed. That's what you literally said. But later on, in your speech, you speak as it says in the law that cooperatives do not have the right to be on the list of unemployed. Then those who have 25% stakes in any company, regardless of whether they are in losses, insolvent etc. the same cannot be considered to be included in the Employment Service as well as these cooperatives who may make 100 kunas of monthly earnings in the cooperative. So they have no right to be on the unemployment list either. Furthermore, it seems to me that, regardless of two years of government, Kukuriku coalition is the best unemployment solves going abroad. In fact, 10,000 young people from Croatia leave each year to work abroad. The trend has continued, and even more so in these two years, the Vlachs have ruled. Young people who are 1/5 or 20% up to 24 years old and who have a high unemployment rate that is another story, but I don't want this legal proposal to go through like the one praised by the former government that in 2011 reduced unemployment by being a census so that 30 thousand people are employed on the census for about two months, how long the census lasted to ensure that these measures are not measures of that kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54339	The answer to the replica respected Ivana Posavec The guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54340	Well, actually, my colleague, you've noticed very well, it's a completely different policy to propose. It offers that through the Employment Service we create active measures, measures that will not only formally create the unemployed, or the same unemployed, delete from the Institute, but open up a range of measures and opportunities for each unemployed individual in the Republic of Croatia to be found in one of these programmes. Of course, programs that offer employability and cooperatives. If we read the Cooperatives Act, we know very well which cooperative option provides each individual as a member of cooperatives regardless of whether the share of the cooperative's ownership is greater than or less than 25% of the cooperatives gather with one goal, and this goal can ultimately bring economic profits to all of them. And when we talk about how many young people or how many people have gone from the Republic of Croatia in the past year or before, then believe me, they did not leave Croatia for the measures of this government but for the measures of that government that we inherited, and unfortunately these measures were not. And today, a colleague on the other hand mentioned in his replica that it takes two years for certain measures to live up to and deliver results, so you see, I've shown you today the results that we already see in this year from the measures that have gone a little earlier. We'll see what happens in two years, give us some time because the trend is still no matter what we want to accept it or not positive under the given economic circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54341	The second line is Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54342	Thank you very much. My colleague Posavec, when you were talking about young people who are under the professional training program without a working relationship, you said that this would give them the first stamp in the workbook, but it's about professional training without a working relationship, there's no stamp in the book, no work book anymore, exactly. Since it's a training programme, the fee is in the form of a scholarship.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54343	Reply to the replica Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54344	Yes, sometimes we can express ourselves a little bit and figuratively, of course, but entering the labour market for every young person who has completed an education, whether it is a secondary or higher education, is certainly an opportunity to work in the profession, an opportunity to devote a mentor to it. This is exactly what this measure has offered mentorship to introduce a young man and in the first year gives him the opportunity to gain real professional experience and ultimately pass if such profession is a state expert exam. Well, you see, your colleagues and I have come from local self-government, I am particularly pleased that there are almost 15 young people behind me who have gone through this measure that are far more competitive in the labour market today, who have met local self-government and who have upgraded to their education the experience of local self-government. I'm sure they're more competent not to say that those 1600 kunas that they were getting monthly meant a lot to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54345	We're continuing the club debate. The esteemed representative Petar Baranovic will speak on behalf of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the law concerning a very serious topic may be the most serious issue right now in the Republic of Croatia, and this is the question of employment, as I can see, and these unpopular afternoons, however, have quite filled up the Assembly Hall of Assembly, and so far we have been deprived of these discussions that are being held up to the 2nd World War and some relations until today unsettled. The question of employment, a fundamental question of 330, 40, 20,000 people, 300 depending on whether it's season or not, but in any case, a figure that doesn't actually give anyone in Croatian politics to say I'm innocent, I'm innocent, I have no responsibility and I've done everything in my domain brilliantly supreme without error. The number that is the consequence of many mistakes, to discuss whether they were more or less in a certain period of time, and how much such discussions will solve the issue of 300, 30, 40 thousand people who have a basic problem in life, which is how to buy bread tomorrow morning, how to pay for directing and how to raise future generations, and how to lead the most intelligent policy such as counterpart Branka Juričev-Martinchev correctly noticed just forgot to say that responsibility is not two years old and no one has returned to zero, but we started from some grounds that are so quite bad. The first law with this title was adopted in 2008 followed by 4 novels in 4 years which shows that changes occur in this problem and that this is a very dynamic discipline that requires corrections and requires adaptation of the law to circumstances which unfortunately are the same as they are, conditioned by the crisis. And what's in any case to praise is that it's actually a fundamental feature of this content of changes and addition actually trying to make a conservative system and apparatus, the Employment Service, with a conservative and archaic approach that no longer meets the challenges of this time and these problems trying to reform, trying to make a more operational, dynamic, more modern and introducing some new obligations, introduces some new opportunities that, in any case, when you read this law to every healthy person, anyone with a healthy mind says that ideas are good. Whether it will be carried out as operationally as provided for in this law, whether the guidelines given to it will be able to be implemented adequately, quickly and qualitatively, will show time. I will not repeat what the previous speakers have repeated, as Mr. Minister has repeated in the introduction nor will I quote and read articles and articles of the law, but I will refer to a few of the things this law touches, which is that this law corrects a great injustice suffered in the previous years of the modern Croatian state and in the functioning of the present system, in the practice of the current law, the persons who carry out their own activity and Croatian craftsmen. The amazing fact is that we have so far had a law according to which and when and in completely justified cases any Croatian craftsman had to break up with his activity was de facto and de iura remained on the road, completely on the road without any rights. It could stand in the context of certain fundamental constitutional values that all are equal in rights and obligations, but we will not formalise it now. Just as someone who has even represented and led a certain number of craftsmen in his day and often faced this injustice, he has often faced objections that this is possible, and I express satisfaction and gratitude to Mr. Minister and his professional team for recognising this problem and for removing this injustice. Also, I'm pleased that this law finally puts out a practice that was, I have to be maybe a little bit too direct, a little silly and rather humiliating for the unemployed, which is that they report once a month to the Bureau because they're a little tired that many of them have been looking for work for years, we've still put them in a position to tell each month that I'm still alive, I came to you, you know, it's a nice and pleasant day. Nonsens, only one in a series of non-accessible approaches, uninventivity, inability to install in Croatian laws and which this Assembly, and it is very likely to remain business for the next calls, will have to change until one day we clear Croatian laws and bring them to that level that might be considered appropriate. There have been comments on the practice of this popular employment on 1600 kuna, it is very likely one of the best decisions this government has made in its co-operation. As head of a recent unit of local self-government, I have witnessed what it looks like in practice and we are, of course, most others, almost all the local self-government leaders immediately reached out to use this mechanism, and they are very likely to do so because, by some law, logic through elections still comes to those places, people who have something in their head. So when all those people who have something in their head immediately after taking a measure start to apply that measure then it's not for you to expect that now in the context of this debate someone is in favour, someone is against. Whoever believes that this was inappropriate, that it had no meaning and no purpose could have used it, whether it was the chief of HNS, SDP, HDZ, but I did not notice such diversification on the ground. So regardless of party membership, all the mayors, the municipal chiefs and the mayors took advantage of the possibilities in accordance with the needs, in accordance with the financial opportunities, and of the space that these young people can put into this system physically. And what are the experiences? A very good, very large number of young people are, some even immediately after the university graduates get the opportunity to learn about the way an institution or company has been admitted in such a way. Young people were familiar with the practical application of the law, the way certain systems work, and they gained professional culture, and they did not end up in that coffee basket that rises at noon what they would tell me in Dalmatia and then go drink the first coffee. To create an instrument at the time of today's crisis, at the time of today's deficit, and also a deficit that floats and floats for a long time over Croatia, according to which you can get to know the young man at the beginning of the work, which is professional responsibility, which is the need to get up in the morning and do his eight hours, allowing him to still have basic rights from the status of employees and to receive those 1600 kunas that seem to someone, yes, these are small funds, not too much, but it is for the young man still allowance. In my day, we had some practices where no one paid us anything, so we went, studied, and we were satisfied. It is also commendable that through this law, we are finally legally instrumentalising something that is in the West, in the EU countries, but also in the West, in general, which we have always looked at with some respect for is that what is finally being established here is what is called continuous training, professional training, training, raising the level of all unemployed so that at the moment when any chance can be given can be directed to work. When you have a man today who has remained at one level of education, at one level of professional readiness, at one level of technology management and technologies gallop, circumstances change, then it's very difficult for such a man to find a job. As for the observations regarding when we will fix and who will improve the situation in Croatia when it comes to employment. I'm not going into controversy, I could go back to Newton's after force of action and a lot of reaction to this side of the constituency room, but I'll just figure out the next one. The moment we settle the legal system and introduce the criteria into Croatian society, when we are ready to recognise what is avant-garde and what is advanced, and without complexes to condemn what is for judgment, when we know how to read the newspaper, so in the paper we recognize even scarier titles, this morning and yesterday, we will probably, very definitely, reach that level of development of this society, this operationality that will help us to fix the situation in the economy, we will then motivate entrepreneurs and young people to risk becoming entrepreneurs, we will open jobs when the work is on pedestal, and the thief is condemned in every variant of each of its political positions and orientations. Thank you very much. The Croatian People's Party Club will of course support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54347	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54348	Dear Mr. President, my colleague. You said it wasn't an hour, it wasn't a dial. You kind of hooked up to a fellow Posavec who said the eviction was. That, during the previous government, you mentioned these interns. And that's glorified, that's 1600 kn. ... Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I welcome that for 1600 kn, okay. And all the mayors and commissioners act as positive as possible. But it's just saving some things. Take it from you that this government hasn't paid an internship to doctors and its medical staff labs for a year, a year and a half. I don't think that's settled yet, or is it, but I don't think so. They stopped hundreds and thousands of doctors and all the medical staff so they couldn't intern, nor lay professional. So imagine what damage it's done? And now we're saying this as saving something. It didn't save anything, but well under the terms of ok. They should've been given right away so they could volunteer to doctors without a kuna, so if they wanted to, they wouldn't lose their years of life. I'm not bad, but I just want to point out that you can't talk about a thing without somehow seeing what happened. And as for these previous things in the counter when someone was moving out. We need to be realistic. The emigration began 40 years ago when Yugoslavia and the socialist economy moved out of Croatia 500, 600, 700, 800,000 people. If it hadn't been for that to solve the unemployment issue. Well, that's not what my colleague Posavec started with this HDZ government when he was eight years old. And speak unfoundedly. Let's take the data to see how long during Racan's term of office there's been a year of emigration abroad, so how long it was during Sanader's government, then Kosorina's government, and now this government. That way we can talk, not all of us. What I want to say in the end about it. Gentlemen, we should face the situation that workers from other continents, other races will be coming to Croatia soon Now the Croats are in the EU. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] It's normal for us to go work in France. There's nothing wrong with that. We need to worry about how we are going to open jobs here and make it as good in Croatia as possible, not constantly postering as much from Croatia over the border for the past three months. [[Intruder Stazic: Okay, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54349	A colleague of Marasovic, if you wish to discuss something, then sign up for the debate, and do not exceed the time of the replica. The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Marasovic, given that you have dedicated part of your replica to me to my colleague Posavec, and I will only refer to migration. Let's not get all worked up about it. These are things that are conditioned by a series of factors. And if we're going to look at the real truth, we're here and moved here when we moved from the great home to the migration of emigration there in the 6th 7th century. So we're always in migration. It's not good, but it happens and it's one process that's conditioned by a great number of factors. Let us focus on how we will bring this country into order, and not only will fewer of our people and young people leave here, but we will likely have opportunities to choose a quality fit needed deficit from other countries. Let's be honest, let's not be over-preservative about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54351	Another replica, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Baranovic, saying that we must change the laws that I agree with, because the laws must be in the service of citizens and citizens, we must make their lives as simple as possible. You reminded me, and about the discussion of the Employment Service of an event. It seems to me that it was in 2011 when we had to make a decision at the government's meeting to approve 1500 work permits, so for the occupation of the shepherd. It had to be decided by the government and finally I had to sign as Prime Minister. And before we made that decision, we discussed it in the narrow cabinet. I asked the Employment Office to brief me on how many people who were registered at the Employment Office could please and do the shepherd's job. Encouraged by the fact that I had previously been informed by an entrepreneur who had started a sheep farm, it seems to me that some cows were, therefore, asking for a hundred shepherds and informing me that he had asked for a hundred shepherds, offered decent wages, cell phones, food, sleep etc. He asked for 100 calls, and one of them gave up. And I got information from the Employment Service that at that point 74 thousand 900 and something, now I don't know the exact number, but 74 thousand, so nearly 75 grand towards the founding of the Employment Service could have done that occupation as a shepherd. I said then that I wouldn't sign those 1,500 permits and suggest it to the government and discuss it on the Economic Social Council. I don't remember any more humiliations that I personally and as a politician and prime minister experienced than I did back then. So, from literal shame, she's asking all of us to be shepherds. So she's forcing our children to be shepherds. So, what am I saying to my colleague Baranovic? With the laws and all the other efforts, we need to change slowly but surely both behavior and consciousness.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54353	Thank you. Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Kosor, in which I did not agree with the actions your government carried out and the moves that you made as prime minister, of course as someone who has a different political position, so it is something different and the view and the worldview, but in that move I absolutely understand and support you. And if I were you, I'd do exactly the same thing because the fact is that we have to change mentality and we have to raise new generations that don't have complexes when it comes to work. In the end, some big difference, let's look at it, I'm talking about it without a complex between a professional fisherman at sea who hunts for heart or a man who guards cattle and isn't. I've done this job without any complexes, and I'm very likely to do it again in the old days if I get out of professional politics, and I might decide even for that kind of activity because it would probably be much quieter and with much less stress in achieving the incomes needed for my family's fair and normal life. You're absolutely right about that. That kind of mentality, we need to root out in this society because the fact as one of the previous speakers said in politics politicians rarely meet with requests to provide them with the job of shepherds. But on a regular daily basis, they almost encounter requests that may well be heard by the old you know the kid's graduate should find him a job. Well, in no society or those most developed, we can't all be doctors of science or astronauts or we can all be shepherds. But we need to understand that one of the fundamental worlds in the orderly and powerful states is that there is no disgraceful work, there is only shame of inaction and necessity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54355	The third line is respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54356	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Baranovic there was no return of the dial to zero and it was impossible to return it. Of course, there is no time cut in which it is possible to measure the negative consequences or positive results of some of the previous measures. That's impossible. But what you're not saying can be expressed in numbers is not worth mentioning. Well, I'll just back up the facts numbers for no comment. 2011 and 2010 was the same level of youth unemployment with higher and higher education, the same level. Today, 28 grand has grown to 37,000. So 9 grand is more than in 2011 and more than in 2010. By 24, 2011 it was reduced by 1290 compared to 2010 youth unemployment up to 24, and then increased today by 9 807. Everything was measured in September of different years. It's the same with young people and up to 34 years old. There's an increase in unemployment by 18 thousand 962. It's true and I publicly say the measure that was taken to socialize young people, to get used to the work environment was good, but it's a social measure, not an economic measure. It is more volunteer work with scholarships that help young people to get used to and prepare for future work but has had nothing to do with reducing unemployment, nor is it a measure against unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54357	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maric in his presentation, and I have not even characterized that measure of 1600 kuna as a measure to reduce unemployment. It also has its clear name and its clear function. And you have well noticed the extent to which the intensity is to socialize and acquire a professional culture of education, learn access to work, adopt basic knowledge of your profession and prepare for a serious and real working relationship and career. I didn't want to talk about the numbers, and I didn't want to deal with history in the context of the discussion of today's situation that we have and that we actually inherit. Because let's be honest for the last few years, that figure's been going around about 300 grand. Unfortunately, it does not have a good trend so far yet, because the consequences of some of the things that have happened do not come after a month, two, three, and even after a year, but sometimes we feel them for years behind. When we talk about unemployment in the Republic of Croatia, I will only say one thing about which you probably know a lot better numbers as an expert, and that is actually an open question of how many jobs we lost in the Republic of Croatia when we set out a strategy for deindustrating the country and for assembling an economy that is based only on tertiary activity mainly. We put out chimneys, we blew up dynamite, we moved furnaces from Sibenik to Mostar and we made a whole series of decisions, half a commercial fleet to an Arab financier there in the 1990s Croatia lines, Free navigation Sibenik, Dalmatian sailing Vela Luka, Mediterranean sailing of Korčula, millions of gross registration tones, thousands of jobs on boats. How much we lost our jobs with such decisions, such actions, such assessments, such an economic strategy. You must know better than I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54359	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HSU Club, the distinguished representative, Željko Shemper, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. At the time of high unemployment, one of the most frequently visited institutions is HZZ and this law that regulates and relations is often changing what these changes show. The law helps employees at the most difficult moments of their lives, and this is certainly a loss of employment with the help of the institution can somehow survive until new employment or retirement. Each application of the law helps to see the shortcomings of some provisions of the law followed by amendments and amendments to the law. This law regulates employment intervention, education in order to increase employment, insurance for unemployment, as well as active labour market action with a view to new employment. These amendments propose the possibility of insurance during unemployment and for persons carrying out their own activity in the same way as for workers in the employment relationship. They will be entitled to a cash refund provided that the execution of that activity has been terminated for the reasons set out in these amendments. The duration of payment entitlements will envy the total amount of time spent in the insurance system, and the amount of compensation according to the base for payment of contributions for compulsory insurance. Therefore, persons carrying out their own activities will become bonds of payment of employment contributions. Amendments to the law better align relations with the Law on maternity and parental support, the Employment Encouragement Act and the Labour Act. For example, in the case of collectively providing extra workers, the working relationship may end with an agreement between the employer and the worker on the employer's proposal. In the light of this provision, the addition of provisions is implemented in a way that is extremely foreseeable for an unemployed person to exercise the right to cash compensation. In the assessment of the situation, the applicant speaks of an inaccurate definition of an unemployed person, so it is explicitly determined that a legal person is also considered a cooperative and therefore the members of the cooperative cannot be considered as unemployed persons. One of the amendments to this law will please a large number of unemployed in the office because the Institute is abolished on a regular monthly basis. This formal way of recording unemployed people has created great crowds and a waste of time to the detriment of other activities of the staff of the Institute in order to carry out activities to faster and easier employment. There have also been shortcomings in the definition of a professional plan that should be consistent with human potential and the real needs of the labour market. The programme of the Institute for the Implementation of Employment Promotion Measures should also be adapted to the circumstances of the economic crisis and the need for the labour market. Amendments propose to abolish the law-extending institute on cash compensation, after falling into long-term unemployment at a time of 1 to 4 months. The extension of rights by a few months has the practical character of social giving, so an unemployed person should be entitled to compensation under the social care system. This is a fundamental question whether the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth can bridge the time for an unemployed person to survive the period without any cash compensation and without conditions for an old or temporary pension. One of the problems of an unemployed person is education or overtraining in order to hire. It is good that an unemployed person during the course of education is entitled to financial assistance at the minimum amount of cash compensation. The problem is that it is the right of people to use it in education that organizes, or costs, the institution while other unemployed people remain without the possibility of being overqualified at a school or perhaps college. For them, there is no possibility at local community level either because they practically finance students. Asking these persons questions and why such additional education would not be financed through cooperation between the institutions and the European Social Fund where new funding opportunities for employment-related activities are opened. The current system of education through the institutions as a result of having new knowledge particularly in deficits, but a significant number of unemployed persons did not get a chance to requalify what can be said specifically for certain articles, i.e. the reference to Article 5. Article 2(8) relating to the members of the Management Board of Commercial Companies Executive Directors who are in a group entitled to cash compensation and other financial assistance. I believe that an employer with such persons concludes so-called. A manager's contract, not a work contract. Such persons, on the occasion of the termination of the contract, have rich severances prescribed by these contracts, not to be beneficiaries of cash fees. Article 40a states the right to cash compensation does not have an unemployed person who has ceased to carry out an independent activity without justifiable reasons. In paragraph 2, a number of legitimate reasons are listed but my estimates are that each of them can be questioned. Last year, a well-accepted provision on the ability of permanent seasonal workers to work in agriculture via vouchers, and now these changes allow similar work in tourism. The right to financial assistance would have been given to a person who spent at least 6 months working with the same employer on a continuous basis and who will work at least three seasons for the employer or who has worked the previous three seasons. These are all small shifts in employment, but this time of crisis is important to keep or open every job. The club of HSU representatives will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54361	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Party of Work, the esteemed representative Zlatko Tušak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54362	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Amendments to this law go in three directions, one first direction is technical alignment with other laws. In the law we have some provisions that offer quite good solutions and which can be acceptable to Croatian Labourists, but there are also some solutions that as Croatian Labourists simply cannot accept. What I would particularly like to stress is that these are the fourth amendments to the Employment Intermediation Act and the rights during unemployment in a little over a year and a half. We have a law that applies to 350,000 people and if we continue at such a pace we could have ten amendments to the law if this government stays until the end of the term. We began to act practically according to the laws as if we were changing them like a coat and competing who would change them more, I guess how someone remembered and then we would install certain changes into certain legal solutions. This creates a total confusion, it creates a certain legal uncertainty, and therefore my appeal is that certain legal solutions be prepared in quality, to conduct public debates and then to make full and quality laws because it turns out that we don't have a plan, we don't have a strategy, and we don't seem to have a Plan 21 anymore because there's somewhere I've read the biggest violation of workers' rights is unemployment. I have to ask myself, are we doing this job well for the unemployed or not, because most of them will be subject to some of the provisions that are bad in this law? Unemployment is one of the biggest problems that workers face, and once they lose their jobs, it's hard to find a new job and it's practically like getting a major lottery prize. At the employment office, we currently have 341 thousand and 500 unemployed, and each day that number began to grow from 800 to 1000 of those who remain unemployed. In certain counties, unemployment crosses and 30% which is more than alarming and if these data tells us that a large number of people who cannot get to work are on the edge of poverty and that is the information that 1/3 of the population in Croatia is in this area of the poor. Among these 340,000 unemployed are 18.5% of young people up to 24 years. It is one whole generation of young people who are lost in time because they have no chance of getting to work, and it seems to me that their only chance is to find a job somewhere in a country and leave Croatia. We talked a lot about young volunteers today, those for 1600 kuna, but we never got the information from the minister how many of these young volunteers started working in the real sector, which is why we changed the law and how many of them were employed after volunteering in this real sector or were employed in certain state institutions. Once we get the data, according to the latest data on HZZ records, 36 of which 22,000 are those who are out of a job. At the same time, 26 thousand were released from the records, from which 15 thousand workers are employed. We see from this data that the number of unemployed is growing 10 thousand per month and clearly this data is now and within this shorter period of 10 thousand and has become somewhat alarming because seasonal affairs are ending and there will now be an even bigger rush towards the Employment Office. According to this data, we have the highest unemployment rate in the last 10 years, with all possible measures the minister has spent in these two years. Certain proposed amendments to the law are acceptable to the Laburists, but there are also amendments to the law that we cannot agree with and if they remain unable to support such amendments to the law. We don't have a questionable provision when it comes to craftsmen and in the case of the closing of crafts, the exercise of their right at the Employment Service, we think it's a good solution. They will pay contributions to unemployment, with these payments there will be more money and under the same conditions and will exercise certain rights at the Employment Office as well as other workers. But we do not find acceptable solutions that lose the status of an unemployed member of the cooperative. Whether or not a member of the cooperative, and we know that the cooperative can establish 7 cooperatives, even if we compare those 7 cooperatives with that information when it comes to participating 25% in management where more than 25% have no rights here as founders but also members of this cooperative cannot exercise their rights. And now I'm asking myself a certain question. A member of the cooperative may also be employed by a company. In that company, he receives wages, the association may not make any revenue, perhaps even earns some symbolic income. He will remain in his company without a job or be declared a surplus or the company will end up in bankruptcy. He will come to the Employment Service and will not be able to exercise his right to compensation because he is, on the other hand, a member of the cooperative. That is why we believe that this solution is not good and we think that it should simply be changed and if we already want certain rights not to be exercised then at least we should introduce a financial consensus through which this right cannot be achieved at the Employment Office. It is within the law, but it is also in some way harmonising part of the law with EU legislation in temporary employment agencies, the possibility and business of taxing workers. Knowing that temporary employment agencies can give up workers to an employer for up to a year as soon as they can after a year, they will also instruct those workers to work for a month or 2 months with that employer, and then they will return them back to the agency and the agency will, in practice, now with these powers, be able to carry on certain employers in a way to keep a cheap workforce, which is essentially when we say that work through agencies is very little that the worker has over the minimum wage to receive the amount. Certain changes that are within the law, which we cannot possibly accept, which is the abolition of the extended application of cash compensation. Employees, i.e. registered workers who were in the Employment Office when they expired their right to receive compensation and long-term unemployed, were able to apply for this extended fee within 30 days, so that 30 days they were entitled to an extended fee for those who received that fee from 360 to 450 days. 60 days had those from 270 to 330 days, 90 days from 180 to 240 days and 120 days, 4 months from 90 to 150 days. Knowing that it was very difficult to get to work and that any such extended fee meant a great deal to them. Removing this provision we Croatian Labourists cannot accept. That question when and when I asked, I got an explanation that your unemployed powers at the Social Care Center will exercise their right which is not true. They were able to exercise their right at the Employment Office on the basis of the requirements they submitted within 30 days, and at the Centre for Social Care they must have a certain property censorship. And if they don't meet the criteria at the Social Care Centre, they won't be able to achieve such an extended fee. So I appeal that these certain things that are legally prescribed and which in some ways reduce the rights of the documents. In this case, Croatian Labourists would support legal changes, but if such changes do not occur either in the first or in the second reading, we are not prepared to support such changes in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54363	Replica Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54364	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, you mentioned the real sector. You weren't here yesterday when we discussed the entrepreneurship development strategy. When we talk about the real sector, there are a whole series of problems. So you were talking about young people who should enter the real sector after this training or the acquisition of first work experience. However, here you have, there is an even more complicated situation in the sense that we have a lot of engineers, doctors of science who are unemployed in the public sector. What I'm trying to say is that they're rarely employed in the real sector. They're mostly employed in public. That's bad. It's bad that we produce such educated personnel that don't end up in the real sector, they don't create extra value. Doctors of science themselves, therefore, who work exclusively in the public sector, that's not good. It is not good, of course, depending on their profession, but many of them could also contribute to the real sector. Our formal education system has so far been a trom. We have an education strategy in place, so I believe that some changes will be made. But the trom is and often does not follow the trends needed on the labour market. There are a whole series of positive examples for you. Here, I'll get some from Osijek. Young people working in the IT sector, meaning technology, innovations that work very well, who may not have the formal education that is necessary because they do not exist in Croatia but who sell their products, export their products with mahogany and are innovative and competitive not only on the Croatian but also on the foreign market. We have in the end, and this is more in my individual discussion of self-employment, the problem of self-employment and the extremely negative image of the same image, and very few people are and very difficult to decide on self-employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54365	Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54366	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, we practically agreed in the part where I said there was no employment of these experts, or should we call them volunteers in the real sector which is why we think it's bad, and that's why I asked the question so I'd like to know how many of them were hired there? Because knowing, I know the data more or less in the public sector they all volunteer, very little is present in this real sector. And clearly, we need experts with our experience to go through this real sector and make a contribution to development and employment and not to say better business and employment for all those other workers because how this sector will develop and then there is a better chance of employment in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54367	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54368	Thank you very much. I am now only in my replica actually wanted to say what my colleague Hajdukovic said but I will be more exact. In fact, in 340 thousand unemployed, the number of 340 thousand unemployed is 25 thousand with high school supplies. So 25 thousand highly educated people are unemployed. And the second reference I wanted to show myself about is this as you say occasional or temporary employment might actually be called a employment law in Slavonia. Our mostly younger people go back now over the centuries to work in Dalmatia to tourist facilities by any interest in tourist resorts or even in the agriculture sector. For example, picking mandarins, shaking olives, etc. Olive is unscathed, so our Slavons shake it neatly and here are making a few points from the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54369	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54370	Thank you. Well, my colleague Grubisic fully agrees with you, 25 thousand highly educated for one such small country is a very large number at the Employment Office. And God forbid these people get a chance to just start working and getting a job because it can only be good for this country. The truth and in this part when we talk about seasonal labor, then it's the only chance that's left. I, in some ways, support and part of the measures of the minister here and introduces and this is a question of the constant season of what the talks will be about in other legal solutions as well. But that's not supposed to be based on this high unemployment. We must have jobs that will have certain security, starting with what you said to highly educated people who will work in the economy but also those people who will have their own safety and in some way that the labour market works and that someone can look for their job where it suits him most. This way, if he's only convicted of seasonal affairs, and knowing and having certain information is a fairly large number and people with high expertise, the highly educated remains necessarily the only chance they have of working in such seasonal affairs, which is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54371	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54372	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So this is one of the important laws in which there is not too much politics and politicisation, political outwitting because it is really important to support such measures in terms of employment mediation and the exercise of the rights of people who are unfortunately unemployed at this point. As for the HDSSB club in this part that people who do not work in Croatia today are unemployed and unfortunately have to exercise the rights that this law allows us to support in these active employment policy measures. What we will refrain from, and this is the first reading of the law, and there is room for some ambiguity or some thinking of the motionary to be improved. There is, therefore, the possibility of an open debate, and some of the issues have already been raised in the debates so far. What's certainly worrying, which is that the trend in unemployment growth in the past tense, we're here somewhere at 341 grand growing from day to day. And what concerns me, though, as a younger person and a highly educated person, and I am sure my colleagues who graduated from colleges were higher or higher, and I myself worked at a higher scientific institution in the Republic of Croatia, which is that more than 40,000 people with higher and high professional training are unemployed in Croatia today. Therefore, all the measures that will give young people an opportunity, not just for young people, but for all to get a job, should be supported. What makes me particularly happy and I support this is that the Republic of Croatia is actively applying to the use of the European Social Fund because these 8 billion-euro funds are large funds and I am sure this is a contribution to reducing the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. And I support that intention by the ministry and the government to use the funds of this Fund for the employment of unemployed people. We see unfortunately it's not just now the topics are connected and I said that... You don't need to be overly politicized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yesterday we discussed strategic investments, and the Strategic Investments Act on the Strategy for Entrepreneurship Development in the Republic of Croatia. These are all the topics that are connected because these laws should at least provide new jobs and opportunities for employment to people who are unemployed, and above all young people. As regards these measures that exist so far in the law and they are professional training without a working relationship they have proved to be a good measure and as such it is a sort of bypass for young people who have graduated from high school either more or colleges that are in some sense professionally directed and perfected to the possibility that one day they actually exercise their right, which is a lot of employment or to have a working relationship at a certain or undefined time. What I'm a little sure is hurting these young people, which is that they're assimilation in the middle of learning a lot, they realize what they're doing, they understand the work that they're learning, but unfortunately after the deadline they go home, and then it creates a kind of dissatisfaction. First, we give them the chance to feel what it means to do and it is positive and better to be in jobs, to perfect and learn rather than to sit in cafes and do drugs to get drunk so their parents don't know where they are and what they're doing and to grow that crime rate. We see from the state's attorney's report last year that it's disturbing. So this is one of the measures where all the measures are connected that yet these young people point to positive things in life, which is that after the conditions are created and we create them in the Republic that they really get hired, it's something that I'm sure I should support but I say it's a kind of bypass, it's the way to a future work relationship and it's something that I'm telling myself has its own positive but slightly negative things because I'm sure there are problems, a lot of people come up after doing it and pray that they really stay there. And there are many valuable and young people who really know a lot in these conditions and Croatia's EU membership, a lot of value, and when you give them a chance to show it, they are certainly much more satisfied and a positive climate is created. And that's something that's good and it's a measure that, given the economic situation and the crisis that we're in, it's a measure that needs to be supported, and there's nothing we can say against, is that really stupid? And this is further the task of the government and the ministry to ensure a different opportunity for these young people who are educated and educated to find a job opportunity. We have seen that we have a situation with regard to other EU countries that only 3% of people who finish education remain uninterested. Some average in the EU is 15%. So the most important thing for me is that this opportunity is given to people who finish schools and colleges to make that opportunity come true someday. What we can and should support is that this right to compensate for persons who have been engaged in independent activities, which so far has not been done by paying employment contributions. It's a measure that's good. I would suggest on behalf of the club that this 30-day period after the conditions have been created that if such persons do come to an end of an independent activity achieves that right, I would suggest a longer period of whether it is 45 days or 60 days since I consider that 30 days is too little. Whether or not the Proposer can accept it or not, it would be a good thing, given that this deadline seems too small for me. As for the different right to an extended fee that has existed so far, we consider that the abolition of the right is not good and should be redefined differently. The introduction of the removal of persons who are members of cooperatives, and the cooperative is considered a legal person but is otherwise formulated in relation to other legal persons. It is a 25% stake if a person has a legal personality so he cannot exercise the right to compensation as an unemployed person that is something that stands for companies. But in cooperatives, the situation is a little bit different, so there are cooperative members of the cooperative who do not make incomes as members of that cooperative inconsistencies, but thus automation if they are members of some cooperatives, they will lose that right. We believe that it is not good and that, or that the issue is resolved by introducing an income censorship if persons make incomes as members of the cooperative cooperatives, then it is okay that if they have some income, they cannot do so, but if they do not have that right, they should be left behind. There is therefore an opportunity to intervene in this provision of amendments and amendments to the law, so here if there is a possibility that we, for these reasons, will refrain from voting because we believe that this is not a good solution to the comparison of cooperatives with other types of legal persons. All of these active employment policy measures, the development of career management skills, the professional plan so that the active cooperation of an unemployed person from the Employment Office is all the measures that have been given a positive and water to the objective of not only being enough to apply as an unemployed person so that I do not know how much time so that this right or later does not achieve it but it is important that it participates actively in both its professional training and in its guidance through these active employment policy measures and through all the other measures provided for by this law that it truly invests itself in its professional education and in its active participation to find a job, not only to put everything into the hands of the State. It is a measure that is good and at least for the sake of the conscience of the person who is being held as an unemployed person at the office should be in everyone's soul because unfortunately not all persons are unemployed and interested in work. It's the same fact that we can't and can't run. There are people who are offered a job so they reject it. Although this proposal does not pay the wages, does not pay the contributions, and similar to that of this law that such a person will not lose his right to the institution, it is fair and it is okay because it is then a liability to the employer and one who would eventually withdraw unemployed people, so they would find themselves in an even worse situation that they have to work somewhere because they will lose their rights and not get paid. It's something that's fair and that's okay. Other ways of controlling people who are unemployed at the Institute we had examples in the near past and present, and I believe that it will be less and less in the future that is something that needs to be monitored. This measure is okay that a person does not have to regularly report to the Bureau on a monthly basis but should have mechanisms and I believe that there are measures here that allow such persons to be monitored and that they are given the opportunity to, on the basis of active measures, not only one day exercise the right as unemployed but to intervene to become employed. And there are a number of such measures that must be supported as such. However, given what I have said, some solutions that are in one part of the alignment with the EU acquis compare with other EU countries in the environment, but these measures concerning some regulation in the case of cooperatives, when it comes to the rights of extended use of benefits during unemployment, still need to be regulated until the second reading. As for resolving the situation of seasonal workers, to enable them to use their rights on the basis of agreements with trade unions and employers if they have worked for several seasons with the same employer for a long time, I also think it is good and that these people are also given the opportunity to make compensation for the job they did fairly, unfortunately in the few months of the year. But these people who work so hard and really do work through those seasons, and maybe they do it in those 3-4 months more than they do in 12 months full-time, and that's true. And these three are something that should be accepted and supported as such, so here I call on the promoter to consider these proposals until the second reading because really if we are to be honest in this part of it we will help people who are unemployed, that we will intervene in employment, then we must be honest and say that there are a lot of proposals that are positive and good. And what should be a further government policy, which is that the economic situation, foreign investors, investment in Croatia, enable easier investment and the introduction of funds from the European Union countries and the International Community, which has an opportunity and I am sure that there is room for investment in Croatia, that and then what pains this law will greatly reduce because more people will be employed, new jobs will be opened and that is what should be the task and government, but also the Croatian Parliament and all those involved in politics to allow people to be optimistic and pessimism to leave behind the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54373	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54374	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with an assistant, a colleague and a colleague. Here is my colleague, Tušak, well noted, this law actually has several intentions for me, and one of them is to comply with other laws and to correct the provisions that have proved to be lacking, insufficient or unclearly defined. I think it's also a good legal practice if we talk about the work of this legislature, that we use opportunities when we change the law to fix and the things that the practice has shown are not good. I wouldn't agree with my colleague Tušak here because I didn't have time to tell him in the replica, that there was always a sense of uncertainty, that we were changing laws too often and so forth. But here's a colleague we can take, for example, a democratically developed country, at least that's how we perceive and that's the Italian Republic that very, very often changes the laws. So it's not, Croatia can't be the exception, so when we talk about amendments and amendments to the law, it's more like I'd say some operational additions to the law more than changing that essence. I think it's important to point out a few things about this law. My colleagues and colleagues who discussed it on behalf of the clubs have already touched it, so I will not owe it to them, but certainly to welcome it to enable seasons not only to work in agriculture but also in tourism, but it is very well said in the material that we have received under the law that wages vary. So the salaries of seasons in agriculture, in tourism, in other activities are not the same. They also differ depending on the job that the employee performs, but also on the portfolio in which he works, and therefore the level of financial assistance during the extended pension insurance shall be determined in proportion to the amounts of salaries. So I consider it a fair provision in a spirit of equal chance for everyone, that is, in the spirit of what they've been getting for their job done, that they have so much at the level of financial assistance during extended retirement insurance. Also defining the idea of an unemployed person is also something that I would welcome, so the notion of an unemployed person has so far been lacking, the definition has been missing in some segments but I would point out compliance with the new Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Last week in the Assembly, we had opportunities to discuss the problems of persons with disabilities when we had the Ombudsman here for people with disabilities and then we highlighted one of the problems of employability of those persons and I think these regulations are going towards improving their and their competitiveness on the market, but also their status in relation to the formal system and social care and the Employment Office, etc., and their working skills. I would certainly support all the measures aimed at encouraging employment, but also at preserving jobs. The minister also announced some measures to preserve jobs, and I believe that we will soon discuss measures for this. When we discussed the introduction of volunteers, so professional training of young people then I used these exact words, to welcome every progress and a small step towards improving the atmosphere, not only the working atmosphere, but also the atmosphere of work, but every step towards encouraging a positive environment in terms of employment. That's what I'm going to say now and these amendments and the additions to the law I'm experiencing right now in that light. Proactive job search is also an important thing, but the Croatian reality is such that often people, especially those who live in smaller places, after losing their jobs simply can't pro-actively look for a job because there are simply no jobs in their places, there are no employers who could hire them. But there is also the problem of our working force for mobility, so our unemployed find it very difficult to decide when to change their place of residence. So, first of all, I'm talking about middle-aged people, young people here, I'd say, young people are much more mobile, but if we compare that to the trends of labour mobility in Hungary or Germany, they are important, significantly lower because we are witnessing that certain parts of Croatia are differently developed and that in certain parts of Croatia there is a greater or less demand for labour. Self-employment is what I also mentioned before and what we pointed out in the discussions we had yesterday. Self-employment unfortunately in Croatia has a very negative image. People find it very difficult to decide to launch any crafts, any simple companies or anything like that to decide, so they do business on their own, but to do business with intent first of all, so to ensure their existence. It's self-employment. People are there very much said I would very hesitate, I think they're even scared, that they don't understand the concept of self-employment very often. But here again we are in a situation where our education system simply doesn't prepare people to act on the labour market alone, confidently and with more courage, generally as employers and as employers. I'll give you an example, one young person told me when we talked, so she's been unemployed for a long time. He's looking for a job, unsuccessfully, he can't find it, but he's got one great idea, he's got this great business idea that could ultimately mean the existence of at least that person and maybe, it means in some potential period and for more people. And when I suggested so let's not do it, try, start from the housework and then he told her, you know, it's too much work, it's too much of a risk, but I'd rather go somewhere and turn the papers for 3,000 kuna. So, awareness of entrepreneurship in general and then self-employment is something that needs to be strengthened. Our young people and others who are unemployed simply need to understand the benefits of self-employment but also what is sometimes necessary for the same. Also, when we talked about self-employment, i.e. about starting a job, we mentioned a very important segment that I think is important to stress again, which is that for beginners, so for those who intend to just get a very difficult job in the initial stages of the job comes to finance. Therefore, commercial banks on the market are now very difficult to place capital on the market, i.e. lending especially to beginners, beginners. So when we talk about realisation and ideas like this, that first financial injection means life. Some take advantage of it, some don't, of course it's already a matter of a person or business vision. But the fact is that these first finances are very difficult to come by and therefore, among other reasons they are very, therefore, very reluctant to enter the business, i.e. in the opening of trades, companies, etc. I would certainly welcome the activation of the Croatian Employment Service in the active search for and preparation of unemployed persons to go out to the labour market. The Croatian Employment Service, as pointed out in this debate, needs first of all to be an institution that helps people find a job and not a social person. So only reporting to HZZO in itself doesn't mean anything. But if a person can get information about requalifications, possibilities, credit lines, promotion of entrepreneurship and the like, so if they express that wish, that is what I think the Croatian Employment Service should actually do. Units of local self-government as always are able to help and suggest also to local employment services, but also according to the county or state. What are the deficiting professions that are sought, which are the occupations for which a job is easily found in a particular area. I am witnessing that fewer and fewer students are opting for craftsmanship, technical occupations, and that there is a lack of the same staff in the labour market. Let me get this straight. Active HZZO measures are certainly to be welcomed. The harmonisation and removal of shortcomings in this law is certainly to be welcomed and I see this as another small step towards improving the employment atmosphere in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54375	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic will finally speak. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54376	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm glad this bill still gets the support of all clubs. And what needs to be read from this support that it is clear to all that the active employment policy measures themselves and the Employment Service themselves are not measures to reduce the number of unemployed, but only to open new investments and create new jobs. However, we have to say that in recent years there is somewhere in 2010, the 11th Employment Service and active employment policy measures have served as a measure to reduce the number of unemployed but only at the cosmetic level because at that time in the law, we had a provision that if we send a man from the Employment Service to education that he ceases to be unemployed and, in that way, it is in 2011 which we are now comparing ourselves with and which we are now processing the figures that figure has been artificially reduced by 15000 people. We have already said in previous amendments to the law that whoever goes to further education, education is still unemployed to stay in the employment office records. Thus, these measures used to serve as cosmetic measures to embellish the number of unemployed. We also said we shouldn't hide that number. You can see that number every day at the Employment Service. We simply want everyone to be aware of the weight of the problem and to make it clear to everyone that we need to take a step in this area. If we change the law and change it and change it as many times as it takes to adapt the law and the active measures themselves, adapt the labour market and adapt it to the needs of the unemployed. It is clear that we need to step forward in time and that everything we can change, change and it is not a problem to create a consolidated text but it is important to allow changes to be made on the labour market that will make it easier for people to work, to raise their competences, knowledge and skills, to become more employable in the labour market, and that is the intensity of this law, and that is the intensity of active employment policy measures. The Croatian Employment Service has actively participated in the development of this law. What we have done unlike the former ministry where work and employment have been incorporated into a large Ministry of Economy, the establishment of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, we have implemented better coordination, better visibility and better coordination when we talk about active employment policy measures because active measures are being negotiated at the government level, at the level of the ministry, rather than at HZZO level. So this observation that people should be consulted at the Employment Service who have experience in these measures absolutely does not stand because they are part of the implementing measures and they are involved in the very making of the law. But the laws are passed by the Government and this Parliament, and HZZO is an implementing body that has something to say and I note that in the drafting of these measures, all those who work in the Employment Office are actively involved in active policy measures and who work in the implementation of the law itself. The active policy and employment measure is 43. So these are not measures aimed at young people. So that the conclusion that was made in the debate that they are targeting only young people does not stand because, in these 43 measures, a large part of the measures is directed towards the long-term unemployed, according to national minorities, towards women on the labour market. We are preparing now and a special programme that will go towards getting married as best as possible and more effectively involved in the labour market and start with entrepreneurship. We are here in agreement with all interested parties that this part that is related to women's entrepreneurship is better supported by the measures that are in the Employment Office. The answer to how many young people have been hired after this year's work without a working relationship, here's an answer, please, here's an esteemed representative of Tušak write it down somewhere and remember, 50-50. We were somewhere and 30-70 at the beginning, so we're 40-60, now we're about 50-50. What we think is that this figure will rely more on this real sector because we have given the real sector another option, which is that when the young man ends a year to this end, then if the employer hires him or if another employer hires him, we will then resuscitate 50% of the salary over a year. So I hope that this relationship will shift even further to the real sector. The finding that this work without establishing a working relationship is not included in the work experience does not stand for the reason that contributions have been paid. So for all these young people, contributions were paid for pension insurance and they are going and internship and as far as working legal records at the Pension Insurance Office are concerned, they were enrolled in the place where they worked, regardless of their classical working relationship. As far as the extended fee is concerned, the extended fee is a social measure. So it has nothing to do with unemployment, it has nothing to do with the redundancies, so it's 1.7% for employment. So it has nothing to do with that. And what we want all those fees to be paid from one place. So it also doesn't stand to conclude that an extended fee is abolished. No, it is not abolished but transferred to the welfare system together with the funds intended for the measure. You can check in the budget for next year what was at the position of the Employment Service I think it's about 60 million kuna, these funds are being transferred to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth where that part will be included in those social benefits because it's a social compensation. It's about social benefits, not self-employment. As far as cooperatives are concerned, it is, and now it exists in the current law, we've only defined it better, so we haven't introduced anything. So we've introduced, we've just better defined what is the legal status of the person in the community, and we think that since they have a share in the community as well as those who have shares in companies and administrations as managers, they have no right to this fee. Therefore, our attitude is clear. We will clearly hear all the comments and all the suggestions in the debate. And lastly, we are absolutely not satisfied with the structure of the unemployed. There's always talk of highly educated young people being gone by 10,000 young people. What will be convenient to see the statistics of the State Institute which indicates that in 2011 we have these data from Croatia went away 12 thousand people, but at the same time 8 thousand people entered Croatia. So there's a negative balance around 4,000 people out there somewhere. So far from the number they're talking about. It is clear that young people are leaving Croatia and are looking for their jobs. They've been leaving before, they'll be leaving even later, even when there's a job opening because it's clear that the labour market is wide. The whole of Europe is opening up, and there will be young people in this area and out of our country, but they will come to us. And what we're not happy about, and I'm sorry that no one was talking about is the structure of our unemployed because those highly educated people who have completed higher education are only 11% and we're going to hire them, they're going to find their jobs. What's the main problem is that we have 62% of the unemployed middle school staff, 22% of the unemployed with primary school and 5% of the unemployed without any school. And that's the problem with our labour market. The problem is this qualification structure, which is extremely unfavourable unlike Germany and Austria where this structure is completely different because you are going straight to Germany after secondary education in Austria. We do not have this and this is part of the legacy of what we had before and in this area we have to change some things in a way to change and education to get closer to companies, to educate those interests that we can hire in Croatia, and that is what this government is doing, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education, the Croatian Qualifications Framework is a tool to do so. I'm sorry we didn't talk about this because that's the problem of the labour market is the problem of how to hire a medium professional device, how to hire those of our citizens who have a primary school because for them and for their occupations is the growing demand. What we are going to do is, together with the European Social Fund in this area, we are going to go to requalifications for qualifications, a response to the esteemed representative, Shemper, that we cannot finance regular education from the European Social Fund, we can finance education, but regular education cannot be financed from the European Social Fund. And when we talk about the compensation of $1,600, we're at this point in our position that it's important for us to hire as many people as possible and to keep as little as possible at the Employment Service. We could have raised a double fee so that all of us together cost the state 3,200 kuna but then instead of 15,000 young people who are to this extent would have been 7.5. So it's a matter of funding if we get funds from the European Fund, and I believe that we will, and then this compensation will go up 1,600. Thank you very much, and I hope you will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54377	Replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54378	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers, you are when we talk about an extended fee from 1 to 4 months that were entitled to unemployment at the Employment Office and still have according to the applicable law said the funds would be transferred. The funds are one thing, and the rights are the other. All those who have so far submitted this request extended by 30 because at the Social Care Centre, there are completely different rules. Only if you're going to change those rules in that law and then everyone, and then that's going to have to be incorporated into the Law on the exercise of rights at the Social Care Centre so that they all file a request within 30 days at the Social Care Center, then it has to be regulated by that law. I was talking about the rights that everyone at the Employment Service has, and that's the one that's long-term unemployed from 1 to 4 months, not the funds. You're the one who answered me about the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54379	The reply to the replica by Minister Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54380	So the funds go to rights, so the Social Care Act will regulate this part. What's our intensity is that social benefits are paid from one place and that we don't get that same person, I'm not talking about people who are unemployed right now, but I'm talking about other social benefits that you can have in the welfare system a fee of more than 5,000 kunas when it comes to the sum, so there's the same problem Minister Opačić is in this area doing what needs to be and that means that those who need that social compensation and get it unlike those who and in that system have been able to get paid in an illegal way, not belonging here and the funds and rights go where they need to be and that's in the social care system. The law is coming into debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54381	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54382	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment, first reading, P.Z. No. 487. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'd like to make a statement on this conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes, and 11 abstentions have been reached with the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54383	We will now discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Assistance Programme in Transition and Strengthening Institutions for the year 2012, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 483 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Funds. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU Funds Dr. Yaksha Pugliz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54384	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Assistance Programme for Transition and Strengthening Institutions for 2012 so it is another so-called Colloquium-named IPA laws allowing the implementation of individual components of the IPA programme. Namely the IPA program and after entering the RH some parts of the IPA program continue, namely IPA component 1, IPA component 2, IPA component 5. There is a law before you that will allow the use of IPA component 1 funds for the 2012 programming year. Only a few information related to chronology, so in order to implement the funding agreement programme between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the EU Commission concerning the National Programme for the IPA Assistance Programme in transition, they signed on 17 December, on behalf of the European Commission, Director of General Enlargement Administration, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mattija Derk, Assistant Minister. What is specifically determined by this Agreement? This Agreement lays down the conditions necessary for the use of assistance from the European Union, the rules and procedures relating to the payment of this aid and the conditions for the management of European Union funds. The programme itself is based on a framework that has been set through a multi-year indicative planning document. This is a roof document covering the use of IPA funds in the period 2011/2013. A year. The priorities identified by this multiannual indicative programme are as follows. Strengthening the rule of law, reforming public administration, preparing for the implementation of cohesion agricultural policy, or rural development policy. As regards the financial value of this programme for 2012 it is a total of 370.3 million kuna. From this, the European Union's donation through the IPA programme amounts to 267 million kuna, while the rest must be provided by the authorities of the state administration in their budgets. It's a total of 103 million kunas that we have to provide for national security. As regards planned consumption or enforcement. It is planned to spend EUR 313.4 million for the first year of the implementation of this programme in the fiscal year 2014 while EUR 56.9 million would be spent in the fiscal year 2015. For the sake of illustration, I will briefly mention only what projects are specific. The European Commission's assistance under this programme will be spent through the implementation of a total of 11 projects affecting several sectors. The first sector is called public administration reform. The main objectives in this sector are to support the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Human Resources, to support the capacity of public administration in the central, regional, local level for decentralisation reform processes and to support the administrative capacity of the Ministry of Administration and to support further coordination with European Union legislation in the field of public procurement, taxes, statistics, customs, budgetary reforms and internal financial control. The first project in this sector is called support for better public administration work. The total value is 1.1m euros and the project aims to promote and protect human rights, open and transparent public administration through improved participation of citizens in public affairs, as well as active participation of public administration at regional and local level in the cohesion policy of the European Union, the project holder is the Ministry of Administration. The second project is worth 2m euros. The holder of the project is the Customs Administration or the Ministry of Finance. The funds will be spent on the purchase of information equipment for the customs administration with a view to raising the effectiveness of the implementation of customs systems after entering the European Union. Project 3 is worth 4m euros and it actually covers a number of smaller sub-projects aimed at helping the capacities of the state administration in a number of areas from the judiciary and home affairs to regional development, entrepreneurship and other areas. Another very important sector is the judiciary, home affairs, fundamental rights. The sector will finance a project to strengthen the capacity and efficiency of the state's attorney's office and the USKOK. This project is worth 3.3m euros. In addition, we have a project in the same sector that concerns further improvement of the judicial management system. This project is worth 6.6m euros and the purpose of the project is to establish a reliable and effective system of court management in Croatian courts through optimization of business processes and upgrade of an integrated system of judicial management. The user of this project is the Ministry of Justice. The sixth project refers to the support of the prison system. He's also a user of the Justice Department. And the goal is to establish a lifelong learning system for the prison administration and to improve the quality of the infrastructure for the prison system, a specific penitentiary in Turopol. The seventh project refers to the construction and equipment of the Tovarnik police station and the Maljevac border police station is worth three million euros, the Ministry of Interior is a beneficiary. The eighth project is called civil society organisation as an internal control mechanism for the preservation of European Union standards is worth 5.7m euros. And the project aims to improve the participation of citizens in public affairs and to protect human rights. User of the project is Office for Croatian Government Associations. The ninth project refers to support for the national minors at local level and is the beneficiary of the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities. The 10th project is called strengthening policy and capacity to reduce undeclared work. The Ministry of Labour and the Pension System is the beneficiary of this 1.5m-euro project. The objective of the project is to develop a comprehensive strategy to reduce undeclared work through the improvement of control and enforcement policies, as well as to strengthen capacity and cooperation of relevant institutions. And finally the last project under this programme concerns the financing of the membership fee of the Republic of Croatia for participation in the so-called Union programmes. The total value of these memberships is 14.7m euros. So, with the help of the IPA programme, we will co-finance one part of the cost of paying the membership fee of the Republic of Croatia in programmes such as the framework programme for competitiveness and innovation, Marco Polo, the seventh framework programme for research and technological development, culture 2007-2013, customs 2013 and so on, and so on. In short, that would be it. So it's simply a law that will allow all these funds to start to be used, users are central authorities of the state administration, the amount is very important. And I hope your understanding and support for the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54385	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54386	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The main issues proposed and regulated by this draft law and agreement are financing, the specific conditions for the delivery of assistance to the European Union, the rules and procedures relating to payment relating to this aid, as well as the conditions under which it will be assisted and managed. The total value of this programme is for 2012 380 million 350 million 560 kuna, of which 2% are the funds that we will receive from the European Union's gift, and 28% we must secure in front of the state administration body in our budgets. After years, it has been allocated that a total of 314 million 434 800 kuna should be allocated in the fiscal year 2014 and a total of 56 million 915 766 kuna should be allocated for 2015 to implement the agreement. It's quite... the means we're going to need and be able to use them. First of all, the Commission's assistance focuses primarily on the justice, internal affairs and fundamental rights sectors, public administration reform, the environment, climate change, transport, private sector development, the social development of agriculture and rural development. Allocation of these funds primarily under the National Programme... for strengthening institutions and for investment. Here, when we see little that in 2012, we have 72% of the funds that take place for institutions compared to 28% for investments while in 2013, we have a reverse case, we have 34% of the funds to strengthen institutions and 67% for investments. Indeed, in my opinion, and in the future, we should see that what we need is that we invest in quality investment. In order to achieve the priorities selected for financing from 2011 to 2013, the Commission will focus its assistance on the following two sectors. These are the sectors of public administration reform and justice and the internal affairs and fundamental rights sector. In the public administration and judiciary reform sector, it is aimed at supporting the implementation of the human potential development strategy and increasing the capacity of public administration at central, regional and local level. It also focuses on the issue of harmonisation of capacity in the field of customs and tax, and for these activities it provides for 7 million 188 thousand 239 euros. When we talk about the internal affairs and fundamental rights sector, they focus on strengthening the independence and efficiency of the judiciary, supporting fundamental rights and their protection, especially for minority groups and refugees, contributing to refugee returns and continuing the implementation of the Action Plan for Integrated Border Management and Schengen Action Plan. The national programme also includes measures to support Croatia's efforts to fight organised crime, strengthen the capacity of law enforcement institutions, and support demining measures. In that section that's defined as sectors and... I'd single out three that I think are very important here. The first part is to invest and refer to a project for... management of the prison system and to invest in appropriate repairs of facilities in the Turopolje Penitentiary where the need for material investment has been confirmed among other things by the European Commission expert mission, confirmed at the end of 2011. First of all, it is really necessary here because more intensive investment in the prison system is needed, and we know what their problems are in this system. The main problem is overcrowding, lack of official personnel, equipment is not enough and, above all, obsolete and must indeed be guided and defined before the action plan for improving the prison system of the Republic of Croatia. For that part of the sector, funding of 4m and 976m euros is foreseen. The second part, which I would like to emphasise, is the sector that is financed, which is the definition of objectives, the project to create a safe environment and create security conditions for sustainable return and socio-economic development in war-affected areas through the implementation of demining operations in Lika-Senjska, Sisak-Moslavina and Zadar County. We know what the problem of demining is, we know first of all that it is defined and not only for the safety of our citizens but that is what is defined here and possible sustainable development, return and socio-economic development. The programme is defined by 4 million and 212 thousand euros, and we hope that with this we will actually succeed in increasing the objectives mentioned above in these counties. I would also mention this third part that I think is important, which is a project that deals with the issues of national minorities' participation in public affairs and the protection of human rights through elected minority councils at local and regional level. First of all, it protects the rights of the Roma national minority at local level and contributes to improving the conditions of Roma housing as the most vulnerable minority group through cooperation between local stakeholders and... participation of Roma themselves. For the project, the total support is estimated at 2m and 40,000 euros. This is given that this financing agreement for the European Commission comes into force on the day on which the Commission receives written notice that the internal legal procedures in the Republic of Croatia are being fulfilled for its entry into force, which means that the implementation of the projects to be financed by this financing agreement cannot be launched before. There is a legitimate interest in its recent entry into force, and here is the HNS club, Liberal Democrats, as such, to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54387	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54388	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy. The proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the financing of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission in relation to the national programme for Croatia under the IPA programme will be supported quite logically because this is a legal basis for the financing of projects proposed by the Republic of Croatia. So it's about the first component of the programme and it's focused on two sectors. One is public administration and justice reform, i.e. internal affairs and fundamental rights. There are no competitions in classical terms in this component, but the national programme itself offers a description of the projects that will be financed through it and data shows that the EU is giving the gift shop around 72% of the value, and the same procedure is foreseen for the next two years. The National Programme notes that special attention is given to preparations for the Structural, Cohesion Funds, through capacity building at local and regional level and when it comes to strengthening public administration. I especially point this out because the impression is that there's a lot of work left in this area. As far as I can see, the project that should build funds capacity is called a flexible instrument for strengthening administrative capacity, and it comes down mainly to agreements on services of consultants, which are used by the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds and it is not stated at all that this will be implemented at local and regional level, whether consultants will provide education to all interested people, whether it will help design projects, whether it will leave some tangible material behind. Like a manual or some kind of fund management manual. Namely, in the case of indicators that need to measure success, only materials for training are made, training carried out, sufficient number of civil servants trained. So, training materials, which doesn't mean concrete fund management, making documentation and stuff. State officials do not mean local self-government officials or other civil servants, and some potential contractors or users of projects do not talk. In other words, whether these will help local self-government units develop projects or not. I'll list some deputies... but some of the projects that represent one part of the activities launched and really need to work hard and seriously to successfully implement them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, support for better public administration work, the purchase of information equipment for the Customs Administration and the strengthening of the capacities of the DORH and USKOK, the improvement of the judicial management system. Although I have to say, this project is a big hoot, and it seems very important to me. Furthermore, support for the prison system, construction, equipment of the Tovarnik police station and the Maljevac border police, support for national minorities, strengthening capacity to reduce overtime, etc. etc. I could count it now. All in all, I think that the report on the implementation of these projects, so the moment it is realized and should come to this House, and I hope that at that moment it will be a little more up-to-date than the programme in which we are talking about even the upcoming EU accession, the plans for 2012 and so on. That's it. So, we're going to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54389	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54390	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. There's a proverb, a folk proverb that says a gift horse doesn't look in the teeth. I would also say about this legislative proposal to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission in connection with the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Programme not to read further, the transition assistance component and strengthening institutions for 2012 with the final draft of the law. Namely, as my predecessor said here in connection with the implementation of these projects, there is no writing here allocation. Yes, it's true, it's an allocation for the National Programme for 2012 because there's no location, so it's allocation. So let's start in order. What is foreseen for 2012 is the source of funds and the amount of funds already being said here. Therefore, it is 300 and 70 million and 350 thousand kuna, of which the Republic of Croatia is co-financed by these programmes of 103 million kuna or 28%, and the EU is 267 million and 28 thousand 905 kuna. Where are these 103 million kunas co-financed by the Republic of Croatia? Where are those 103 million kunas? So when we look at allocations for the national programme description of these allocations then we see at the last point, which is participation in Union programmes and agencies at the height where national funding participates with almost 10 million euros or 70, about 70 million kuna. That's 9 million 638 thousand euros. So, come on, there's a total of 14 million, and Croatia, so national co-financing is 9 and 600. About other allocations for the National Programme for 2012 says so. Public administration reform, national funding of 78000 euros, and the EU or IPA programme a million and 100,000 euros. And then we have an explanation below that the overall objective of the project is to support better public administration work, and the overall objective of the project is to contribute to the promotion and protection of human rights (the right of minorities), open and transparent public administration. The user is the Ministry of Administration. The component one will be implemented by one service contract to support the effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities by a single procurement contract for the purpose of obtaining and setting up the necessary information equipment. One contract to purchase, it says literally and set up the necessary information equipment. Where? Information equipment at the Department of Administration? Somewhere dislocated in Osijek maybe, Split, Rijeka, where? So we don't have much of a detailed explanation about that. About Customs Administration under number two, so project, purchase of information equipment for the Customs Administration. Maybe this is under the number one public administration in the city of Vukovar because it's also about national minorities, about the constitutional right of national minorities, so maybe these money will go to the city of Vukovar, thank God, God. Therefore, the purchase of information equipment for the Customs Administration of 2m euros. Okay, we know that, given that Croatia is planning, and given the case of Matas and the other pranks that we are planting on the European Parliament and the European Commission, it seems that it will not be in the Schengen regime so quickly, so 2m euros are foreseen and for what? To connect with EU information systems. It's the main substrate and the main sentence and the main thought in all of this. Therefore, the purchase of information equipment for the Customs Agency for the integration with EU IT systems. Number three, flexible instrument for strengthening administrative capacity. He says this, the aim of this instrument is to strengthen the capacity of Croatian state and regional authorities, therefore regional. Which one? If it's the district authorities or if it's all county, one county, three counties or what? We don't have a defined and clear emphasis on where these money's going. That's what I'm saying. I may oversimplify things, simplify them, but that's the way it is. Now in the judiciary, it is said this way that the goal in this sector is to shorten the length of the proceedings and the number of cases left behind. I wonder if using these measures from the IPA component, the IPA program will get to that. Here we are today witnessing that newspapers write how many cases the Republic of Croatia has in the Strasbourg court and how much it pays millions, the millions amount to damage due to the slow trial and the wrong verdicts. In millions of euros, it is measured. I'd like it to be reduced by the application of this allocated National Program as it says here. Strengthening the capacity and efficiency of the DORH, i.e. USKOK. We are witnessing the latest affair "Remorker" so-called "Remorker". So I wonder if the DORH has launched an action based on a tip and a report from the Czech Prosecutor's Office or has it started on its own? Although the events are related, I won't name the participants seven years ago, eight years, five years, six years ago. Both DORH and USKOK 3 million and 300,000 euros to increase efficiency. To ensure that all those criminal charges are derived from the drawers and that any examination, processing or handing over to the courts for trial is initiated. Oh, my God. The system of improving the management of court cases, it is said here that the Republic of Croatia lost more than one million kuna in a dislocated trial. That means it's not allocated, it's dislocated. So the party is from Slavonski Brod and lawyers and travel to Djakovo or Požeg where there are fewer cases to be tried. Because the network of courts has been so established that there are some more, some fewer cases. 6 million and 600,000 euros and for our judiciary. Okay. Support to the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, which clearly states why 4m euros are intended for almost 5m euros. First of all, it's about the Centre for Education of the Administration of the Prison System and the Penalty in Turopoly. It's written by the name and last name of a penitentiary in Turopoly. So we have a subject to actually be helped. And what our Slavonia is looking forward to and all of us together to finally in these powerful projects from the IPA component of the IPA program and all other components we have a Police Station Factory. The Tovarnik police station at the border with, therefore, the last stop in Srijem railway after Vinkovac, Ilace is also arriving in the town of Tovarnik, the birthplace of A.G. Matoša, so the last Croatian place on the border with Serbia, and today the last train station in the Republic of Croatia and the police station in which certain people who participated in the Homeland War and they are even on the other side are being embolized. Today, they are working at the Tovarnik Police Station and this station together with Maljevac, which is the border crossing towards Velika Kladuma in Sisak-Moslavina County, is so Mrs. Roksandic, a total of 3m euros. So this is where the 3 million euros go to and for which they go, and in these other projects it's very hazy to suggest it all together. So, Turopolje, Factory, Malevac it's exactly written. Organisation of civil society internal control mechanism for the preservation of EU standards. Such a strong definition is so clear, with an emphasis on protecting the rights of national minorities and the rights of the Roma minority of 5 million and 775 thousand euros. Support for local national minorities, I regret that there are no representatives of the Roma national minority here where three occasions in these allocated programmes are mentioned by the Roma National Minority. But I must say, my colleague Kajtazi will have to make sure that, given the funds offered here, if the funds have not already been allocated to obtain money to legalise buildings in the Roma settlement in Slavonski Brod, where there are about 500 to 600 buildings already built, but I can't get any local, building permit in view of the illegality of building these objects. So perhaps if I see him and he is present in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia or in the Assembly, I will ask that through this IPA programme and these components of the civil society organisation, the internal control mechanism for keeping EU standards try to elect money to legalise the Roma settlement in Slavonski Brod, or perhaps someone else, or through support to national minorities at local level. Finally, we have a 10 project to strengthen policies and capacities to reduce undeclared work or grey economy. So it's about supporting the Ministry of Labour and the pension system where a million and a half euros are foreseen, but since our people are resourceful, I don't believe that there will be enough and 15 million euros to reduce the work on black or grey but let them try. And what I said at the beginning, participation in Union programmes and agencies is the highest item in relation to national co-financing in relation to EU co-financing. It's no longer 28% but it's the other way around, so two-thirds or 66% is national co-financing, and IPA is one-third. Where's he taking part? It participates in Union programmes and agencies, a very interesting reverse situation. So put the coke back at the end at number 11 and return the coke you've scratched all of this you've got now you're gonna bring it back. So I have to repeat that first sentence I said, the gift horse is not looked at in the teeth, so since we are still in the plus when everything is summed up and taken away and the HDSSB club will be for this legislative proposal to confirm the IPA funding agreement, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54391	It's a pedestal of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54392	Well, here I am going to look back on one part of this before I would say one thought of an esteemed colleague than the debate itself because there have been a lot more talk about other topics, not those on the agenda but good. Among other things, you have touched Mr. Neven Mates and his election at the European Court of Auditors and Croatian talent to cause scandals. There's no scandal here, dear colleague. Mr. Matas passed the election process, passed the hearing procedure, gave written indications of his election by two EU bodies, the parliament said. Yes, the opinion was indeed negative but the final decision has been made by the EU Council. And the Council of the EU as the only body responsible for the election of Mr Mates has made the choice and elected him judge of the Court of Auditors. So there is no scandal here and all that we can witness today in the EU Parliament has much less to do with the Republic of Croatia and much more to do with the relationship between the EU Parliament and the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54393	I'm closing the debate. I'm sorry, the answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54394	You're defending a fellow coat of arms. It's all clear and everything is as they say if he says a goat doesn't lie to a horn. So we heard statements from Mr Mates and I was present at the EU Parliament before I knew when it was in the 6th month, when Mr Matas was debated and voted on. I will not speak of that name nor mention qualifications and anything else. But if you had just found yourself defending what's inconceivable, it's very symptomatic of you from the SDP, it's all clear in fact, but it's still going to be heard from later on I wouldn't want to talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54395	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54396	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Assistance Programme in transition and strengthening institutions for 2012, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 483. The debate on the law is closed. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 93 votes, the Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA-Component Programme has been adopted and the strengthening of institutions for 2012 in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54397	And we will also discuss tonight: - The proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts related to the murder of Stjepan Đurekovic The proposal for a decision to establish an investigative commission has been submitted by 50 SDP deputies. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54398	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 2 The law on investigative committees that are prescribed the possibility of establishing investigative committees for each issue of public interest, a group of SDP representatives, proposes to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts related to the murder of Stjepan Djurekovic. To remind us, Stjepan Đurekovic, a Croatian immigrant, dissident and writer, was killed on 28 July 1983 in the Federal Republic of Germany. The judgment of the Multi-earth Court in Munich of 16 July 2008 sentenced Krunoslav Prates to life imprisonment for the murder of Stjepan Djurkovic. However, the cited verdict suggests that Krunoslav Prates was only one of the participants in the murder. He neither organized nor committed suicide but only by his actions enabled the perpetrators to commit murder both later and escape. The same verdict also suggests that it is unknown who were the perpetrators of the murder themselves and that the murder was the result of the decisions of the then Croatian and Yugoslav political summit, and that such politically motivated killings of Croatian immigrants were the usual way of working security services of the former state. Furthermore, it is apparent from the cited verdict that there is a strong indication that Stjepan Đurekovic was also involved in planning, organising and executing the murder of a senior public office in the independent Republic of Croatia. And it is known that they are not subject to proper court proceedings in the Republic of Croatia which would result in the punishment of the perpetrators of the murder in question. The only one who was punished for murder was Krunoslav Prates, who was yet only one participant of the crime and who was sanctioned by the German rather than the Croatian judiciary. The facts cited in the cited judgment also indicate that public authorities in the Republic of Croatia could at least be known to the facts about the perpetrators, organisers and contracting authorities and similar politically motivated murders. And notably, these bodies have done nothing about lighting up the murder and sanctioning the perpetrators. In view of the SDP's comments as proposing the establishment of an investigative commission, it is considered that there is an unequivocal public interest in determining who planned, organised and executed the murder of Stjepan Đurekovic, who were motives for making such a decision as well as decisions in other similar situations. But it is primarily public interest to know why the Republic of Croatia did not take appropriate steps against the potential perpetrators of these and similar crimes. Proposers therefore believe that it is in the public interest to determine whether potential perpetrators, organisers and orderers of politically motivated murders and other politically motivated crimes were protected in the Republic of Croatia and if they were who protected them and why. The area of research of this investigation committee will cover the activities of all state bodies, in particular the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the State Attorney's Office and the security intelligence apparatus as well as other legal and natural persons who are in any way connected or can assist in determining the facts relating to the murder of Stjepan Djurkovic and the conduct of the state bodies towards the detection of the perpetrators. In order to identify all relevant facts, it is necessary to investigate the circumstances under which the murder of Stjepan Đurekovic was committed, which is why the persons suspected of committing this and similar politically motivated murders since the acquisition of the independence of the Republic of Croatia have not been initiated. Whether the perpetrators, organizers and contracting entities and similar politically motivated murders against the acquisition of the independence of the Republic of Croatia were protected from persecution and if they were who protected them, and all other facts that could shed light on the events and circumstances that led to the investigation of the commission. In conclusion, and with regard to the observation that this is about a commission which would affect the work of judicial institutions, we note that Article 4. The law on investigating committees stipulates that the investigation committee cannot be established on the issues under which the court proceedings were initiated for so long as the proceedings are pending. Since it is not known in the present case that one or more persons for the offence in question are being prosecuted in Croatia, it does not exist, nor does this obstacle to the establishment of the commission, and a group of MPs suggest that the Croatian Parliament supports making such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54399	Thank you. Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54400	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I must admit that from this explanation some of the real ones are not clear to me. A group of MPs are actually here asking why the Republic of Croatia has not taken steps for one, in the case of one murder. It's said in the argument that it was if I wasn't wrong about the usual practice of these services, or it's known that it was committed in the period from the 1960s to the '90s somewhere around 60 of these murders. So I don't understand why you don't ask who, why, and how you've been carrying out these murders, who's been ordering them, who's been doing them. So we can get a full picture of how that system worked. Like this... The task accuses Croatia of not punishing and not questioning the regime that did it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me that this is exactly how things don't work, and then it's the wrong message for the public to find out the real truth about both the system and how it is, how it all went, how everyone responsible was involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54401	The answer to the replica of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54402	Here's an esteemed colleague I thank you for this replica, so I'd like to make a point, that precisely because we don't understand what happened specifically and there's a need to set up this investigative committee. And the task of this investigation committee is not only related to the murder of Stjepan Djurkovic. The task, and thus the proposal for a decision also refers to similar killings, which is why against persons suspected of committing these and similar politically motivated murders are not driven by appropriate actions and whether the perpetrators, organisers, contracting entities and similar politically motivated murders have been protected from persecution and if they are who protected them. I think it's already been accepted that such politically motivated murders have occurred in that system. I don't think we need to find hot water and say that's what happened. Our job is to see why the last 20 years have not been done to sanction these people. Whether they were protected and motivated by those who were protecting them to do so. Now that's the commission's job and I'm really wondering, and I really don't understand why there was a need for these people to protect themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54403	Gordan Jandrokovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54404	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my replica is somewhere on the trail of what my esteemed colleague Tudjman was saying. I'll read the explanation you gave for this commission. So, you say, given the proposals mentioned, there is an unequivocal public interest in determining who planned, organised, committed the murder of Stjepan Đurekovic, who were the motives for making such a decision and the decision in other similar situations. Now you point out, but the public's interest is above all to find out why the Republic of Croatia did not take appropriate steps against the potential perpetrators of this and similar crimes. So you're telling us that it's not important to determine, or that it's less important to determine who killed, who ordered it, but it's important for you to determine why no investigation has been conducted if it hasn't been carried out. It's scandalous to me, it's an incredible thought that someone can say that it's more important to determine why no quality investigation has been conducted at some point than to determine who killed that man and who ordered that murder. This speaks a lot about the proposing's intentions, but it also speaks a lot about the mental part of the proposings because it does not matter to him to determine who killed and who ordered it, it is less important. It is important in one political game to transfer responsibility for not conducting an investigation to someone else. So you don't care about the fact of the murder, it's much less important to you to please the victim, the family and the victim, to find out who killed him. It's more important for us to talk and politicize why in the '90s someone didn't do their job. That's amazing to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54405	Replication response, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54406	Yeah, buddy, you're right, we want to find out why the victim, why twice the victim was wrong, the first time someone decided to kill that victim, and the second time someone decided to cover up and not sanction those who did it. Yes, indeed, it is our desire to give these victims the justice they deserve, which they did not receive and did not receive twice, during that regime that did so and during that regime that protected such perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54407	Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We'll listen to clubs first. On behalf of the club of independent representatives Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54408	Dear Madam Vice President. Gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, I will support this investigative committee. Perkovic, from the beginning, is not flowers. I've never met him, so we understand each other, but by my judgment, what I found out later was only there in the third, fourth, fifth echelon of the then UDBA. The decision to liquidate Đurekovic, an INA official, was made by the deceased... and by his Croatian counterpart, who is called me St. Spiljko, conspired Đurekovic. That's the point now. This was witnessed to me by the gentlemen who gave testimony to the Munich court, not to me, but to me they told me that we understood each other. But we're going in a row, I've quoted it once, so I'm going to do it one more time. DORH, the newspaper article okay, but your media. Yours, yours. He says, "DORH didn't find a cause for prosecution three times." The DORH said after the affair broke out that they were still in '97. in the year they rejected the criminal application of the security and information service of Nikola Štedul against Perkovic in connection with the murder of Stjepan Djurkovic, and that, following the request for international legal aid that came from Germany in 2005, they received copies of the German file in which they found no reason for a different decision from the one in '97. A year. Therefore, the trial of Krunoslav Prates in Germany was suspended until Vinko Sindičić, who after being sentenced to a public notary in Berlin, called off his testimony. Here's the evening, I can even say, Monday 26 August 2013. Imagine now the Croatian judiciary. What's he doing or the DORH? At the request of the SIS co-operated with very closely and many MPs from this home, your party president, who was at the head of the UNS or what was called, is initiating the procedure, and those from the DORH reject it. Okay, this isn't about... the verdict, it's just about that state's attorney's office's opinion. And what he's been trying to do all summer, across this right-hand side of the HDZ, is compromise the government to protect the refugees. None of the team in power has anything to do with UDBA but the ones on the right, Mr. Mlakar, they do. Half of the former ministers were in contact with Perkovic by the '90s. A year or before '90. A year. To be clear, those who acted after the '90s. And that's the point. Did you hear, for example? That Vice Vukojevic said one ugly word about Perkovic? You're not. But me, that's what I'm gonna say, don't worry about this commission. I'm in and out. For us to listen if it takes a hundred people who have in any way heard from the UDBA, to put it all in once ad act, to rehabilitate the innocent and to normally enable the Croatian judiciary, we will not judge, the commission will not judge the guilty. What bothers me is that we've been calling so much time that even in this case, okay, we'll honor the arrest warrant, judge only foreign courts. The visas of Croatian sovereignty, the visas of those 13-14 thousand people who have died visas of these values simply cannot be. They've got some cases of their own, from Hypo Bank, so let's just say the court. Yesterday we had one as we called it the Foreign Investment Act, and most of it here was normal for our people to do business on behalf of the government, say for foreigners, to privatize, for example, on behalf of the Government, and then, in companies, to be those same people as advisers. It's not for me because I see what's going on in Istria. And I'm afraid in such cases it's always possible to please someone. Most of it may be normal for PR agencies to launder money for Croatian highways, for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, for some Istrian firms. It just doesn't make sense to me. So, I advocate first of all that the Croatian courts judge, that even so, if it is possible to apostrophe this Croatian sovereignty, to send a clear message home in these areas, we decide to tell them what I know. If we can beat you in football, in water polo, in handball, let us conduct our own investigations on Croatian territory and conduct criminal proceedings. Trust us. If you don't, there's no problem. We will honor every European arrest warrant. To this day, from Europe, Croatia's path has reached about fifty, sixty of these European arrest warrants. To one other than this case, but this one would probably be respected if it didn't have an out-of-date institute. People are here, people are transferred under quotes, arrested. How do you say that? Transferred, arrested, I don't know now handed over to the Western judiciary. Now, let's see how they do it in Europe. A few times I've been quoting some newspaper articles, newspapers, never mind. Now, I used to quote "Evening List," now I'm going to refuse Germany's European arrest warrant for a Nazi criminal, a man who was also some camp manager. He says, however, the Dutch authorities did not give up. The new hope was given to them in 2002 by introducing a European arrest warrant. By means of this legal mechanism in 2003, they tried to give Faber, then the third on the list of most wanted Nazi criminals... He was the manager of some camp in the Netherlands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He says the transfer camp, but all those transferred through the camp ended or ended up or ended up in Auschwitz. Now let's move on. Austria refused to arrest former HGB-igrant Michael Golovat, wanted by Lithuania for assaulting a rtv tower in Vilnius in January 1991 when more than 600 people were killed and injured. Reding then explained that Austria did not have to carry out the arrest warrant because it only carries out arrest warrants after 2002. That's interesting, too. This is from "The New List," and now we have here from "The Morning List" too. The Germans don't want to hand over the accused Nazi, and they're looking for our fat man Perkovic. The former head of the SS in Denmark and today live in Bavaria despite evidence charged with killing newspaper editors in 1943. Here's the case of Germany. All right, now. This isn't a debate right now about some second-rate, third-rate comforter. This is among other things a debate on Croatian sovereignty. And finally Mr. Perkovic was appointed the late first president of the Croatian state, Mr. Tudjman and the first defence minister if I am not mistaken, Mr. Sušak. No Cain, no coat of arms, no Boro, we didn't name him. I don't think so. I've never seen Perkovic before in my life. I've never seen him! Saša yes, he is a decent man and does not deserve to be charged with politics in Croatia if this is the case. Let's not do that! Some people who were still in the Assembly today were headed by intelligence services in Croatia, there was war. Those services worked as well and less well and we all know it. And therefore, let us set up this commission, and let us choose the best amongst the quotes of ourselves who will shed light on the truth. In my opinion, there should be no one in this position, so let them all be of the opposition, and let them leave after what I know. So then there won't be either, then that investigative commission, the judiciary, will freeze, processing everyone who's bloodied their hands. So we won't judge anyone, the Croatian judiciary. Clearly, Croatia will not avoid and must not avoid this European arrest warrant, but Croatia had to go the other way towards amending the Constitution or go that it can judge all those who bloodied their hands and it does not matter whether it is the refugees who killed abroad or in Yugoslavia dissidents. Is it about those who killed the Yugoslav ambassadors or those who were after the 1990s, who have a conscience, for example, a little girl from the Rabbit family? For me, it's the same thing that matters first of all who ordered the murder? That's the key. Who? Who gave the order to do it or ordered it anyway? Whoever killed him shot with an axe massacred Djurekovic and why it was covered up. But when all of this was known who was in the 1990s, and it was important to protect and to place them on the highest political duty in the Republic of Croatia. Because at the time of the war being the head of the SIS, being the assistant defence minister was certainly one of the most important functions in the state of Croatia. Maybe I'm wrong, but that's my opinion. Well, I'm also interested in when everything was known, if it was true what the HDZ club was saying, let's go now and the DORH, why aren't killers meant to be in the early '90s, and why were they protected all this time? As much as I think that we will all agree and agree to vote the next day to simply support or allow the Croatian Commission of Investigation to come to some facts and I will do my best to suggest to you or to suggest a few of those who gave their statements to the German judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54409	Let's go to the replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54410	My colleague Cain, you use the newspapers and the media as Mr. Sanader in your defense in court. In fact, you said that Austria does not give Golovratov a clear story because I do not have much time, Germany has rejected the arrest warrant for a certain Faber and Soren Camp as you said, but you must know that no Parliament in the world has asked Germany and Austria for these people, and neither is the commission that the Parliament would set up from opposition to SDP but to be opposition members in the commission. Please, nice! So what are you talking about? And when ye have established a commission, let him and those who have an initiative set him up. But first of all, it's a matter of court. We've changed the so-called. Lex Perkovic, we're going to constitutional changes and the DORH has open hands to initiate the procedure. Why would the Parliament in the midst of this crisis, in the midst of this poverty, in the midst of these when I say it threatens dissatisfaction, when visible, smell in the air the dissatisfaction of the people to deal with something that was 40 years ago, 30, 40? So much more important things have a Croatian Parliament than whether to establish a commission and deal with something that, and we have DORH, we have USKOK, we have all the judicial institutions that need and have to deal with it. I'm not up for protecting a murderer but talking about jurisdiction. So it's not the Parliament that's setting up a commission. Well, you're telling the truth yourself. Now I've learned something from you that I didn't know. Well, you know everything, so the commission doesn't have to. You also told me about Prates, the Syndice, the Stallion of Dolanc, the Miki Cave, you told us everything. Why do we need a commission when you know everything? What do you need the commission for when you know everything? You said yourself you knew all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54411	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54412	Mr Grubisic, if the DORH will not do anything, if the courts will not do anything and then at least let the initiative be launched by a Croatian and parliamentary investigative committee whose head will be someone from the opposition because it is a legal obligation. ... Well, I won't be, I don't need to be. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What I know, what they told me was what I tried to bring out for the Assembly speaker. I can possibly suggest a few more people to you so if you'll listen to them, will you accept them under quotes to give their statement it'll be a matter of simple commission. But why the commission? So let's go if the DORH won't, if the courts won't judge us to try on some... The Parliament won't judge either, because we don't have that authority, but let's try to correct a historical injustice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] At least in that political sense, if possible. We're not bringing people back to life. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54413	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54414	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, your colleague Cain is entitled to use newspapers and news sources as your knowledge. But when you do, then you have no right to say what you said that no one in power has anything to do with UDBA. So here at this time in this replica, I'm just going to quote that lawsuit that was conducted against Radojcic, who was in the paper, so it's known that the intelligence link under the Yugoslav tutorage was at the centre of the Central Committee of the SK until the summer of '91. in the year, that Slavko Malobabic was the chief of cabinet Stojcevic, that he was an adviser to Ivica Racan and that the whole set there was stationed and worked and involved all those elements that fell apart in that collapse of Yugoslavia to work against Croatia. Therefore, such statements that it was, that no one has anything to do with it simply do not stand and cannot be claimed. On the other hand, I think you claim that it is a matter of sovereignty, but to accuse the HDZ and this party now that it is against it and the first thing that has done to the 2000 coalition has come to say that The Hague's jurisdiction is over Bled and Storm, and the Croatian side is in '99, that is, the Parliament has brought the Declaration to seek the UN court's testimony, so it does not refuse to cooperate, but is asking for an indication because it considered that the prosecution is only one party in the process. Therefore, things that are obvious and famous cannot be forgotten.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54415	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54416	Well, here's what's obvious and what we can obviously do to rebuild it through the Investigative Commission. But I say once again, gentlemen, that this generation of Croatian politicians who today are acting the most prominent duties in the country has nothing to do with UDBA. Well, they're boys and they're girls who were born after the '70s. What exactly are we talking about? But that half of the former ministers were in contact with Perkovic or his until '90s. I absolutely don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54417	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54418	I mean, I've been thinking for a long time whether to stay, give up this replica, but I don't know if it makes sense. Let Perkovic go according to the European arrest warrant and let him go... and he will certainly tell you who he was on the phone with, I guarantee you he will list the names of every HDZ minister he called and everyone else and who called him. Therefore, there is no need to be too afraid of it. The German court will determine who it was heard with, when and why and who it was on the line with, when, why and why. We don't need an investigative commission for that. As far as I can tell, you know, you've quoted us as Morning, but you're not Zarez and Venec yet, no matter what the sports news is. [[Agreement: Croatian letter.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54419	My colleague, and you're throwing yourself out of the bench just don't turn off your fellow Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54420	I know this replica doesn't make sense. I'm really trying to reason on a very sensitive subject to talk and replicate that we're talking about serious things in a serious way, not to quote a newspaper here, explaining who's heard from whom, we're throwing ourselves that someone's been talking to half the minister, and at the same time we're starting some kind of investigative commission that's going to go to Germany and determine the facts, to find clues to clarify who did what, or to deal with who was protecting who in 20 years? Well, colleague Cain, what are we talking about in Croatia at this time with these problems? I really think since you're so well-versed that you know more than half the witnesses. If this committee really votes, I think you're absolutely competent and I have full confidence in your objectivity, and I think it's enough for you to be alone in this committee to investigate and adopt all these facts. And don't throw away half of the former HDZ ministers. Don't talk about people like that. Where did you get this right?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54421	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, my colleagues, please. That's why there's a debate to report in the debate to report with a replica to respond to the replica. Please, colleague Klarin. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54422	Not half, maybe more than half. No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm gonna tell you the whole truth right now. I've never seen Mr. Perkovic in my life, I don't hold him, I don't let him go, but if someone let him go, then you let him go from the '90s to the 2000s. DORH or I don't know which institution, and I don't know from 2004 to 2011. What exactly are we discussing here? And only the commission has some legal logic, and if it's formed by that logic, we'll carry it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54423	Injury of Rules of Procedure Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54424	Dear Vice President Cain has injured Article 238. Well, please, sir, let's get these HDZ ministers to point out when he's so smart, he knows there were more than half of them. Let him choose to make them or apologize if I do not allow as former HDZ Minister to speak of us in any collectiveity system. We all have a name and a last name, and we're responsible for that point. I don't call Mr. Cain more than half of Istran or more than half of IDS or more than half of them I don't know what pears and apples are. Well, people are done with collective stories, it ended up in Europe in '45, so don't act like it, don't act like it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54425	You've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure you're talking to me about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54426	Do I make myself clear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54427	Yes, it is. But I don't think the Rules of Procedure got hurt. Since in the debate both sides often use what is not on the agenda, do not stick to the Rules of Procedure we have introduced a practice to tolerate all of this and I ask you nicely everyone who is here in the hall, there is not much, let us be patient to listen if we want to replicate, but let us not use each other hard words, let us not throw ourselves out of the bench. On behalf of SDP club colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54428	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When are parliamentary investigative committees in principle set up? That's what counterpart Boro Grubisic doesn't understand. They are then, in principle, founded when the state bodies that exist for it that are not established for it do not do their job. That's when parliament says we can't tolerate it, parliament will look into what's going on here. It's so in the whole democratic world. That's not what Croatia invented. Then this parliamentary commission directs the public's attention, sheds light on an event and leads to the fact that the persecution bodies can no longer remain silent. This has happened twice in Croatia so far. For the first time, it was one investigative committee that was the one about trucks, getting military equipment, I ran it, founded because for four years, the State's Attorney's office didn't lift a finger. Although the former president of the Republic, who, according to his description of his job as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, has insight into what is going on in the MRLs and in the military, even though the President of the Republic has repeatedly warned during the four years that crime took place there. The state's attorney's office was silent, and then we set up an investigative commission here. And when this investigative committee presented to the press and to the public evidence and when we brought witnesses, then the state's attorney started. Because after those testimony and after the documents we showed the public couldn't be kept quiet anymore. How did that result? With the indictment, the trial, the inadmissible verdict, the senior officer abolished that verdict and ordered a retrial to begin. So the state apparatus didn't want to work. To be clear, I'm not a fool, neither of us should be glad here that any state official from this country has fallen under prosecution. It's a shame, not his, all of us. And those who chose him on a responsible duty that he didn't know how to behave in a fair manner. The second example is INA. Nothing happened either. Until the investigation committee called Sanader to testify. And then Sanader said who under the other pit digs, he falls into it himself. He's the only one in that pit right now. But all his processes aren't over and we'll see if he's, we're not looking forward to it, we're gonna pull someone else into it. But the truth will be known, the painful truth, according to that inadequacy, the painful truth that someone for money, for dirty money, has handed over to the management of a foreign strategic Croatian company. It's not just a corrupt act, it's high treason, it's high treason. Now, why should this investigation committee be established? Among other things, because the bodies that were to do this were not working. That's the reason my colleague Jandrokovic is so amazingly surprised. That the aim of this investigation committee is to establish why the authorities of the countries that had to act did not act. But that's the point of an investigative committee, that's, that's a taste. The investigation committee is not a courtroom, it cannot judge anyone and parliament must not do so, it must do so by the judicial authority. But the investigating committee must answer the question why the state authorities did not react when they needed to react. Was the man killed? Well, he was killed. So did someone kill him? So if he didn't kill himself, then someone else killed him? So does the state bodies have to question it? Well, they have to. So why didn't they do it? Well, let's find out now. Now let's find out. Another important reason why this investigative commission should be established is true. The truth needs to be established. And who's afraid of the truth? Who doesn't like the truth? Who keeps turning truth into deception, into a naked lie? Who has been poisoning water in the well for years that many drink from? On 1 October of this year, when we discussed the law, the proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on Cooperation in Judicial Matters with the countries of the European Union, Col. Mlakar said here in front of all of us, listen to me, my colleague Mesic, the government protects the refugees, the murderers and those who participated, so it would be said even in the terror of the state against its own citizens. The government is protecting the murderers, that's what Collar's colleague said. You who here today rightly object not to condemn the collectiveities and that Cain is wrong when he says that more than half of the HDZ ministers of the government were in contact with the refugees. I didn't hear you replicated that time. You usually like to replicate your representative at the HDZ Club. I didn't hear you stand up and say, slowly, colleague Mlakar, you can't talk about a government like that. It is the Croatian Government, and when you say that the Croatian government protects murderers, you insult that government, insult all those who have chosen this government, insult your country and insult this Parliament, I have not heard you fellow. And I'd rather believe you today if you'd responded then. However, Parliament's vice-president warned his colleague, Mlakar, instead of you. And he replied to it, and I quote, "Mrs. Vice President, if you didn't find it appropriate to warn Vice President Stazic about the content and manner of his speech, and there was reason to intervene from the record table, then don't even salt our brains.". But you need to salt your brains. And we're going to do it by watching that we don't salt it. Why was I supposed to be warned? Because I said that in Croatia trials are being conducted against the people who robbed this country and against the party who has been accused of it. I told the naked truth. And why should I be warned about what I said about the fact? Because of these permanent verbal... that the SDP and the SDP government are protecting murderers and the refugees must be determined the truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's go back to the '90s, first President Tudjman led one policy of reconciliation of left and right elements. And it must be admitted to him. A confusing idea of Jasenovac as a place where everyone who fell for Croatia should be symbolically reconciled regardless of which side they were on and that all should be raised by one monument has never been realized. If Col. Mlakar had said before Tudjman in the 1990s that SDP was protecting murderers, he would probably have kicked him out of HDZ, most likely because such a shameful statement was not the mark of President Tudjman and it should not have been the mark of any honest party in Croatia. Why do you get '90s? She didn't have a lustration over members of the communist repressive apparatus? I don't know, I can only assume like Cain, that then HDZ would have to lustrate a large part of its members so he wouldn't get into it. What's wrong with HDZ? One of the goals is why no investigation into this murder has been conducted, but why HDZ is afraid of it is incomprehensible to me. Who in the 1990s accepted not all colleagues of Tudjman, but at least some members of the Yugoslav intelligence service from Croatia and brought them into political life. Well, it's no secret. When it is determined then colleagues Mlakar and HDZ will no longer be able to repeat the same mantra, they will not be able to. Is there a public interest here? ... doubts it exists. In the fact that bribery stops, that in this society, this country starts talking about more important and more important things, that we will never have to listen again to one party protect murderers, that's the public interest. I simply cannot imagine that someone in this House could be opposed to this commission being established and meeting the objectives for which it is established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54429	Now we'll listen to the replicas. Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54430	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's what I'm going to do with something we agree with, with what my colleague Stazic said. So he says when bodies do not function, parliament reacts and establishes a commission. That's right. Parliament and the public will force the bodies of persecution and they can no longer remain silent and that is correct. However, the situation here is a different colleague of Stazic's. You reacted as a party, as individuals, when a European arrest warrant was to be activated and when this man, this person, the suspect, should end up in front of justice. So in this case the persecution bodies started to do their job and then you're a whole series of political maneuvers, since the change of the Constitution through the establishment of this commission actually wanted to make it impossible to determine the truth because the court would determine the truth. I believe the court in Germany, you believe the court here in Zagreb because you do not recognise a European arrest warrant. This is your problem, it is a question of your understanding of the European arrest warrant, of the European Union and of judicial cooperation within the Union and of the Member States themselves. So my message to you is that this commission, unlike some others who may have justified their meaning and who have been founded to determine the truth because the persecution bodies have not done their job, is in this case exactly the opposite. When the persecution bodies began to do their job, when the suspect was due to end up in court, so when he probably talked and about whether he was personally connected and told the orderlies then the entire SDP-led operation was on the move. So this commission is part of this operation, one leg is going towards the change of the Constitution, and the other is this commission. So you're not interested in clearing up here, clearing up the water, your interest here is to cloud the water and it's recognised.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54431	Thank you very much. Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54432	First, my colleague Jandrokovic, I do not live in Germany but in Croatia and for me are the very important bodies of the Republic of Croatia, the bodies of persecution, the judicial bodies, I value them more than German. You might appreciate German courts more, I don't. Secondly, we recognise the arrest warrant and it will apply, so the whole ghoul over that we are against the arrest warrant has fallen into the water by agreement between the two ministers, i.e. by the agreement of the Minister and the representative of the European Commission and the arrest warrant will apply most normally. The third thing, unlike you, is that in constitutional changes, we end the statute of limitations so that murderers, especially those who have committed qualified murders finally come to justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54433	Which is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54434	Article 238 was injured because by his conduct, the representative deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly, not telling the truth. ... /The noise in the hall./... Excuse me, Vice President of the Parliament. I'd like to talk to the argument. You said unlike you, we want the Constitution to enter that there is no age for murder. So HDZ put forward a proposal for its constitutional changes in which it makes it clear that it also supports abolishing the age of serious crimes. So here, a representative consciously, deliberately does not tell the truth, to say the least, and I believe that this is a violation of Article 238, and that he deserves a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54435	And I'm telling you that it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure or a violation of that article because you also told him that one party does not recognise a European arrest warrant. So you have the same criteria. No injured Rules of Procedure. Comrade Jasen Mesic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54436	Dear Vice President, and I would have believed you more if I had seen from the committee on Victor Lenac, let's say the results were just said I don't remember anything, so it all ended. It would have been good if it had been a commission now for the Center Bank, and that would have been a very good, very good commission. But I would even more believe that we made a commission this before we got into trouble with the European Community and did the Law on the Application of Orders, the European Arrest Order. If this had happened a year ago this initiative then I would have believed it in principle. I don't believe it today because there's been a post-festum of the whole issue of applying a European arrest warrant. And I'm really against generalization, I've always been and in principle say that I really don't believe today that this commission really has something to determine. If it had been a year ago, if it had been before the whole thing, I would have believed this situation with a European arrest warrant. Not like this. This is because it appeared after the whole story of negotiations with the European Community, changing deadlines, twice amending the law. And it means why I've replicated to Mr. Cain because it's already enough, because it's really enough to kind of be called out all the time. But all of this can be done and all of this will be determined through court proceedings either in Germany, or in Croatia, and that will be the best truth. Much better than any commission can determine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54437	Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54438	When I saw you raising my line while I was talking, I was happy not only that you were personally nice to me, but that I believed you would give an explanation for why you didn't react when a colleague of the Mlakar was so rudely offended by the whole party. If you weren't in the hall, then you were told. But I expected it to be the contents of your replica. But here I helped at least to justify you a little bit in front of the public. I work here with you and my favorite. You're saying you'd believe me more if I ever had a commission investigated for Victor Lenac. You weren't then, you were too young maybe, you weren't a representative then for sure. That commission was founded. He was led by Branimir Glavas, then a member of the HDZ, and that commission questioned everything. And you know what conclusion it came to? That there was no crime there. And all the material was directed to the State's Attorney's Office. Therefore, it is also a commission and should be established. If there was a suspicion among MPs at that time that some crime had been committed there, and the state bodies were not working, then it was justified to establish an investigative commission. And it was founded, led by HDZ and established the truth -- there was no crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54439	With one correction from his colleagues, Anto Djapic led him. Vladimir Shakespeare, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54440	So, fellow Stazic, you're saying that you're referring to the alleged representative of the Mlakar in one of the replicas in which the law on judicial co-operation or the European arrest warrant said that he accused the government of protecting the murders. And you resented him very much. And how do you link such a great grudge that you have sent to your colleague, Mlakar, with a statement from your party president and our Prime Minister Milanovic, that he who opposes constitutional changes to protect murderers and murders. Is that a little bit, you'll probably explain it in the replica very conveniently. Secondly, you said between today and today that the investigative committees of parliament are set up when investigative bodies and judicial and other bodies are not doing their job. So do you see that in a concrete case that on two occasions there were two criminal charges, one which a group of representatives, a group of SIS members submitted, another which he submitted to Štdul DORH and for the examination of all the circumstances related to the murder of Đurekovic both the employers, the perpetrators and all the gatherings. So, if the DORH based, after criminal processing, has conducted all possible reconnaissances and all together, it means that in contrast with the request for the establishment of an investigative commission, it is necessary to establish an investigative commission because, in this particular case, the investigating bodies have not done their job. And third, finally only at the end of how the President of the Croatian Parliament Josip Leko called the idea of setting up this investigation committee with nonsense. [[Invader Zgrebec: Answer, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54441	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54442	Well, I'll start at the end. Your colleague Leko will be here tomorrow, so ask him. Second, I'm heading towards the middle of your replica. I don't know that S.H.I.E.L.D. filed any criminal charges. I didn't deal with that question at all. But let's set up an investigative committee to determine who filed the criminal charges, when he filed them, why the State's Attorney's office didn't react to that, whether or not he rejected that criminal charges, if he had any opinions about it. Well, that's the point of that commission. And now I'm going back to the beginning. The Prime Minister's statement of constitutional change is logical. Constitutional changes require the constitutional changes we propose to abolish the age of severe homicides. One who will not vote for constitutional changes will allow these murderers to remain obsolete and those acts fall into obsolescence. That's logical, there's nothing more logical than that. Thus, his statement to me is completely understandable and welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54443	Ante Kulusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54444	Indeed, in these five years, anything can be experienced in the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice President. It'll make you a little louder! I say that in these five years since I've been sitting here, six, that anything can be experienced in the Croatian Parliament but the way you accuse and spit on HDZ is unremembered. These thieves, criminals, a criminal organization without a trial being completed. And now imagine to us a moralized person who bathed with several individuals for 7 kunas on Brijuni. Let's start a commission for that. Not all SDPs bathed for 7 kuna. What kind of man would I be if I said you're all taking a bath for 7 kuna? Let's start a commission and see who's bathing and how he bathes. And now this person is moralizing and is the highest moral authority in the Croatian Parliament. Well, that's outrageous! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54445	Replic response, Nenad Stazic Miroslav Tudjman, replica. [[Intruder: He didn't lift.]] [[Intruder Stazic: I admit I did not.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54446	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In his debate, Coli Stazic said that the plantings stop, and then he generalised one side and said that this party is a party that protects or contests the thesis that it cannot be said that the coalition or SDP is a party that protects the murderers, which is attributed to his colleague, Mlakar. And he forgets that he said what I then replicated that all the comforters in HDZ were because it was generalization. However, what I was actually going to say here is the same generalization and planting by discussing the lustration and why it did not occur, however, he says he did not know why it did not come, but that HDZ would have to lustrate a large number of its members. What about the SDP? SKH withdrawal SDP was until '93. A year. So that wouldn't be chandelier? The SKH withdrawal Party of Democratic Change, the name was changed in '93. years as far as I know. And on the other hand these members, the communists who were here in '90. Look, colleague Cain will probably do it with pleasure, how many years they spent in prison and were members of the SKH before that, and not after that. So these black and white images simply don't work, and that's something we should get rid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54447	And now the answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54448	First facts, '90s. the year SKH-SDP, and the year '93. The SDP Party of Democratic Change. So, look, these are facts. The other thing is, I personally have no problem with it and I have never been a member of the Communist Union. To me, SDP is the first party. But don't deny your colleague Tudjman the fact that a large number of members of the SKH then went to HDZ. Well, let them cross over, so I don't mind if they cross over. But let's not put it under the carpet now, let's not admit it. And third, I admit I'm out of line. I said all the bailiffs went to HDZ, I went too far. I've made amends today, I said probably not all of them but some have and it's impossible to deny. You accepted them, you hired them, you assigned them. And what can I do? Maybe you didn't make a mistake. Maybe President Tudjman didn't make a mistake. It's hard for me to judge. I don't understand any of this spy stuff to you at all, but maybe it was necessary to do that. Maybe no one else would know the job, so he had to reach out to these. But let us not now claim that it was not and let us not be afraid of the investigative commission that will determine it. Who you took, why you took it, what jobs he got, how he did it. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54449	Can we continue our colleague, Shakespeare? On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Davorin Mlakar. ... I can't give him a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54450	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let me congratulate 19.20 on all the Croatian public who is particularly interested in this topic and our colleagues from the SDP say so, because that is why we need an investigative commission we decided at half past seven when we were already tired of discussing this item of the agenda. Of course there's no transmission, there's less and less of them so the public knows less and less what we're talking about here. Congratulations to you, Vice President, too, I'm gonna need you to make an effort to draw my quotes. Too bad you didn't take any more. I think I've had a better discussion than what you've managed to get out of my replicas. But you didn't discourage me from saying what I was going to say, and if you need me, I'll do it again. And you won't if the Mlakarian approach as you said using the opportunity while I was away in the assembly I'll answer you that your style and excessively aggressive and I won't continue speaking on behalf of the club to speak to you personally or colleagues of Cain even though speaking for the club might be the point of view of your entire club I had so to say the impression that it was your personal frustration and impatience or disagreement with my views. What I mean to say on behalf of the club without personal consideration to any of you is what our club thinks happened in this whole topic. This is the third act of a legislative tragedy that began with amendments to the Law on judicial co-operation in criminal matters with EU countries. And the whole process started at 6 months in the 6th month we said it wasn't a smart way the government decided to play international commitments. You didn't believe it until you received clear pucks from the European Commission to say that what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing is not good, and then after that, you came to a change of that law. The second act is an amendment to the Constitution, which was also organised by a group of representatives of the SDP, and unfortunately I must say that you were unable to speak those eight words, the eight words that need to be written correctly for eight weeks in order to be at all similar to the debate on constitutional changes because in those eight words you stated that a criminal act would be entered into the Constitution that does not exist in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia. There is no criminal act as you have called it in the Penal Code, so it cannot even be in the Constitution in order to apply the provision of such offences. But it's a professional remark that you don't have to trust, maybe it's just good for our public to say. And what you said, I believe wrongly, is the fact that what we were talking about is to allow the procession to be allowed so far-fetched as to say "sugar" again, and that this could only happen to change the Constitution is not true. In a specific case today, which we are talking about establishing an investigative commission for the murder of Mr. Stjepan Đurekovic, representing the age of 40 years since the murder was committed. The murder was committed in 1983, calculate for yourself when the statute of limitations will take place. Therefore, the fat still has time for this process without changing the constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but it is because of the facts. What we talked about when you included in the agenda are the reasons why, however you advocate to establish an investigative commission, although here I have noticed your contradiction. On the one hand, you believe in the Croatian judiciary, believe in our institutions, and on the other hand you say those institutions did not work, so Parliament will establish an investigative commission. In all of this you missed to read, you quoted something, Article 4. The law on investigating committees, what would be said to be a special law lex specialis for investigative committees, and it reads: "The investigation committee cannot be founded on the issues on which the court proceedings have been initiated so long as the proceedings are pending." My colleague Grbin talked about it and he said exactly, in Croatia the procedure does not run, in Croatia was launched and suspended and I do not know what happened to the procedure, the procedure is pending before the German court. Since 1.7, it may be trivial to mention this, we are a member of one of the 28 EU member states, among other things, we have taken over the acquis of the same Union, we have taken on the obligations we must adhere to, and among other things, respecting the arrest warrant. And there's a procedure going on. And you've already received a request for a certain person to be handed over to the German court because of the need for this procedure, but you answered no, first we had a blockade because of that deadline in 2002, now we're trying to get out of trouble with the constitutional changes. For this change procedure, the Constitution is not necessary, but you need a more complicated situation by establishing an investigative commission which, under our law, this Parliament is supposed to adhere to, cannot be established while this process is under way. You have often touched logic and logical thinking in your discussions. Our law does not say that the procedure must be conducted in the Republic of Croatia in order for it to be an obstacle to the establishment of an investigative commission. On the other hand, we have heard so much knowledge and knowledge that individual parliamentary representatives have that we really may not need an investigative commission because some know most or almost everything. And finally, as far as the investigative committee is concerned, you were talking about two examples, one seems to me because of 2003 when the privatisation of INA happened and the other was a few years later you said you thought the affair of Trucks was colloctially called. The murder of Mr Đurekovic took place in 1983, the investigation was conducted by the German judicial authorities, something likely on request and ours. All documents, statements, witnesses, experts, material evidence is in front of the German court and you think that instead of completing this process, it will be better done by the investigative committee of our Parliament, especially given the fact that we have experience in how you interpret certain laws and even this particular one on investigative committees? Now that's why we claim that this case does not require an investigative commission. There is also a follow-up, if an investigative committee is already in place, then not for one particular particular case that you say the public is interested in killing a particular person. We have proposed to you, to establish an investigative commission, to investigate all the crimes of totalitarian regimes of those who, murders if you will and torture the facts and crimes of torture that seemed to be in the name of any ideology. We are for that, but that's not what you suggested. And you didn't even propose to investigate any facts about Mr. Perkovic by which this law unfortunately got his name, but now you've turned it into an investigation into the murder of Stjepan Đurekovic. I'll say it again. It happened 30 years ago. Today, it is expected that parliamentarians will succeed in doing better, thorough, better quality, more investigative, investigative and evidence proceedings than the judicial authorities of any state are ridiculous. That's funny and you're the only one who doesn't know how to get out of this situation. So you found a way, today to focus on me. I'm grateful for that. I'm still standing by the claim I made in the replica and not taking out the views of my club I was careful not to say there what the whole club thinks. And when I get a chance to speak for myself, then I'll try to explain again why I think this exhibition is the idea of protecting someone who's already supposed to be extradited to the judicial bodies of a particular country. The civilization reach of our country has been entered into the European Union. Unfortunately, that's not enough. And if you have such noble intentions as you have spoken of, then I see no reason why by entering the Union you do not want to honor what our obligations are. It is not even clear to you that for one article of the law, and it takes three months for this law to come into force. Whenever we asked why there was no answer to such a provision. No one has ever answered before the government or the parliamentary majority why a single law containing an article other than the provision to be published in the National Journal takes three months to come into force. Except for the Minister's easy answer that they agreed on it. That's why you see we think there are intentions that have not been made when these laws are spoken of. And to conclude, in order to process a specific person in this case for which there is a European arrest warrant, you do not need to change the Constitution because for this act of limitations it did not occur when you are already entering into interpretation of the statutes of limitations. The statute of limitations under Croatian criminal law is 40 years old. Therefore, the Constitution should not have changed, and it would have been much better if we never changed it for such reasons. And our position has been from the very beginning and from the problem with the European arrest warrant, yes, to advocate that all those who have committed crimes regardless of the name of the authorities in the courts. Whether in this case it will be before a Croatian court or German, I think it is less important than the fact that justice should be reached by all those who deserve to be tried for the misdemeanors they have committed. And that was a motive for why we performed the same way in all three cases. Both the Law on Judicial Cooperation and the Amendments to the Constitution and now that you are proposing the establishment of an investigative commission. And thank you for that. The investigation committee, we have read when to be established, when to be established, but it is probably the most important to establish with that when to have a specific purpose. An investigative commission that would take over the judicial duties of the courts in criminal proceedings, 30 years after the day of the crime, is a nonsense which your colleagues have well warned you not to do. Unfortunately, however, as always, our reasons are not enough for you to give up such predetermined goals. Well, that's probably why you're gonna start this commission that doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54451	We're moving on to replicas. Vice President Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54452	Comrade Mlakar, you have well said that here is this investigative committee that the proposings are proposing to establish, that they may have changed the name of this investigative committee, which would determine the facts relating to all the murders of the former state. In this way, as this investigation committee has been proposed, what we know is that what we all in Croatia know is that during the former Yugoslavia, it was actually the most difficult, the most difficult killings of non-insects around the world. I would also accept that one of the proposings might remember that one of them suggested that Perkovic go to Germany and say, it's okay, here Perkovic goes to Germany to prove his innocence. And we remember those times when our generals were supposed to go to The Hague that everyone, as a band of generals, had to go to The Hague, had to prove their innocence. And now when communist crimes are to be proven and from the time communists committed crimes all over the world, now you're all silent and you're proposing an investigative committee to which you want to cloud that fact that killings have been committed around the world on behalf of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54453	You didn't answer. Vice President Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54454	You say colleague Mlakar, the belief that the investigative commission will do better than the investigative and judicial authorities is pointless. That's the line I heard at least a hundred times when we set up an investigation committee on trucks and INAs. As you have opportunities to convince yourself, this faith was not meaningless, it had its own deep meaning. You suggest establishing an investigative commission for all killings of totalitarian regimes, so I haven't heard anything more pointless than that. So how many years of research commissions would have to work and what results hundreds of cases could have come after years of testing. And third and most importantly, the Constitution doesn't change because of Perkovic or because of him, this cooperation law is changed, and if it's true, and I believe you, you're a lawyer, and I'm sure you know it better than I do. If it is true that the crime did not fall into stalemate, that the murder did not fall into stalemate after January 1st, Perkovic will be extradited by arrest warrant. Just Mr. Mlakar, I won't shed one tear for it, no one here from the SDP. So why do we care about Perkovic, so it's not us who might get hit by it. If such a warrant is a warrant, if such a request comes, if there is no statute of limitations, Perkovic goes to Germany. We are just not so ready and we are not in a hurry and we are not glad that Croatian citizens, generals, menerals, whoever they are, are extradited to foreign courts as HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54455	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54456	Mr. Stazic, it would be good to confirm in your actions that you are not professional for something, but you insist on even creating legal norms because you think something is better or worse. You don't have to believe my assessment that the statute of limitations didn't come into play for this act, but you didn't answer me, you're talking about a specific person again, if the law had come into force within eight days, that the laws were normally in force, you'd already respect the arrest warrant and you'd hand the gentleman in question to the German court. It would take us a long way in these replicas if I were to now interpret what else is written in the framework decision when the domestic court will refuse when it can and when it must refuse the extradition of the person in our territory to a foreign court. I'm in favour of judging Croatian courts, just not that when there is a commitment that we've already made, when we're in an association of states where we have to act in accordance with the rules that we've signed to stick to, to play. And I really don't think that I need to tell you, too, that three days before you entered the European Union, you've changed this law, instead of many laws that, within the justice system from the Judiciary Academy, should change to the State Judiciary Council, you've found this one to change, and you're surprised at me. Neither will I poster for Perkovic nor anyone else who will be extradited for testimony or punishment for certain crimes, but I also showed it in my performances and therefore I said that in this way how the government behaves cannot address anyone else because as far as I am directed by the government, the government is protecting them from extradition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54457	Thank you very much. You're also a lawyer, you seem to be a lawyer, you know that the court does that, and neither the government nor the Parliament, the decision to extradite. Comrade Jandroković, here you go. ... You said we didn't want to extradite. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54458	Madam Vice President, here, I'll explain if it's not clear. So the government and the Parliament are making it difficult...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54459	Don't explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54460	Well, here in that replica, then I'll use it to explain that Madam Vice President thinks you said that the government is also deciding. No, that's what the court decides, you know very well, but the government and the Parliament are making such acts that make it difficult for the court to make the only right decision. I answered the line to say that one part of your statement agrees, with the other part not, that the ruling did not explain why 1.1.2014. The truth is, the minister said they had agreed so, but on several occasions, his colleague Grbin made it very clear that he wants to judge the gentleman as well as everyone else in Croatia. So it is clear that the intention is also to change the Constitution and about this commission, at all costs to prevent the extradition of the refugees to Germany and unfortunately, works speak much more than words. Thus, in this case it is clear intent, it is clear that attempts are made to make sure that Mr Perkovic, on arrest warrant, does not end in Germany. So a colleague of the coat of arms has repeatedly made very explicit statements and said so. And another thing, colleague Mlakar, you've done well in apostrophe to the sense of a European arrest warrant. When fellow Stazic says on behalf of the club when the bodies do not function, then parliament must react and establish a commission. The bodies of persecution will react under pressure, and at the same time I am told that I trust German courts more than Croatian. So I trust Croatian courts, but I do not want the government and parliament to interfere in the work of the court to interfere with his work, the work of the court and the decision-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54461	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54462	Thank you very much. Now I've been given the opportunity to explain my statement. I thought she was clear enough. Therefore, the government is proposing a law to this House of the High to be voted upon by a number of votes of its MPs, and such a regulation will be an obligation to all. And according to that regulation, the judicial authorities will also have to act. I will not go back to the discussion when I have spoken you free the judicial authorities of this political dictatorship of the government and parliament and let them do their job within the framework of judicial cooperation as it is meant and how it is actually realised in the EU documents that we have approached. But it's already too difficult for Mr. Stazic to have the will, desire and patience to listen to it, so he said everything he had to say. I am honored to have repeatedly apostropheed my speeches, and I will try to speak as clearly as possible that perhaps one day eventually Mr. Stazic understands what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54463	Comrade Jasen Mesic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54464	Dear colleague Mlakar, you have given one review of all that is related before this proposal on the establishment of this commission has been done and is aimed at doing so. However, you also made a proposal not to limit this commission to an explicit case, because as far as you're legal, I'm not a lawyer, but I believe you, well explained that this particular case is not obsolete. But that the commission might make sense to work on all other cases that occurred within the totalitarian system when people in the name of ideology were killed. Why won't that be accepted? If we care as the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms says, if we really care to establish the truth, to really see maybe and who was protecting them, why was it done, by whose direction and who was protecting them and who was behind it all. Then we'd find out the real truth, get a broad picture, not like this in this particular way you say we can solve it because it didn't even go into obsolescence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54465	Then, fellow Mesic, submit the amendments. It's still a debate, and we'll discuss it. Replication response, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54466	Comrade Mesic, you have touched what unfortunately ruling won't, most often they say they don't understand anything. Then they don't understand what we said, so they didn't understand why we said it like we said. Yes, our proposal was, although it is always subject to cartoons every proposal, so Mr. Stazic then went into the past 400 years of totalitarian regimes. I don't know which one he meant, but we were talking about crimes that seemed on behalf of a particular ideology or on behalf of a particular state policy. That's what we were talking about. That's also what he missed understanding the Vice President of the Parliament, unfortunately. But we have patience, so we'll try to repeat our weights and suggest again to the ruling ones. You did not even put it to be an investigative committee for Mr. Josip Perkovic to investigate all the circumstances of the case but for the murder of Stjepan Đurekovic. I'm afraid I'm not any criminal right lawyer at all to be involved, but I'm afraid of the shame this House brings on itself when it comes to society as a whole, towards the International Community with a decision to establish a body that will determine all the circumstances of a serious murder that took place 30 years ago on the territory of another country. Well, that's out of your mind. I was the only one who tried to make the point unlike Mr. Stazic decent, so I didn't choose the hard words. Which one of you thinks 15 or 7 or 9 MPs will be able to determine the facts of that case better than any court I bow to him to the black country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54467	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54468	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Mlakar, you have stated in your statement that the Law establishing the investigative committees of Article 4 provides that if an appropriate procedure is to be conducted with the judicial authorities that is not permitted, it is prohibited, or how the formulation in the law is to establish an investigative commission. Now aside from the fact that in the German judiciary, the SDP club is led by a proper procedure is not an obstacle to establishing an investigative commission in the Croatian Parliament. But I am interested in one other thing, and the European arrest warrant comes into force on 1 January in the section relating to this subject, which is in this case, a decision on the establishment of an investigative commission. We know already now, we all parliamentary deputies do not need to be lawyers, nor do we know that the Croatian judiciary will open proceedings on January 1st following this European arrest warrant. We therefore know that a judicial procedure will be conducted in the Croatian judiciary for this case. And is that the fact that we know today that this process will be conducted should be a clear signal that we do not open this commission, that we do not set it up, because I guess when that procedure opens in the Croatian judiciary, we will have to stop this case. The fact that this procedure will be conducted only because of antiquity or because of something else I do not know, but the fact is that the entire Croatian public and all MPs know that on January 1st of this case in the Croatian judiciary and not anywhere else, but at the County Court in Zagreb will open proceedings on the European arrest warrant of the moment when the Minister of Justice is sent to the European Court of Justice by a European arrest warrant. And is that a reason enough for us to just because of that fact not to establish this investigative commission? I don't know I'm not a lawyer, but the fact is that this investigative commission will need to be stopped on January 1st if it is established that it should be stopped with its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54469	Thank you very much. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54470	You asked a great question, but I think you can only answer Vice President Stazic who has so heartily defended these positions. I'd like that, maybe, no colleagues, maybe there's something else to say about that. The Croatian judiciary has in some ways already had a procedure because as far as we are informed, it has received a European arrest warrant. He allegedly did not reach the courts but was stopped in that office that exists by a framework decision and was returned to Germany with an explanation that the law prevents us from handing over the person. This could also be considered a permanent judicial procedure, and it is absolutely certain that any other procedure that is being initiated with regard to this case in Croatia, let's say someone remembers that they might once again investigate this work will lead to the suspension of the work of this commission. But I would even say that regardless of whether it makes sense to speak more quietly, louder, or perhaps kneel before the promoters. I think it makes no sense that anyone could think except for Vice President Stazic who solved the case of trucks that the assembly group of MPs would better solve one serious murder offense with all the consequences, the hearings of witnesses, suspects, carrying out evidence, material evidence that it could make a group of MPs better than any court. That's why I think this is here I'm going to allow myself that word even if I get a perverse ruling notice. But we're staying, I think most of it is. It might be because of Parliament's integrity that we should give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54471	We have another individual discussion. Comrade Miroslav Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54472	Thank you, Madam Vice President. At first, I want to say that I, like the HDZ Club, have nothing against it, or thinks that all crimes should be condemned. Especially the crimes of totalitarian systems. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Make sure your colleagues finish the debate in peace.]] And that's not the problem. Therefore, here is a dispute over this proposal whether only one case will be investigated, or whether we will go to the assessment of the situation of the 60s or 80 killings of Croats that have occurred in the last 30 years of the Socialist Yugoslavia. Therefore, the question has been raised here, even counterpart Grbin said it was a matter of truth, counterpart Stazic said who is afraid of the truth. And then the whole procedure gets twisted and wants to generalise on one case, namely the truth. It is said, it seems to me that colleague Cain has told me who knows everything that Perkovic is some kind of fourth level in responsibility. What about level three, what about level two, what about level one? Mr. Stazic's explanation was so we can't deal with a hundred cases, how long would it take? But then there's a contradiction because it's not the Parliament that determines responsibility and that it judges but that it determines how it worked. And we need that knowledge, that insight, which is precisely why not even the victims themselves, because the perpetrators are most likely dead because of this long period of time. And so are the employers. On the other hand, if we want to find out the whole picture, then we ask the question of the employers. We've heard a lot of things here, so it's been said several times that no one in power has anything to do with UDBA. UDBA is used peoratically for all members of the intelligence service. It's thought to be said to be in actual power. A man really needs to have a brief mind so he reminds you to ask what happened to Budimir Loncar, who was head of the SID, Information and Documentation Service in Belgrade? It was left and today is today if I am not mistaken for the President of the Council for Foreign Policy of the President of the Republic. What about all those people who were excluded from UDBA in the '90s, and in 2000 were returned to the heads of individual centres from Split to Zagreb? So this kind of flat-rate thing really doesn't make any sense. On the other hand, you have another problem. He says who's afraid of the truth. Researchers, historians cannot obtain material, the minutes of the Republic Committee on General People's Defence and Social Protection, bodies at that level of decision on how to act and who will be eliminated, because that documentation is placed in the Central Committee of the SKH documentation and, by decision of that committee or by the SDP follower, is prohibited from any access to it. So, if we're going to open this question, then all these things should be opened and evaluated for why and how and who's afraid of the truth and why. What exactly is the key to the problem and the key to the misunderstanding? Why is it insisted that only one case be investigated, not all cases and not the whole system how it worked? Because what my colleague Stazic opened could then raise the issue of lustration and see why the lustration was not carried out, or if it was not implemented then why not now. And that is why, or today, the parliamentary majority does not want to agree to the formulation of crimes in totalitarian communist regimes or in totalitarian regimes, including the communist and clear matter not only of them but also of others. And I even said there that this formula that is proposed doesn't include crimes that seem from other motives, and we shouldn't be obsessing. Therefore, this is also the same reason why it wants to come to an individual case here, not to bring insight and evaluation into the mechanism of how this totalitarian system worked and to see who is the employer, who is the first, second level rather than going to the fourth and fifth levels of decision-making. I don't think it really makes sense to participate in this committee if it's just about one case. If it is related to the overall picture of this system's research to make one historical assessment, that would be followed even if you want legal bases so that victims of that system could seek satisfaction, it makes sense and I'm saying that most of these perpetrators and employers are no longer living. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54473	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision tomorrow. And now our colleagues and colleagues are going to finish today's work, and tomorrow we're going to start voting on the debated points. Session interrupted at 19.55 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-24-0.u54474	Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission for the determination of facts related to the murder of Stjepan Đurekovic. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee. To accept this decision, most of the total number of all MPs is required, so I would like to make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision has been made by a majority of votes, 81 votes for and 12 abstentions as proposed by the applicant. Proposal for a candidate for a selection of Commissioners for Information. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the right to access information, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, submitted a proposal for candidates to elect the Commissioners for Information. Does the Committee's representative want to take it, give a reason? Yeah. Here's your esteemed colleague, Peja Grbin.
