ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30102	I thank Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning, my pleasure to be in the Croatian Parliament. Let me present to you a plan to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2013 which is slightly different and you will also see on schedule at first sight, a little uneven compared to what we represented, or what was done in previous years. The reason for this is the fact that this plan was made with the assumption of Croatian entry into the European Union on 1 July this year. We therefore have one part of the obligations relating to harmonisation of legislation so that it can function normally in the framework of the European Union as a Member State as from 1 July. The Republic of Croatia is in many ways in this process of negotiations as you know, as many of you have participated indirectly and directly in this whole process. A process of joining the European Union has passed other than any of us. And among other things, in many things where we were first in the accession process, we were first in that we were the first country to have a monitoring or monitoring mechanism in the period between closing negotiations 30.6. 2011 and the entry into the European Union in full membership 1.7.2013 The reasons for this monitoring were to say fully, but to be decent to most outside of us, i.e. they were the result of the learning of European institutions from previous enlargement processes and certain criticisms that both the European Union institutions and the Member States experienced because of these enlargements. And to ensure that Croatia is fully prepared for membership, i.e. to function as a Member State from the date of entry, a monitoring mechanism has been introduced after the negotiations are closed. Under this mechanism we have had, or will have a total of 3 monitoring reports. We've had two so far and a third one will be published, it's published by the Commission under the leadership of Enlargement Commissioners, but actually by the decision of the College of Commissioners, so the commission. We will have the latest monitoring report, which will be published on March 21st, so it is announced. We had an obligation to submit all information on the basis of which this report will be made by 31 January and, as you remember in the second monitoring report from October last year, it explicitly lists 10 points on which the Commission will be particularly focused and directly measuring Croatia's readiness and ability to meet its commitments and to function within European institutions. We have these 10 points in those forms in which they have fulfilled them. However, outside these 10 points it is clear that the ability and ability to integrate and start to implement European legislation of the European Directive within the framework of the Croatian legal norms is a continuous permanent obligation, so this is not particularly highlighted in the Monitoring report but it is clear that this is, in some way, a prerequisite for everything else, so in order to function at all, it is necessary that we are able to integrate European legal standards in Croatian legislation in a timely manner or apply them directly as will be the case of 1. 7th of this year and for this reason there are actually several categories of legal norms or laws that we planned to adopt other words not to adopt but to propose to Parliament in 2013. The years that will then be made in harmony with your decisions and made. It is total for 2013. A year planned for harmonisation with the European acquis of 108 laws. And that's where the imbalance comes from as far as neighborhoods are concerned. Of which 92 laws were planned for the first quarter, for the second quarter 9, for the third quarter 3 and for the fourth quarter 4. As a government, we have also provided you with a list of these laws allocated per quarter and with indications concerning the laws where certain elements are involved, and I will also say the same thing about legal gains being transposed into our legislation and where it is about adapting our laws so that some EU provisions can be applied directly from 1.7. Therefore, it will not have to be specifically transposed into laws but will be applied directly. All these laws concerning the direct application of EU rules have, of course, waited and had to wait for the last minute to come into force when we become a full member because before that, this rule of direct application of the EU Directive cannot be applied. This, of course, is what you need to take tentically, or you need to accept as a fact that, in addition to these laws that we know exist, which are now an integral part of the EU acquis. That legal gain is changing. It is the only thing that changes in this respect of 1. Seven. 2013 The fact that Croatia also participates and Croatian representatives participate in the adoption of these rules and can influence their character, but it is expected that our membership will also develop legal property, that we will also have some additional laws that will appear on the agenda in 2, 3 and 4 quarters but especially in 3.4. This is a reflection of what the acquis is right now. So these 108 laws can be divided into two groups, legislative measures that make up legislative proposals to take over the EU acquis that should be applied in Croatia on the day of entry into the EU. It is about the laws to be adopted by the Directive. Of these 108, it's a total of 56 laws. So these 108, so 56 laws are laws that take over the Directive through the following obligations from the negotiations and which are part of the monitoring process or the monitoring process. A significant number refers to the Directives that have been adopted and entered into force in the period following the closure of certain chapters in the negotiations but of course must be incorporated into Croatian legislation. The second part or other sub-groups are those amendments or adjustments to the acquis that enable the implementation of the EU regulation to be implemented directly and are about 45 legislative proposals. They are, if they can thus say technical nature, thus allowing them to implement Union regulations which will be directly applied on the day of entry in the national legal system of the Republic of Croatia and that is a kind of way of saying a unique model, so one model that of these 108 45 laws is adapted to the fact that the Directive can be applied directly from our full membership. We have provided you with short descriptions of your information, and I hope you've seen the short descriptions of all 108 laws. We felt that this was being done for the first time, but we also felt that it would be useful and easier to do a little work, and so it is a kind of component of preparation for what we will have to do continuously after our full membership, which is that a large part of this job will be selected directly against what needs to be installed through the parliamentary procedure in the Croatian legislation de facto will be the work of the Parliament, and de facto it will be done by our Committee on Europe, European issues. For the reasons that I mentioned at the outset, which is the fact that one large number of these legal documents are supposed to function in full membership for these reasons is this disproportionate in the division of laws that are passed. But as I said from that, half of the rough are actually just this technical preparation. Based on the arguments that I have made here, I propose that Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament adopt this plan of harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legal acquis of the EU for 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30103	Thank you, well-respected foreign minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the board of the Croatian Parliament want? Yeah. Honorable representative Daniel Mondekar for European integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30104	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister with Associates. The Committee on European Integration at its 25th session of the draft plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis for the EU for 2013 as a parent body. The proposer's representative met the board members with the very plan with the difference between the acts where we align ourselves with the directives and measures implementing the regulations and the fact that such acts in the first two quarters where the work has to be done in order to allow more than a hundred people to enter the EU in normality and fully function. And this opened a smaller debate at the committee's very session, given that it is 100 acts that must enter into the procedure and be completed by 1 July 2013, so that the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU, with the conclusion that it proposed to the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament to discuss with the presidents the dynamics of the implementation of the Croatia acquis with the legal acquis for the EU for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30105	Thank you too, President of the Board. We accept the proposal. Do the presidents of the working bodies want to take it? No, I don't. We're opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the SDP club of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30106	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Your Honors Minister. This job of discussing the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis, the EU Parliament has indeed been working for a very long time. This is his second term, it's about if I'm not wrong from even before we get the candidate status being discussed on the alignment plan. When we discussed a coordination plan a year ago for 2012, then even though it was an evening debate that basically led to an interesting debate that was a good addition to Europe's communication campaign or to Europe's communication to the citizens because we touched on the plan itself if I am not wrong and the Europe 20/20 strategy and the obligations Croatia will have towards the objectives and achieve the objectives of the strategy itself. We discussed the expected monitoring of October, we discussed the start of ratification and when we started and when the plan was discussed last year at that time we had 3 or 4 completed ratifications at the beginning of the process, we discussed the EU coordination in which the government of the Republic of Croatia plans to create functional EU coordination. Today a year later, we find ourselves so that we only have a few states left to complete ratification. Monitoring and those 10 points mentioned by the minister is nearing their very end. The EU coordination exists, the government is active in its council formats, the Croatian Parliament is active through observers and their work in the EU parliament. So we can say that indeed in a year a lot of things have changed in the Republic of Croatia in order to function better as 28 EU members. As far as the plan itself is concerned, as already mentioned, we have 100 acts in view of the first and second quarters. The Ministry sent us a document detailing the changes, which is a harmonisation with the directives, which is related to the direct application of the regulations and which must be completed by 1 July itself. I personally don't expect some topics to be discussed. I doubt we'll be discussing much about the seal product law, but on the other hand, some of the topics that are covered may start a debate in the Assembly, and accordingly, our committee has sent a conclusion to discuss the dynamics of the debate, since it is still 100-ak acts. We should use this debate in short and mention that in a few months and the role of the Croatian Parliament will be significantly different. The moment Croatia becomes a member of the EU means the Parliament will participate in the parliamentary surveillance process in giving an opinion on the positions, almost certain that all our committees within their work areas will participate in European affairs. In the last year our services have been strengthened, the Office for European and International Affairs has been formed. Soon we will have the Office of the Croatian Parliament at expert level and a whole series of educations have already taken place in the Croatian Parliament and will take place within the next few months just to function as a Parliament of the European Union. Accordingly, the SDP supports the coordination plan, but I will use this moment to call on the Government to send us the proposal for a law on the relations of the Government and the Parliament in the affairs of the European Union as soon as possible to complete and amend the Rules of Procedure as soon as possible, because there is a consensus in the Parliament that this work should be completed as soon as possible, before entering the European Union to get a chance to make simulations of the Croatian Parliament's membership itself as a future member of the European Union. So much for the SDP club. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30107	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30108	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Ministers with co-workers and colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is this postponed so today placed on the agenda of the draft plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2013, so in this point it would appear that we do not have much to discuss. Namely, it is about harmonisation or I would say harmonisation of the laws and acquis of the European Union with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. It is numbered here that there are 108, therefore the laws that will be on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, so as to align with the legal acquis of the European Union in all four quarters, with the fact that in the first quarter of which is already half past, so today there is already almost half of February, in fact half of that quarter has expired, and we have predicted here, i.e. 92 legal acts to be passed. In the second quarter, so April, May, June, therefore, nine more legislative proposals are foreseen, and then in the third quarter 3 and then at the end of four more laws, there before Christmas and New Year's Eve. I honestly expected that these harmonisations and laws that we have left to harmonize are much less. However, since the signing of the pre-accession agreement on 30 June 2011 and to this day the European Union and the European Parliament and the Commission have also adopted many directives and regulations, and they have also now come to the agenda to include them in our legislative proposals, as the Minister has already explained, that is 56 laws that adopt Directives and 45 implementing the European Union regulations on the so-called so-called ‘EU’. direct use. But what I was about to say is that we are a little bit like Parliamentarians, I would say I would not say it before the final act, but our committees that work and discuss legal proposals relatively unlike committees in the European Union are relatively quick and I say a little superficially on these committees we do. Here is the alignment with the European Union, not entering a substrate, not entering into the content of these directives, regulations, etc., not entering what these regulations will produce, clearly we need to bring them into line but what they will actually produce in the Croatian state, in Croatian society. So there is one difference in work between our Parliament, our Parliament and the work of the Committee in the European Parliament, which is held for four days 8 to 10 hours a day, and in fact it is the committees on which the bras are thought and finally put out a certain position from which the directives and regulations are then derived. So yesterday I had two committees, two sessions, two committees, and I'm not going to say which, which we ended up all together in about an hour and a half of both committees. But what I wanted to say further, which is since you freshly came from Slovenia, no, from Brussels, where you are with Mr... In Slovenia, well, isocac near Krka, so it would be interesting to tell us this time, regardless of what may not be the subject, but to tell us something about it because the Croatian public is interested, very interested, and besides, frankly, I wanted to say on Tuesday when the session of the Croatian Parliament began to ask for a break about the position of Slovenia and to tell the secret session of the Slovenian Parliament in which the parliament determined that I should give Slovenian terms for arbitration. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] While we discussed roads and agricultural land, it is also very important about agricultural land, the Slovenian Parliament made a very important decision that is also connected to the fate of Croatia. Unfortunately, no one here has thought or thought about it. As a Croatian Parliament, we have left our integrity to almost the government, and therefore our people are also not considering God knows how deeply the proposals of the government that come to debate in the Parliament. It just goes through, okay, there's a majority on the board, for and done. There isn't any more serious and significant discussion. That is why you see how the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Erjavec, says he cannot without a decision from the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Slovenian Parliament. What is the significance of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Slovenian Parliament is that no minister can say anything without the committee. So this is how when I compare the importance of the board and not reducing the importance of our people who are on that committee, then I must really say that while the Slovenian Parliament is in such an emergency to say the situation when we have come to this, to say the hot points of resolving this problem with Slovenia, the Slovenian Parliament is meeting in the late nights at an extraordinary session and a secret session which is not open to the public, so to discuss the conditions which Slovenia will, therefore, subsidise arbitration. Unfortunately, we here in the Parliament as if we don't care about it, and we don't have any information here or there's a secret diplomacy, I don't know, we don't even know what the Croatian Government is talking about when the Parliament isn't discussing what it's going to substrate arbitration. And that's what's wrong. That's what's wrong and that's what the Croatian Parliament actually is and how the people look at it and how they evaluate it, and then they make a variety of comments and we're actually kind of blaming it ourselves. We ourselves have reduced our status to not saying to the level of observers and here in the Croatian Parliament, and here I am in the European Parliament. Therefore, we hope that you will take this opportunity while you are here to tell us more about this, because the entire Croatian public is certainly very interested. About this point that's now on the agenda of the alignment plan, so I don't think we have a God-knows-what to say. Now, we have laws that we can already adopt today, such as the seal transport law, so we can put it on the agenda right now. I don't think there's much to discuss, as usual, that God doesn't know how much about this subject and how much about topics. Well, here's some we can adopt. What it is for me to say is stuck to the eye in this plan, which is the Food Import Act and others to say to the laws relating to trade and import of food products. In fact, we all know well from the work of the last government that meat imports to Croatia are old enough to say for many years. It's chemical and biologically perfectly correct. We received such a statement and the minister and that we do not have to worry is frozen at -40 degrees in the nitrogen pair, etc. But what kind of meat and organic properties of taste, and all of that, most of us know that well. So I hope that at least here in this case, when it comes to food import laws, it will finally stop to say not to import food but to import food waste into the Republic of Croatia. But here you see, it's been waiting for the last minute, the last moment for such laws to go to alignment. So why haven't we brought it together before? Why haven't we done that before? Or it was convenient that someone was still doing it until the last moment when it had already joined, so by approach on July 1st, I hope that we will not pay too much of this entry to our neighbours who are really, in principle, blackmail actually towards us. So my assessment of my club is, not that it would turn out to be, therefore, state policy and state evaluation, but indeed one true direction is one ultimate blackmail in Zeitno, so the lack of time for Croatia's accession to the European Union. In any case, it is relative to us MPs, so let's say that in this month and a half of the remaining days of the work of the Croatian Parliament, so in this first three months until the end of March, we should discuss and adopt, adapt, thus harmonising how our legislation and the legal frameworks of the directives and the laws that already exist and which are in force in the European Union. That's why I think this coordination plan should be accepted and implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30109	Thank you, too. A replica of the respected representative, Srdjan Gjurkovic, has been reported at your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30110	Dear counterpart Grubisic, I would not agree with you in that segment where you compare the Croatian Parliament with the neighbouring Parliament or any Parliament within or even outside the European Union. I think that the Croatian Parliament, including your party, absolutely supports the project of Croatia's entry into the European Union, which, of course, you have both clearly and clearly expressed and supported both in the vote and in your statement. The Croatian Parliament is working hard enough, and I believe both in quality and indeed with the support of joining the European Union and the Government and the Minister for this matter so far it is visible that it has absolute support for both positions and opposition. I think they work more than transparently in the interest of primarily the Croatian state and the Croatian people by protecting national interests. Therefore, the comparison of the Croatian Parliament, the committee's work with any other parliament, is not appropriate. Because what we have seen from the debate and from the committee represented by Mr Mondekar is that attitudes are very unanimous and suggest support in these negotiations and that the more quality of the entry into the European Union is realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30111	And a response to the replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Coleman is clear to me that you and I disagree in many ways and not in this. However,... Gjurkovic, I apologize. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, I must tell you that I was talking about European committees, so the European Parliament committees that are sitting in Brussels on Monday-Thursday about 8 to 10, here's Mr. Radosh, who is your representative here, so let him tell you. Meeting in Brussels from 8 to 10 hours a day for four days, committees, committees, I'm not talking about a plenary session. Also in Strasbourg is therefore a plenary session 4 days from 9 a.m. to 23 p.m. even in the evening. So I didn't talk, I didn't feel bad, I didn't want to, but I just wanted to compare, and you know how things work on our committees. Although committees should have great importance, I was talking about the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia without which neither Erjavec nor the President of the Republic should decide anything. The Minister also knows that the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia has been the one who has conditioned many things, even in these negotiations. And where is our Committee on Foreign Policy? Where is the Croatian Parliament? I'd also like to ask Mrs. Secretary to give us some questions about my enquiries during her debate and to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30113	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is now the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30114	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here we are at the end of the road, achieving a common goal around which there is a consensus in the Croatian Parliament and beyond the Croatian Parliament to make the Republic of Croatia a full member of the EU. There's a little more than 4.5 months left, things are developing in the right direction. 22 member states have ratified, the Netherlands, the Dutch House of the Netherlands, also one of the countries that has been very cautious towards Croatia, which has continuously imposed very harsh criteria on us here, has already passed a significant part of its procedure. So there's obviously no problem. There is still Belgium, Denmark, Germany. I believe if the Monitoring Report is going to be okay, and all the announcements are that it will be, that they will also ratify the agreement. So, in the end, we only have Slovenia. We heard statements after yesterday's meeting, and I hope we will soon see a positive outcome of these negotiations, so ratification of the Croatian Accession Treaty in the Slovenian Parliament and a fair solution for the Ljubljana Bank to protect Croatian interests. I would like to join the HDSSB Representatives' Club here, and I would ask the Minister to brief us, regardless of what is not the agenda point, but I think it would be correct to brief us on the results of yesterday's meeting. We do not expect details since it is a very sensitive matter, a very delicate moment but basic information I think the Croatian Parliament should be given. My colleague Grubisic mentioned Slovenia, but I think we are better at the situation than she is in Slovenia today. I am not sure that this debate in Slovenia is the result of their democracy, the more political crisis they are in. We have done our job, we have left the preparation of submissions to experts, there is consensus and cooperation between both former and current authorities. They're the same professional teams. It's the same political and legal platform. So Croatia is in a good position and I would not like to change with Slovenian colleagues when it comes to resolving the border issue. As regards the proposal for a plan to bring the Croatian legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2013, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposal. It clearly shows that this is no longer the classic pre-accession program, but that this is about a new form. It is more like the takeover of the legal gain that exists in full-fledged Member States. So I think we're going the right way, we're going back to where we left off, and I believe this is the last report of that kind. The next to come will be a report such as all other full-fledged EU members. What I would like to appeal to, and here I agree with my colleague Mondekar, we need the Law on Co-operation between the Government and the Croatian Parliament on EU issues as soon as possible. We are only 4.5 months away from that until we join the EU and we still do not have that law, and it was announced during last year. We expected it because we must prepare ourselves as a Croatian Parliament for new circumstances, we must avoid a situation which we will not critically assume legal norms from the EU without real debate, without real analysis. Therefore, one quality system should be established adapted to Croatian conditions of course. We need to establish a clear procedure, circulation of documents, we need to establish the role of competent state bodies. We must have more analysis and discussion and about the regulations that we will apply directly and on the directives that we will transpose into Croatian legislation. In order for us to be able to do so, we must have this law and I urge you to really come to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible to prepare ourselves for the quality of the conduct of all duties related to the functioning of Croatia in the EU. And indeed, I appeal once again to the ruling majority and to the government to do so as soon as possible. As far as these 108 laws are concerned, the greatest burden in the first and second quarter is evident, which is logical. We understand and support the conclusion of the Committee on European Integration as a Club of HDZ Representatives and we have participated in it ourselves. So, we are prepared to accept an accelerated procedure which, of course, will not go to the expense of quality, but given the kind of documents, the kind of law and legal standards that we must establish, we believe is possible in a good, fast rhythm to do so and to maintain democracy and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30115	Thank you, Your Honor. Next is the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30116	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to express my satisfaction and congratulate the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs on the agreement reached and which I hope will be confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, which includes ratification of the Croatian Accession Treaty in the Slovenian Parliament. It's a very important, certainly very difficult task. It certainly wasn't easy, we know more or less all the circumstances surrounding this event. It is not necessary to enter into why this has not happened before, but it has certainly been an important and difficult job, and everyone should express satisfaction and give recognition to those who have come to this agreement. As far as this proposal is concerned, it is also as seen and as colleagues said and, of course, the minister in the opening presentation, very detailed. Therefore, only in the first quarter includes 92 laws and some of these laws are very distinctive laws, very important fundamental laws for their areas such as the Law on the gas market, the Act on the Protection of Nature, the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on Waste, the Law on State Support, compulsory health insurance, etc. and one whole series of other laws that are actually much easier because it is, in a technical sense, easier, because it is only about the adoption of the European Union Directives, i.e. their implementation into the Croatian legislative system. It will probably, or certainly, be easier after Croatia becomes a full member, because as you can see here in the chapter, the additional material we have received, the harmonisation to the new acquis of the European Union that took place after the signing of the accession contract, is only about 7 laws. Which means that dynamics and our activities at the permanent takeover of the legal property of the European Union will in fact be more casual, which will, of course, enable the quality of this process in the Croatian Parliament, but of course also in the other bodies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to be better, and therefore, the final result of that implementation to be more quality, of course in the general interest of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. This process that we have been through was a process in which, which was special, in which unfortunately it was not possible to include in full neither all the capacities of the Croatian Parliament, and especially not the public of the Republic of Croatia. But we must work on it, that the Croatian Parliament, that this is not only an understandable procedure, but that each of these laws finds proper treatment and, of course, in the Government, which has been so far, but certainly also in the bodies of the Croatian Parliament. And that is why it is very important that we adopt the Law on the Relations of the Government and the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible. On the issues of monitoring the implementation of the legal gain of the European Union, and this law could also allow the overall relations between the Croatian Parliament and the Government to be higher and higher. Therefore, not only on issues concerning the European Union, but on all matters, therefore fundamental, legislative, but also on the supervisory role of the Croatian Parliament. Through that law, it can be indirectly strengthened and better than it's ever been before. This coordination plan is also followed by a programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that is much wider than this, which includes not only legislative measures but also sublegal measures, but also the implementation of these measures. This document is available, it is very wide on some 250 pages, differently made this year than in previous years, adapted to procedures and technically consistent with the documents that we will have to bring every year when we are a full member. Well, it would be nice to look at some of that document, see what it looks like because it's much wider than this actually table view of the alignment plan. I hope, of course, that the monitoring that will soon be the European Commission's report at that stage of monitoring, that it will be good, positive for Croatia that there will be no difficulty, we have achieved mostly all possible and necessary assumptions, met these 10 conditions and those side conditions that are not numerically presented, and are in the latest report of the European Commission. But it should be said that monitoring is, in fact, a procedure that is more and more, not only for Croatia, but for the European Union to become a subject of the European Parliament and hopefully, and possibly for the European Commission, the European Council. At this time, there are 2 amendments in the European Parliament concerning some kind of monitoring over Croatia. One amendment concerning monitoring of our readiness, the adoption of the European Union Cohesion Funds, and the other is an amendment concerning the fight against corruption after the accession of the European Union. These are two amendments submitted by one Bulgarian and one Romanian representative of the European Parliament. I suppose these amendments will not get most of the political groups because Croatia has no reason to be in particular status with respect to other members but they are gradually introducing monitoring mechanisms for all EU countries not only new members of the EU but also for all countries and these procedures discussed in the European Parliament on budgetary policy surveillance, budgetary adoption and the measures envisaged for those countries that enter the current budgetary difficulties, that is universal monitoring. Some kind of monitoring in this sensitive budget area is of course talked about other types of monitoring. The European Semester, which is harmonised, which is oriented towards growth but includes not only economic policy and growth policy but also other policy dimensions in countries, is also a kind of monitoring and it is logical that the EU is thinking and in the perspective of actually introducing some kind of universal monitoring for all countries. If this type of monitoring existed, it would probably not have been these difficulties, or it would have been more difficult to get into these difficulties that have a significant number of EU countries, so that they do not really need to be afraid of it. This is very logical for one such institution which is very complicated, but what is more important than that is actually just monitoring that should set itself up, which is therefore empowering these bodies that need to work on implementing the EU Directive but, of course, to watch all other sublegal activities that occur in the ministries so that this implementation is in line with some intensity of fundamental documents and in accordance with other laws or legislation of Croatia. And that is the question of this law on the relations between the Croatian Parliament and the Government, and of course I expect that we will get the law as soon as possible. Recently, there was a conference in the Croatian Parliament, a roundtable on the role of the Finnish Parliament in the process, given that Finland is a relatively new EU member so it is not in this last, last wave. But it has also adopted in some kind of transition mechanisms that are very, very affirmative and give a very high role to Parliament, which should ultimately bring quality of the whole process, so when we pass this law, it would not be bad to look at and what are Finnish experiences, but of course also positive experiences from other countries. The club of HNS representatives will therefore accept the draft plan and we expect, of course, that this plan will be achieved in the first plan, and in the second, and of course, we expect that in those neighborhoods after the new acquis is taken over, that it will be easier and that this takeover will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30117	Thank you, Your Honor. Two replicas have been reported. The first replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30118	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Rados, counterpart Grubisic has already said that the HDSSB club will support this, but I must admit that you surprised me at the start of your debate when you started it with congratulations from Foreign Minister Pusic. What congratulations? What do you know that the rest of us don't know? And what doesn't know, he doesn't even know how familiar I am with the entire Croatian public? And what if, by any chance, it turns out that the deal was at maybe also at the expense of national interests or Croatian citizens, perhaps saving, perhaps. It is strange that you point out the card and our invitations to the Minister to meet parliamentary representatives at least in part with the content of what interests the entire Croatian public has no answer. We have already heard that Slovenian Minister requests the approval of the board of his parliament and we MPs in the Croatian Parliament on such important issues as are of general national interest here we know for now less than the sparrows on the branch. And you said in your discussion that the Croatian Parliament often plays a control role. Well, here I think this is evidence as well as many other things that we are most often just a fig leaf for decisions and actions of the Croatian Government. And that's why I expect to find out what your congratulations are based on from Madam Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30119	Thank you very much. And the esteemed representative, Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30120	So you know your colleague that the issue of this agreement is about the problem and the question of ratification. So it's not absolutely the interest of the Republic of Croatia not to have that ratification come no matter who's to blame. I'm sure it would be to the expense of the Republic of Croatia. I congratulate you on reaching an agreement, I don't have any specific information you don't have. Therefore, the very fact that an agreement has already been reached already deserves recognition. What's the deal? I don't know. Of course I expect that to the greatest extent possible in these very complicated relations, the interests of the Republic of Croatia are protected, I am convinced. Of course, when you enter a conversation and negotiate always to get something, you have to give something. And our political technology has never been able to deal with it and every attempt to come to an agreement has been attacked because something every time you reach an agreement you have to give and of course it certainly has been and can't be different and no one could do it differently. And whether or not the Minister will inform the Parliament or say something about it, we will see. Of course, she will assess it in view of what she has taken over from the government of the Republic of Slovenia, which she has according to the Slovenian side she has negotiated with, the minister will self-evident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30121	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30122	Thank you very much. Col. Radoš, it is good that you have seen in your debate that Croatia's EU level of 1st July this year will have to reach a legislative pre-regulatory or regulatory framework in which we will have to count on the transmission of competences of the European Parliament, the EU Commission to the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Parliament, respectively. This is why it will really be necessary to adopt new laws on the relations between the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament so that we do not remain some kind of traditional ficus we here and representatives and the Croatian Parliament. What you were saying about monitoring and the proposals of one Bulgarian and one Romanian MP in the EU parliament, and I guess they were taught their own experience from their countries where corruption and crime are just booming, and then they tried to impose such monitoring on Croatia. And as for the control of money spending, it is true that Europe does not say it tightens the belt, but is really trying to determine the possibilities of monitoring the spending of money. At a plenary session in the EU, parliament was told that the EU supported the democratic revolution in Egypt for 5 billion euros. And what did she get? The Democratic Revolution. But Egypt is not today the subject of this session, but let's say one of these things is 5 million euros for the development of democracy. So what she asked for is what she got. This is how European money is spent and indeed monitoring and monitoring the spending of such money that Europe gives out of taxpayers' pockets 500 million EU citizens is needed and that is not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30123	Thank you very much. This is what we have exhausted the list of representatives' clubs reported for discussion on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. The first is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30124	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Minister of Associates. I want to say in the beginning something that I believe that and what we all think here today when we look at this plan that is the plan of coordination that we can say that we are at the very end of the job that we ourselves wrote after the signing of the accession contract on 9th of 2011, so the adjustment process. By personally thinking that we will still have to work a lot after 1 July 2013 and that it will be a permanent process because when you live and become a member of a family, then you must, of course, constantly adapt and of course adjust to everything that life in such a family normally and requires. That is why I, as a member of the Croatian Parliament today, hope that the role of the board in the Croatian Parliament in this process, especially after 1st of July 2013, will be far greater, that the work on the committees will indeed be given to all the fullness they see and that our observers in the EU Parliament at this moment, which means in the EU Parliament, and that we in committees will indeed discuss in detail that we will grind the laws, that we will grind the decisions and that the reports of our committees at the plenary session will also get a different meaning. They are either submitted or read routinely, but I believe that in the work of the Croatian Parliament, Croatia's entry into the EU will also bring a newspaper and will give the full power of the Croatian Parliament in Croatia living in a system of parliamentary democracy where the government corresponds to the Parliament, where the government is elected in the Croatian Parliament. So at this point, we're waiting for a few important decisions. We're waiting certainly for a report that I believe and I'm sure and I hope it's positive. I listened to the Croatian Radio this morning, but the rapporteur's words for Croatia said that out of the 10 requirements set for Croatia, they are waiting for two more to be met. He put particular emphasis on the shipyard, but I believe it will be settled by the end of this month. This is something that at the moment when we are fighting to solve the case of the Ljubljanska Banka, we must not let the Ministers out of our sight and I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is very much in charge of this matter. And of course we are waiting and we are all waiting and all of Croatia is in one big waiting room about the agreement with Slovenia regarding the Ljubljanska Banka. I believe I could actually say for sure that although my colleagues' demands are justified that Mrs. Minister says something today about the agreement, that we will not be able to get some particular details today because that was the case when we agreed on an arbitration agreement on a solution to the border issue. However, I do believe and hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister after the agreement yesterday in Slovenia will take care that whatever agreement must be in line with the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the interests of Croatian savings because it is individual rights, but also the interests of the state when we speak of the transferred savings, because the state has stood in the place of the Ljubljanska Banka and of course paid those amounts that the Croatian savings demanded. I can say today from this position of course the opposition representative that the blockade of the Republic of Slovenia is completely and clearly unfair and this happens to us for which time because when Slovenian Prime Minister Borut Pahor is on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia on 9 December 2011 at the end of all processes. and the foreign policy committee and parliament and government decisions and so on, etc., who all said that Croatia had finished its job and when Borut Pahor put his signature in Brussels on December 9th then he said by that signature: on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, friendly neighbouring countries, Croatia has done its job, a big, huge, too difficult, the most difficult job so far. And therefore, of course, the extraction of the problem of the Ljubljanska Banka which is definitely a bilateral issue is definitely a damaged Croatian savings, as an obstacle to Croatia's entry into the European Union, but we are in a position that Croatia is not a member of the European Union, and Slovenia is in a position to be one of the 2 members of the European Union and if we would not become a member of the European Union on 1 July Slovenia would still be a member of the European Union. The criticism, the fact that officials of the Republic of Slovenia would be viewed with a reprimand means nothing to us, of course. That is why I agree that we all support the government together at this time that I believe in a good deal that was indicated yesterday to go on, making sure that we do not have time, that every minute is precious to us because the political situation in Slovenia is so fragile that if, of course, as the minister said, she will meet the Government, she will meet the Croatian Prime Minister. What if Mr. Erjavec meets the government, meets the prime minister, and they disagree. Relations are such, the survival of the government is on glass feet, parliament is also, and of course we have to take care even though it doesn't help us, about when and when it's over, and I believe that when all the processes in Slovenia are finished and the ratification of course, and I believe that it will, of course, that someone can come out, let a small party, anyone, and ask for a referendum. Thus, in many ways, my colleague Grubisic spoke about the practice in Slovenia and, of course, the practice in Slovenia and the legislation differs much from that in Croatia, so it is easy to reach a referendum, that is to say, the request for a referendum, and then the whole procedure stops again, the results of the referendum should wait. I believe that if it were to happen that Croatia would go through again and in this exam in the Republic of Slovenia because it is shown by research, a large part of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want Croatia to be a member and to finally stop that bickering and finally live peacefully as neighbours who will live here forever. Nothing can change forever and there, of course. I remember the period 2009 and the blockade, the Slovenian blockades, do not forget that then the Republic of Slovenia blocked 14 of our 35 chapters and that we did not find a solution through the arbitration agreement we would be standing still today because the Republic of Slovenia would continue to block those 14 chapters. In my view, therefore unfairly because we through negotiations have dealt with the difficult legacy of war, aggression in Croatia, the difficult legacy of what we have been subjected to and war crimes, of course the reform of the judiciary as something we have decided for ourselves, but at the end of this time it would be truly tragic for us to prevent anything from blowing up on July 1st of this year and congratulating each other. Because finally, in a political sense for our country, this one could almost be said and the only point around which there is actually this so-called. Consensus, i.e. the consensus that Croatia must sit at the table of European countries and peoples and that it must become a member of the European Union. So we made our own. Madam Minister, I ask you to keep an eye on those two important points regarding the solution to the problem of the Ljubljanska Banka, that it is individual individual rights and that the issue must be regulated in accordance with international contracts. Certainly happily finally, and I believe that very quickly we will all be able to take a breath here in Parliament, and I believe that you will then detail all the details of the talks and the negotiations on the solution and this last one I believe obstacles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30125	Thank you, too. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30126	Dear fellow MPs, as they say in Slovenia, can reach a referendum in Slovenia but is not in Croatia, it is easier to reach a referendum in Switzerland. Unfortunately, neither your government nor this Government of Zoran Milanovic has allowed such elasticity in calling a referendum in this country. But you were talking about Slovenia and your conversations with Pahora. I am also afraid the citizens of the Republic of Croatia certainly want to know whether the North Adriatic submersible will be exploited by Slovenians, whether they will fish in Croatian territorial waters and whether our fishermen will be able to fish in theirs. And if now that we enter the European Union it's some kind of common sea, and in the end whether pastures and forests below St. Gera will enter the composition of the agricultural land of Tihomir Jakovina our minister or we will have to give up these grasslands, ornaises, forests, fields that are on St. Gera and around St. Gera. And another series of others to tell the Earth's to say the problems we have, the border problems with the Republic of Slovenia. In the end, I'm afraid that in the end, if we don't do everything but give a good part of ours for our own, we'll trade ours for our own. We're not gonna get anything, and at least we're gonna lose some. It is fear and fear I trust the entire people of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30127	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As for the referendum in the Republic of Croatia, it is my view that the provisions of the Constitution, our Croatian Constitution on the referendum, are good and should not be changed. Because as you can see from the experience of the Republic of Slovenia, I would almost say every month's referendum on certain issues can almost block the government's work. Because it's the government who's responsible. She answers the election for her good or bad decisions. But constantly obstruct the work of the Government, bring down the Pension Insurance Act, the Labour Act, etc. etc. In fact, the referendum blocks the government and it becomes completely powerless and ultimately irrelevant. So, I think that's my personal opinion. We have good provisions on the referendum rarely really when it comes to key national issues. That's my point of view. You can agree or disagree, and as far as these fears of yours are concerned, you can draw another thousand about what would happen if they were, etc. The arbitration agreement provides that arbitration judges will decide on the basis of international law. It will be the best experts and they will make sure that they comply with the best repetitive provisions of international law and should not be expected. It would really be bad to scare people in Croatia who are in a referendum in the end citizens have said about the European Union they should not now be afraid that the arbitration court will make decisions that will be at the expense of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30129	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30130	Here's an esteemed colleague, I would agree in one part with you that the problem of the Ljubljanska Banka cannot be tied to Slovenian ratification and cannot be a condition. They need to sign to enter the European Union on 1 July. And it can't be a condition for ratification of the agreement. However, the Croatian government, no matter how responsible it is, is often mentioned by President Milanovic, coming from this House. Above the Croatian government is the Parliament, and in the past we have seen each other clapping, kissing on the shoulder, shaking hands with Slovenian politicians, but it has brought nothing good to Croatia today. I also believe that the Croatian public, and I particularly believe that there has been enough time since yesterday's meeting to meet both the government and the prime minister with the possibilities and models of solving the problems of the Ljubljana Bank. So I believe that both the Croatian public and the parliamentary representatives need it at this time because this is also the interest of this Croatian Parliament to be familiar with the models of solving this problem. But in any case, the Republic of Slovenia cannot condition resolving the problem of the Ljubljanska Banka with ratification. Not now entering the harmfulness of that arbitration agreement which nevertheless opened the approach to negotiation and was practically blackmailing the Republic of Slovenia towards Croatia, but in reality I will repeat what I said a few years ago. It may happen that Croatia is left without the Piran Bay and without St. Gera and without those pastures and bracelets below St. Gera, but it can remain because we will have to agree to the result of the arbitration agreement, and may also be left without Ilica in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30131	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30132	Thank you very much. Well, I'm done with the arbitration agreement. I don't think it really makes sense because bringing the arbitration agreement and consensus in the Croatian Parliament on how we're going to address the border issue, unblock negotiations and become a member of the European Union, I think it's ridiculous and I would no longer discuss it. But only about this way that politicians from the two countries, for example, meet from certain countries, as you say they are. Well, I think it's common in the whole world for people to come decently, to shake hands, to kiss each other, and it's certainly better than coming with axes on their backs to talk about difficult issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30133	Thank you very much. At the end of the debate, Prime Minister Vesna Pusic, on behalf of the promoter, respected Deputy Prime Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Here's your honorary Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30134	Thank you, Mr. President. I really thank all the clubs and everyone who participated in this debate. Perhaps one of the things we rarely talk about, which I find unusually appreciated and important is that the topic of Croatian progress, reform in the way of using the European context to achieve this from coming to a consensus on the subject that we have managed as a political community to maintain this consensus through all other difficulties, disagreements, Scylla and Haribde which we have been through that we have been able and are able to maintain this consensus and I think today's debate confirms it. I personally believe that this is indeed a very positive sign of our maturation as a political community. Let me say a few things as a comment or a response to what MPs have launched in their discussions. The Law on the Relations of Parliament and Government – I agree, it is an unusually important law and I hope it will be very soon before you since the draft is completed. And at this point, he's in agreement within the government. It is as you have said an unusually important law because it determines many of these things that some of the participants mentioned today, including the importance of parliamentary committees. It is true that parliamentary committees, and in my opinion, would not only be good and positive but it will be necessary, because a large part of this work that is currently being done by the Government will move on to parliamentary committees, primarily the Parliamentary Committee on Europe or European issues equivalent to our Grand Commission or the Great Committee, for example, in the Finnish Parliament which is mentioned here and which therefore has and has been established all this much stronger support, the service to be able to de facto decide, may seek a recommendation from the Government but it does not have to. The Government's recommendation is from that point of view only a matter of facilitating work or not, but the Committee does not have to seek a recommendation from the Government, it can decide on its own what is going on at the session and which is directly applicable. So, based on this law which can enter in fact, it can formally begin to function from our full membership, but I think it is good that we have some time to discuss this law in both Parliament and public debates because it is a law that will have a great impact on the functioning of the Parliament, but also on the representatives of the Croatian Government in European institutions, since it will have to define how representatives of the Croatian Government will be adopted, because representatives in the European Parliament will not be representatives of the Croatian government, they will be elected in special elections, and representatives of the executive government will be representatives of let's say the institution of government in Croatia. And this law regulates this important moment, which and how the views that ministers regularly meet are, of course, the heads of government or state in the European Council, foreign ministers, finance ministers, agriculture ministers. Let's say these are the most common and regular meetings. So you'll have to know what they represent. This law, therefore, as I have said, is made, at this point a debate is being held and some things agreeing within these proposals in the government, and as soon as it is in some form that it can leave the government not only for Parliament but also for public debate it will be so. As for the observation that half of the first quarter has expired at this point, we have 16 or 17 laws that have been resolved from that first quarter and we have at least one 30 that are in different preparatory stages. So it's not as tragic as it might seem at first sight. As regards the mention of the memorandum, that is, the submission that we are in line with the Treaty on arbitration, which does not apply to this meeting yesterday or to the current agreements, this is one process regarding political decisions. That process is over. So, what is now and a sign is that I would say a certain turmoil or an unusually small situation in the Slovenian Parliament and on the Slovenian side that this memorandum or that submission that each party must submit to the International Ad hoc Court of Arbitration, and it must be made by experts in both cases of both top and domestic and international legal experts. What happened in Slovenia is that such a memorandum was made but some also appeared to say an alternative that had perhaps a little more political elements and a parliamentary committee but it was remarkable to say the situation or decision. The regular procedure that is foreseen is that when it is once, and we remember that the arbitration agreement is not only ratified in both Croatia and Slovenia, so the assembly and the national assembly. And after that, he went to a referendum in Slovenia. The arbitration agreement also passed the ratification of the arbitration agreement in Slovenia also passed in a referendum. And now this procedure goes on to follow is the direct result of the steps defined in that arbitration agreement. And in this respect we follow it absolutely and completely and this submission, which the Croatian side has made according to the government's assessment not only made of top experts, but is also domestic and international, but is indeed first-class. But it's something to be submitted to international arbitration then. After that, they are sent to the Croatian Slovenian side, the Slovenian Croatian side and each side should be shown about the submission of the other side. And after that, it becomes a decision within the framework of the arbitration itself. You remember that 3 international lawyers were appointed, not Croatia 1, on the Slovenian side 1 and 1 on the Croatian side. And in that composition, international ad hoc arbitration makes a decision. So in this respect, I must agree with my Slovenian counterpart Erjavac the time of politics here ended and the time of law comes. And what we're doing right now is a matter of legal expertise and expertise. Several MPs and MPs mentioned yesterday's meeting, of course, which is not a topic and is not on the agenda. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll say a few words about it, on request. So that's one problem that's been on the agenda since 92, and in this form in which we welcomed it today is on the agenda since 95. For various reasons, he wasn't solved, he tried to get rid of himself, so it didn't work out, different things, but now I'm not going to get into trouble. I think it's crucial that a man, if at some point is responsible for one job, faces it and tries to solve it. There are two types or two categories of savings. There are those who transferred their claims to Croatia in one form over 10 years by the government of the Republic of Croatia in the 1990s, and that's what we're talking about. So, this, this money has nothing to do with anything but that money that's already been transferred to the Republic of Croatia and that over 10 years has paid these people who have made up their mind, we're discussing it, and we can't go into another or we can't discuss it. It is a political issue in Slovenia and we can argue that it is not good, that it is not nice but it is a fact. And in that sense, I think we have to face the fact that if it's something, whether we think it's just or good or anything. The political issue in the neighbouring country with which we have to solve this problem, we must and should take care of it. I think it's possible in this kind of conversation and negotiation, I think it's possible to approach it in two ways, one that we're trying to see who's going to outwit who. And the other is to try to treat the other side with which we talk as partners and understand that both sides with that decision must be able to live and must accept power in their own institutions. And this conversation was approached from that perspective, so not from the perspective of who's going to outsmart and beset his leg because these are very short-lived solutions, these are solutions that someone can say the second day, I said all alone and the proverb. So I must also be solutions that are durable for both sides, especially as it is said here that it is not a country that is 1,000 kilometers away from us, but a country that is neighbouring to us and will always be adjacent to us. They too are concerned about the country that will, which is neighbouring to them and will always be neighbouring to them, namely Croatia. I cannot talk about the concrete contents of this proposal, frankly not because we did not talk about it, but also with the prime minister and with some members of our government, but because if we are partners in these negotiations, we must wait for the Slovenian side to also talk, so their minister talks with his prime minister and members of the government and see if it is acceptable for them. He is like me, in yesterday's conversation, we both assessed that the proposal is sustainable, which is of course a compromise and acceptable for both sides and to allow for the accession of the ratification of the Croatian accession agreement in the Slovenian Parliament. But it's the two of us, if that's how they're going to evaluate it, it's not enough. This is one important and significant step in my opinion that we both have come to this, but they have to assess both government and prime ministers, and we're going to stick to it that until there's some decided attitude so far that no one, on their own, will unilaterally go public with that proposal. As far as I'm concerned, that's how I gave my word, and that's how I'm gonna stick to it. I am absolutely willing to answer for the fact, if they accept this proposal that I felt in our agreement that this is a proposal that does not harm anyone, which is in our interest, which solves a kind of fall in the position in which Slovenia was found and which is durable. Without further ado, I'm willing to bear responsibility. If the Croatian government accepts it, that means the prime minister is willing to bear responsibility for it, but the same thing must be on the Slovenian side in order to hold the water. And in this sense there is absolutely no doubt or doubt that we will present the content of this proposal but not before we get an answer from the Slovenian side of what they think. Because without some kind of light play, I don't think there's any deal and I don't think there's any progress in any and especially international relations. If all this goes well and is acceptable, then Slovenia is very likely to be able to ratify our accession contract in March. But that depends, of course, on the acceptance and realization of this agreement or this solution. At this point as you know, we have 22 ratifications, in five countries we have left, four start processes, four in two countries are at least half or half finished, and two are Belgium and the Netherlands. Two more start processes include Denmark and Germany, and in Slovenia it is not yet started. If everything's okay, maybe it'll start sooner than some of these I listed here. A few words about monitoring. I think it is important to make the difference between monitoring and higher levels of EU integration. It's two special processes. As far as monitoring is concerned, Croatia is administratively due to some of the experiences that I do not now mention the country, earlier enlargement is under the monitoring of 1.7. In 2011, therefore, from the end of the negotiations or from the signing of the accession agreement until 30.06.2013, when the last day of our outbreak outside the EU is due to some bad experiences earlier. And that's why we're monitoring not only does someone look at you during that period but it means that you set up your own mechanisms, control, let's say the implementation of decisions, the law, what some kind of our difficulty has always been to pass laws if it's actually being implemented. So these mechanisms develop during this monitoring period. As for the higher degree of integration, it is a special topic, it is a debate in which we participate, and we will participate even more when we are a member. This higher degree of integration concerns four elements, economic policy, tax or fiscal policy, budgetary policy and political integration. The whole debate was started because of the euro crisis, not because of the crisis in the EU, but because of the crisis in the monetary union, in 17 countries not 27, but 17 monetary union countries with a normal finding. It is a unique currency and are completely independent of these policies, which are then reflected in the effect of currency or euro. And so started this whole debate and then it's through, but these are really higher levels of integration has been introduced and a series of measures or mechanisms that require the harmonisation of these policies between Member States. And that's the debate that we are now witnessing from one side between the concept of these four higher levels of integration and the concept of British Prime Minister Cameron. So different visions of future EU development. But these 4 integrations are not actually monitoring but are a position, a vision of the development of the Union that must go if it wants to keep and develop a common currency that must go to a higher degree of integration. And maybe another 10-point thing. Speaking about shipbuilding, the situation in shipbuilding is next, with Commission Vice-President and Commissioner for Competition Almunio, a new model has been agreed for all three shipyards that are accepted, accepted by investors. Brodoplit is heading towards signing the contract on February 28th, Brodotrogir is going towards a contract but as far as the commission is concerned, that the contract be signed in late February, in early March. And "May 3" is the approved model for going at the moment. An oil investor as a potential investor is performing due diligence, and the contract should also be signed during spring. What is important is that it has been negotiated with the Commission that the privatisation models of the three shipyards, and on the other hand with investors who place their money, that new privatisation models have been negotiated to those details relating to money deposits in the shipyard or in the project itself. And finally, as far as the arbitration agreement is going to determine the limit, you all know what its contents are and what determines in this submission is and the questions as we see them are defined are relevant to the border and the border points. The border itself if you remember, and if you can't look, is determined by the basis of international law. That's the first point, and then everything else. Now, beyond that, in this kind of dispute, you can't and I don't think that, as I said here, it's our job to stick to the legal profession, and from that point of view, I think that's the solution we've ratified which legal profession brings to both sides the smartest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30135	Thank you very much. At your presentation, we have registered 4 replicas, but before we begin in replicas, I would like to say this, respected colleagues of the MPs and respected colleagues of the information we received from the respected Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on bilateral relations and negotiations between the Republic of Slovenia regarding the resolution of issues related to the Ljubljanska Banka and its clients in the Republic of Croatia is not related to the issue of harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the EU, nor is it formally related to ratification of the Croatian Treaty and of the EU countries. Of course, we thank that we have received information in the form that we have received but I would not extend the topic related to this item of the agenda. It's a request from here. And now we're going with replicas to expose the respected Deputy Prime Minister. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30136	Dear Vice President, Minister. In 1966, England won the title of champion, world football champion, nonexistent goal. That's the fair play. For fair play, it takes two, and you may be deliberately or accidentally in your conversation, regardless of what the President of the Assembly is calling for not mentioning the problem of the Ljubljanska banka, but perhaps on purpose and unintendedly you mentioned that just solving the problem of the Ljubljanska Banka is a condition for therefore one of the current conditions of the Slovenian side for ratification of the agreement. In history we had a series of examples of Slovenian fair play, so the condition for a pre-accession contract was an arbitration agreement. At that time, many people in the profession said that this arbitration agreement, I agree that the time of politics has passed now and that the time of law should take place, but then many people in the profession said that the agreement was ultimately harmful to Croatia, although it allowed it but it was a condition on the Slovenian side. Finally, several MPs voted here, including myself, I say it openly, but voted against the arbitration agreement, but the current president Ivo Josipovic also voted then, after which he changed his mind. I'm afraid, I think we all want Croatia to join the EU together, we should have done it before. Unfortunately, the EU is the only way out of this crisis thanks to Croatian politics today. But given what is going on in Slovenia, we can indeed see that one Yosko Yoras or some small right-wing party is asking for a referendum and delaying this issue of EU accession.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30137	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30138	Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, I will quote your sentence. This proposal, which has been reached, we do not know the details, is durable for Croatia. It's one adjective in one bearable form. At the same time, on television last night, I am watching your colleague, Karl Erjavac, who says that Slovenia has achieved its interest and that Slovenia's interests are satisfied. Let's look at the difference in those two quotes. I think a lot of things are clear. Secondly, when I think too much, then I certainly conclude that the Slovenian Parliament's memorandum in the secret session strengthened Slovenia's position, but what it did Croatian, did we, whether we could strengthen you in negotiations with our discussions, some decisions and conclusions. I just want to help your role and your status there, not only yours, but you represent the Croatian government and the Croatian state. Therefore, if this Parliament plays the same role as the Slovenian parliament in the Slovenian state that we do not have any influence, and therefore we want to strengthen the role of negotiators, you personally and the Croatian Government in this process. One more thing, you haven't told us the details here, but the Slovenian Parliament must know the details in order to ratify Croatia's entry into the European Union, then the public will know the details. So if you don't tell us by then we'll probably know what's signed and what's agreed. We'll be able to do that from Slovenians or be some kind of investigative journalism that's still going to get a handle on what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30139	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30140	I thank you, Mr. President. So I understand the abstention of Madam Vice President and Minister, it is clear that this is a very sensitive moment and I am not going to ask any questions regarding the content of yesterday's agreement. But what I am interested in after your final address and after yesterday's statements, I wonder if you really have agreed with Slovenian Foreign Minister Erjavec, whether you have a joint proposal for each of your governments. So that's one thing, is there a 100% consensus there because I've heard that there are several variations and I don't understand now who's going to make a difference in front of their government. So that's one question. The second question is dynamics. The next meeting if exactly what was transferred in the media is 19.2., so from 19.2. to 8.3. until when the meeting of the Slovenian Parliament remained only 17, 18 days. Is there a scenario that will happen in case you fail to reach a final agreement on 19.2. So that's one legitimate concern, I repeat, I don't get into content but I'm interested in the framework. And another thing not related to the Ljubljanska banka, but to the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. According to my information, this law has been in the government consultations for several months now. We can't do quality European topics until we have that law in the House. We are in vain talking about strengthening the role of the board, that we will oversee the government in the process of all matters related to the European Union if we do not have that law. I don't understand why these consultations are taking so long, and I'm asking you really to get the law in the process as soon as possible because it's not enough for him to come 1.7, we've got to be prepared for work. We should have that law two or three months earlier so we can practice the procedure under that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30141	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, ma'am, I'm just curious, and you say the President of the Parliament said that the borders of the Ljubljanska Banka are not related to ratification. So if they're not related to ratification why so much noise about it right now, why not wait until we enter the European Union, why don't we get it from them, why don't you accept our candidacy, why don't they ratify it and then talk about boundaries, because we've been waiting since '91. to resolve these borders and now, suddenly, these borders must be resolved just before entering the European Union. So we know where our borders are, and you also know that borders cannot be changed unless the Croatian Parliament approves it. And did I understand or not, you say with the agreement you're going on.../Speaking off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30143	You're gonna have to get yourself involved with the esteemed MPs. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30144	I don't know if I get it right, you said with the agreement you're moving on if the government and the Prime Minister agree. But I repeat, if the borders can be changed with the consent of the Croatian Parliament if you think it may be one thematic session or come, once again explain to us what it is and how far you have gone in the negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30145	Replicate reply, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30146	So just a few answers. The question is, did my colleague Erjavec and I agree on what we wear as a proposal, yes? 19.2. is our next meeting but of course the governments and presidents of the government and we will be in communication all this time to see where things are going and if this doesn't work out. And as far as the borders themselves are concerned, it does not get rid of itself before we enter the European Union, nor is it a condition. We have defined this by arbitration agreement and this process goes independently on our entry and will be resolved after our entry because our entry is 1.7 and this will be resolved in 2014. I don't know if after that, but in 2014, you'll probably be able to make a decision. And as for the Parliament, the parliament ratified, so with 8 votes against the total, it ratified the arbitration agreement which took responsibility for itself to implement the arbitration court's decision whatever it was and the other side, both the Croatian and Slovenian sides ratified it and of such types of international contracts did not give up. So that's what the Parliament has already made its decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30147	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of reported replicas and replies to the replica. So we can conclude that the European Union is not our destiny, but our conscious and willing political decision. So in the coming days, we will spend months constantly talking about the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on our interests in the European Union and on European interests, I guess, in the European Union. We will vote on the proposal for a coordination plan once the conditions are met. Now we're going to the next item on the agenda. Proposal for a Regulation of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the legal acquis for the EU for 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the draft plan. Please plead. Who's up for the plan? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 118 votes for the adopted Plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis for the EU for 2013 in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30150	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 is mentioned. We will now have this report for 2012 early to catch some pace. In 2012, we also introduced some changes that can possibly be talked about and in the concept of development aid. However, development aid has been increasing, always has been, but more and more ways of presenting the country in the world, the way of defining some political profile, the way of representing and defending their own and political and economic interests and the way international partnerships have been made at the level of countries that are similar to size and economic strength, either at the level of countries that are very different size and economic powers but for some reasons in some parts of the world have a very clear common interest. In conceived our foreign policy, and then of course define at least in rough directions to go, because of course the resources are limited by development aid. We have four criteria or four directions. One is a region that is obviously relevant to us, I don't think it should be specifically explained for our stability and economic situation. Other partnerships with the EU country are, therefore, the European Union as one relevant partner, which in itself makes the biggest contribution to official development aid in the world. So, the biggest donor of these development aids. The third Southern Mediterranean, which is now unusually relevant because of the Arab spring and the profound changes that occur in the countries of the Southern Mediterranean, and on the other hand, because of the fact that this is our little wider neighbourhood from both the economic point of view and from the point of view of political stability and from the point of view of migration. So, from a whole series, across a series of criteria, it's a relevant environment for us. And then special cases of a country where we are in peace missions and in partnership with some of the great forces or significant political international factors. Given that as one of the ideas or one of the projects we have is connecting the participation of our soldiers and police officers in peacekeeping missions to civil projects that actually mean development aid and Afghanistan is such an effective example where Croatia participated very significantly and still participated in ISAF and with the withdrawal of international peacekeeping forces. And we are one of the countries that has accepted the Danish initiative to participate in helping build Afghanistan's institutions after most military withdrawals, certainly after the ISAF's withdrawal. Now, after these general guidelines in which we develop Croatian development aid and arguments why we consider it important. We really feel that this is unusually important in our house. At the same time, I must say that the money for the official development aid that Croatia is giving is being reduced rather than increasing, although Croatia will be providing funds that we have never given for bilateral development aid, so what we are giving directly will be given in the common development and humanitarian aid provided by the EU and where our presence will not, of course, be visible and we will have to realise through the fact of our membership in the Union. In 2011, the official development aid of the Republic of Croatia amounted to 108 million 616 thousand 163,37 kuna, or 0.03 gross national income. And these funds have been spent on 573 projects. This amount is de facto more or less a quarter of the amount that was registered as official development aid a year before 2010, but let's just say the goods only somewhat precisely. It is somewhat true because in 2010, the cost of translation into the Croatian, common EU acquis that we gave to our neighbours was calculated by the way of BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and all the countries to which we gave it so that this official development aid looked great through it. If we calculate that, then it's a real reduction between 2010 and 2011. 8.84%. So 9% is a reduction in official development aid. In accordance with the obligations made by Croatia in the negotiations in Chapter 30. – external relations, the European Commission has expressed expectations that Croatia will reach the level of allocation for development aid that the EU provides for new member states of 0.17% of GDP. So we have 0.03. 0.17% of GDP in 2010, so a year before this report, and 0.33% of GDP for 2015. As these trends show, the probability here is small to no one that we will achieve this kind of participation in official development aid. So that's the amount compared to our GDP. This simply decreases for obvious reasons, for reasons of budgetary situation and reduction of the funds I say are visible and started here in 2011. Of course, if the trend of reducing this development aid continues, it could compromise the implementation of the new national strategy, development cooperation for the period 2015-2020, and from that point of view we must indeed try to find a way to come up with this development aid using our intellectual products that we have acquired in the EU membership negotiations process. And to that end, we formed this Council for Transition Processes, that is, the Center of Excellence in which we gather people with whom we then cooperate. In BiH, for example, there have already been over 130 participants from different seminars that convey this knowledge from reforms related to EU membership. Usually related to very practical things. We are doing this with Montenegro, in agreement with Serbia which has shown interest, in agreements with Moldova with which we have signed such an agreement. But it is obvious that we need to come up with a new way of doing this official development aid. There is also a trend in the decline in official development aid compared to BiH. Why do I mention BiH in particular? First because helping fellow Americans in other countries, therefore the same ethnic groups in other countries is something that both Hungary and Slovakia count as an integral part of their official development aid. And secondly, because the absolute majority in this regard went to BiH. The decrease in the amount, 2009 was 113 million kuna, and in 2011. 91 million kuna. We have done a lot of reconciling this official development aid, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, preferably a small number of projects with clear goals and mechanisms of reporting on spent assets because you have the most incredible things to finance for years, let's say one of those same things, famous folk costumes, so times I don't know how many years, so fences, so various things that are being done, which you don't have feedback for, are they made? Why does it take one project to start over every year? This later introduced something, something orderly with the idea of fewer projects, but with clearer results and measurable and verifiable results and with a clear goal of development aid. So it has to have a project, it has to have a function, it has to be in a development function. That's what we're introducing as a criterion and what we're... What is the conclusion of this situation that we are reporting here in 2011 is that it is necessary and this is now the case, to launch a dialogue with the central authorities. As for Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to coordinate and reach some common findings, which are key development projects and parallel to continuing dialogue with local authorities at local level, especially where official development assistance is a function of progress and prosperity of the Croatian community in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, this very experience of European reforms and European transformation represents one, we consider the positive link and the supplement that we now have within this concept. As far as the 2011 report is concerned, that's what I wanted to say, so that you can see more in which direction taught by some earlier experiences we are now going. But if I may end up with one idea or suggestion that maybe when we're not in the immediate submission of this kind of report. It's an interesting topic, it's a modern topic in international relations, a topic that takes on more and more importance, and maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to once organise a conversation on the concept and role of official development assistance in positioning Croatia on the international stage here in the Parliament, if there were any interest. I would be involved in this with my associates, with great pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30151	Thank you, Vice President. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs are coming up to debate, on behalf of the SDP club Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30152	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. As the Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister pointed out on several occasions, this is an extremely important instrument of Croatian foreign policy that should primarily serve to raise the reputation and influence of the Republic of Croatia in the region and the world. Since the Croatian Parliament has discussed this report for the 3rd time, but the term of office of the previous government is still visible from the report an old concept. I, too, am looking forward to announcements, reconciling official development aid especially when it comes to a region with an emphasis on Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I also look forward to the fact that the Republic of Croatia is increasingly heading towards its southern part, that is, the southern Mediterranean. And I am using this opportunity to appeal that at the state level we may also create a national strategy related to the Mediterranean, so also to the southern Mediterranean, which would include both political and economic priorities of the Republic of Croatia, which will, of course, be in the service of Croatian development aid. Since some criticisms have been made last time, I would like to structurally praise the way in which the report was made, given that it is very informative because it appears that 3 basic principles of Croatian development cooperation were guided in the data display. These are efficiency, transparency and complementarity, but equally so clearly shows that some weaknesses, i.e. some shortcomings both institutional and administrative, have not been overcome. There is indeed a better coordination between the authorities of the state administration, so in this past year. It is evident that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has done a job in terms of education and that an inter-resor group that has been established also shows that better reporting can be done but we still have fundamental shortcomings in planning, monitoring and implementation. In addition to everything I stated, the report is better and probably for the reason that in 2011, the Republic of Croatia was first involved in the Busen process on the effectiveness of development aid at global level. Therefore, we should also commend the Deputy Prime Minister's proposal to organise a special session, how to reconcitate it. It can be thanked for the fact that at EU level, Member States have joined in developing European policies of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid and have launched consultations with bilateral and multilateral partners and we can see the essential shortcomings in the very way of implementing development aid policy because many projects that are not listed can be classified as developmental but are primarily classified in Croatian culture and tradition conservation projects. Substantially, therefore, given the fact that in 2011, we singled out more than 108 million kunas or more than 14 million euros from the state budget, so Croatian taxpayers' money. It is necessary to point out these shortcomings which show that the implementation of these objectives did not respect the national development cooperation strategy or the objectives of the international organisations that we are members of and in which we are equally involved. The projects in the cultural sector cannot be listed under the thematic priorities set out in our national five-year strategy. This clearly shows the non-compliance of planning with the strategic framework for development cooperation at national level. 159 projects with a total value of 7 million 862 thousand kuna or 7.24% of total development cooperation did not cover any of the thematic priorities of the National Strategy. I have already said that Croatia's development policy is one of the main components of Croatian foreign policy and given all the strategic foreign policy objectives that must be presented with the EU's and International Organisations' objectives. Numberingly again, we have the same amount of 159 projects but 27.89 almost one third of all these projects implemented did not cover any of the UN Millennium Development Goals at all. We are constantly calling on the EU. A total of 33 projects and development cooperation programmes covered the priority of transfer of experiences from accession negotiations with the EU and reform processes to bring society into line with EU standards and only 3.85% of the total number of projects. Bilateral assistance from the BIH will be reminded that according to the implementation programme developed by the former Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, it was one of the objectives and improving the quality of basic health services. The report shows a large disproportionateness between planned budgets and their realisation in the health sector. So for culture, which is not the goal, and for health care where seven times the funds for the Mostar Clinical Hospital are reduced, its infrastructure equipment has been cut. And given the announcements of the current government, given that we have a new law, that we have a new office for Croats outside the country, since we will re-orient ourselves in projects that provide assistance to the BiH, the Croatian community in the BIH, so we should expect that in the next report, all the projects that we are talking about, regardless of what is less, are really developmental, health, socio-economic and educational. And no less important, official development aid was 0.03% of gross national income in 2011. In 2010, then one year earlier, the separation was 0.15% of GDP. Although it has already been noted that this amount was nominal because it was a donation of translation of legal gains to several countries of the region. It should therefore be borne in mind that by 2015, according to documents whose guidelines should be respected, we will need to separate the level of GDP allocation of 0.33% or even one billion kuna. In times of difficult Croatian economic and social opportunities, it is difficult to expect planned budget items to increase, but what is certain is that new funding modes should be found. Still, compared to earlier years, so even though this third year, there is a shift. Fragmentation is lower. Development aid is more regional and sectoral. Unlike the years before when we had 40 states where the orientations were, in 2011. It is directed to 19 countries with the need to point out once again that Croatia must have 5-7 partners, in line with the foreign and economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. Strategic orientation has been initiated in order to achieve efficiency. So already that year in several key partner countries in priority regions. These are primarily Southeast Europe, i.e. BiH, South Mediterranean, Afghanistan and several key sectors. What is very good is that Croatia has shown by who knows which way its solidarity and responsibility to help with humanitarian crises, i.e. Japan, Turkey, the Horn of Africa and Libya. The report also shows that enhanced co-operation with the civil sector and additional efforts have been made to strengthen entrepreneurship in countries providing official development assistance. In view of all of the above, the SDP Club will support the report, and I will conclude once again point out that, when granting official development aid, it must be guided by transparency criteria, given that we are spending money on Croatian taxpayers, that the need for public awareness of the need to give it is also necessary. That real economic opportunities of the Republic of Croatia should be taken but should not give up demonstrating solidarity, accountability and credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30153	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30154	Honored vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament, foreign ministers and European integration with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So there is one very important report in front of us about the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad in 2011 and this is what we heard the third such report that the Government delivers to the Parliament for consideration and acceptance and as we have already stepped down in 2013 I think we will get a fourth report in the Assembly benches for 2011. I have already said it is an extremely positive activity for the Republic of Croatia because through development aid Croatia becomes an important international factor. As a country that respects the principle of solidarity in international relations, we are among the countries that know well the principles on which the international order works and in which we actively participate in accordance with our development economic power. The report clearly shows and shows our positive effects on assisted areas where it was most needed. All the activities that have been carried out, the projects that have been implemented have strengthened our position in the frameworks of the wider international community, especially in the field of providing humanitarian and development assistance that we have been selflessly providing and in these very complex and difficult conditions of commitment both with us and in our wider environment. What we singled out in 2011 and directed abroad is not comparable to the isolation of other more developed countries, especially EU members. We have heard from the distinguished Minister Pusic many numbers and quantifications and I will not repeat them, but as a state we can be proud of because of the approximately in our situation and economic difficulties we have provided total aid of 109 million kuna or that is close to 15 million euros in 19 countries through bilateral and multilateral assistance but also aid to numerous international, regional organisations where this was most necessary and meaningful. Of course, all assistance is directed in line with the long-term interests of the Republic of Croatia in the region and our neighbourhood as well as towards the countries of Africa and Asia and where Croatian pensions are military forces where we are present with other international forces in peacekeeping missions. I am certainly thinking of Afghanistan as to what Minister Pusic was talking about. We have already shown ourselves towards closer and further neighbours in the transfer of EU knowledge to European accession processes, which is not negligible because it is shown we saw in a report somewhere at 8m euros. Donated translations will make it easier for them to travel the way we went because with a lot of pain and with the many obstacles we had, they will have fewer to the very act of signing an access contract. We have indeed been through a small Calvary that was mentioned earlier by Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor. I am here thinking of helping the translation of the BiH acquis, Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia, Kosovo, and you saw that translation of the legal gain was given to Albania at the request of Albania. Our humanitarian aid has also been sent to those most useful in Haiti, Chile, Pakistan, Albania and other destinations. It is clear that in such activities, the Republic of Croatia strengthens its international reputation. These are our solidarity investments for the better future of Croatia and all Croatian citizens in the country and abroad, which is our mirror in front of others, which is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia in its political role on the international stage. We, on the plan to provide official development assistance and should focus specifically on specific areas of concrete projects as we have done so far, once we join the EU. In the framework of further development of global cooperation, our activities will likely continue to be focused on the areas of Southeast Europe, Africa, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Latin America. As the 2011 report said, significant funds have been realised in the form of aid to unstable countries as an investment in peace. It is certainly important here to mention Afghanistan where aid is mainly directed to all essential and necessary forms from security to educational and health facilities and to small and medium enterprises, infrastructure and services assistance and all in the function of mission and peace in this country. The neighbouring BiH has seen from the report the largest individual recipient of development assistance, which is mainly directed towards health and hospital institutions in Mostar, Livn, Novi Bili and Orasje, then towards the scientific and educational system and the University of Mostar, where almost every third student from the Republic of Croatia is from wider space from Dubrovnik-Neretva County to Vukovar-Srijem County. In other Southeast European countries, Kosovo, Macedonia, Albania and Serbia, assistance has been provided to priority sectors of health and education and a number of other forms of education. Unfortunately, the report does not contain one fact. It does not also contain measures taken to control and monitor the targeted aid in order not to abuse the damage to priority sectors and the needs of citizens of those countries to whom the aid is intended. I believe that the relevant state institutions and valuable state services carrying out this significant foreign policy activity of the Republic of Croatia will take into account this fact in the same report as we will have for 2012. And in the end, I'd say this. We are a small and young country, but what we offer honestly and lovingly. We are thus expanding and building and making new friends, and when in what month if we join a large European family, we are ready to understand all the countries in their difficulties as we were alone or are still in a good part of the problem because of the growth of the number of unemployed, low standards and the fallen economy. But in the government, this serious political task is to take the country in the right direction, to raise the economy on its feet and finally restore dignity to the Croatian citizens as we deserve. The HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30155	Thank you. The replica has Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30156	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Filipovic, I could agree with you in this section if he had fallen behind and that he is necessary and that we expect control of the implementation. Only when it comes to BiH, given that you have taken the right all these years to impose yourself as the only protector of the interest of Croats and in general the citizens of BiH, we have not read the same report. It is your government that has reduced the donation by seven times, i.e. the funds of the KB Mostar, and has continuously invested in folk costumes, bell towers and other things that I do not also slow down, preserving culture and tradition is another thing, but what we need to concentrate on is development, education, infrastructure with the aim of developing the economy and health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30157	Replication response, Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30158	Dear colleague Mulic, we read the same report. I deliberately did not go to the secession of every amount of tranche delivered, the kuna that came to BiH institutions and I did not deliberately talk about the other as you say delivered and donated funds from the Republic of Croatia because this is consistent with one other article that stands in the Constitution. This is just attached to this report on assistance provided to neighbouring countries through various forms, and this is about two things that I mentioned. 8.8% is a slightly smaller amount sent to BiH in 2011, 2010. I have studied the report well, I have not entered the quantifications of these amounts, but I have mentioned very correctly what is the vital, national interest of the Croats in BiH. It's the University of Mostar and it's a university clinical center, a hospital center, it's hospitals in Livn, Oras and New Bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30159	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. This report for 2011 on the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad must be compared immediately to the fact that it is mentioned here, which is that the volume or amount of aid the European Union is providing, and in global terms, it is half of all aids. Thus, the European Union gives half of all aid abroad worldwide. The aid in this volume or amount is thus 53 billion euros for the European Union for 2011. What would that mean if we divided into the number of citizens of the European Union, which is about 500 million and then multiplied by the number of residents of one country, that would mean that somehow 530 million euros or 3.5 billion kuna would be lost in Croatia. And now I return to the volume or amount of Croatian aid abroad for 2011 of 0.03 gross national income or in what it says here is 108 million kuna or 14 million euro. Here we see this disproportionateness I will not say in the wealth or volume of aid that the European Union is giving, and in spite of the fact that there are 26 million unemployed in the European Union, and in spite of the recession and crisis that has affected the European Union as a whole, mainly the countries of the Mediterranean, or the South of the European Union, I am talking about Spain, Italy, Greece and others, in relation to, say, the rich north of the European Union. It is clear that this amount of Croatian aid is therefore totalling € 108 million or around €14 million in correlation with the economic and economic situation of the Republic of Croatia. When we enter the European Union, then we will pay our fee to the European funds that we have talked about many times here and critically and certainly, but it is inevitable, and in this case Croatia will also pay by entering the European Union a part of these fees will go to these European Union funds and thus increase the percentage of Croatia's assistance abroad in this percentage but also in absolute amount. According to the expectations of Europe or the European Commission, the Republic of Croatia was expected to reach the level of allocation for development aid of 0.17 gross national income. It is now in the report for this year that we are considering already in 2011 even during the last year of the HDZ government and its coalition partners 0.03%. In doing so, I do not intend to accuse that there would be no replica in this sense unnecessary, but it is indeed a matter and a reflection of the state, economic, economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. The comparisons are made when we talk about other countries, including those who have recently entered the European Union, then it can be seen that official development aid to the Czech Republic is, for example, 0.13% or 4 times greater than 4 and more than 4. Hungary 0.11%) also, Estonia also, Poland 0.08, Slovenia 0.13%, etc. When we talk about the distribution itself, so help you then we see that, and I am also personally and in the name of the club to say that I am satisfied with our constitutional provision on helping and supporting projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina where the constitutional people live, so one of the three constitutional peoples in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think there is nothing controversial about it. I don't know what to say about how these funds are used. I'd say it's kind of embarrassing to talk about money spent on people's costumes, I don't know what. Well, that's the culture of the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why do you talk so lewdly about it? And if I'm quite clear about, when you say, when you mention that SRP that I don't say everything together, then it's official development aid. If it is developed then it is known that it is a development aid for development as a colleague here said infrastructure, economy, health, education in our neighbouring Republic, which we are also relying on with 1000 km of what river limits so with the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and where our people live, one of the three constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, in 2011, this total aid was for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I'm not talking in kuna 39 million kuna. When you look at it in relation to some other costs, and even some local or regional communities in some I'd say Colloquitically such strange purposes, then it's really not much. But if we take the total aid of 0.03% of GNI or gross national income, and that's 108 million kuna, then this third is about or 35%, 88% of the total official development aid is probably a satisfactory figure, although I would like it to be much larger. And we all believe that we all do. When I talk about a hospital in Mostar, then we can notice that this material says that the Mostar Clinical Hospital was planned to implement a project worth 22 million kuna and 600,000 kuna, while only 3 million and 741000 kuna were spent during 2011. Health and Livna thank God and me next door Nuts in Savina is welcome anyway. We know what condition they're in there. A colleague of Jelecević's there. He knows well what state health facilities are there and that the wine and ship’s hospital is mostly the one that is always in hand. But okay about that now, it's not a topic, so we're not going to talk about it. With regard to other allocations of funds from official development aid, I can only say that it is good that the ministry is here and decided by the foundations and strategies and development aids to just spend on this. But it should not be ignored that maintaining the tradition and culture of Croats as a sign of their identity, including the existence of the territory of the state of Bosnia, is not a republic. The state of Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of the Federation and Republika Srpska, and it is a state. So, to support all projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially as outlined in the strategy, mainly development projects that I expect the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, so local self-government and all other entities will project, propose and run towards, to say this official development aid to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am also thinking about the Office that should assist in this, which is the Office for Croatians outside Croatia at the Government of the Republic of Croatia which was founded. I don't know if he's still alive. Either way, the HDSSB club will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30161	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Melita Mulic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30162	I'd like to thank the esteemed vice president. My colleague Grubisic, I would like to refer to two things in your presentation on behalf of the club, which is that the percentage of Croatia's assistance to the EU funds abroad will increase, so that this will mean something to Croatian taxpayers. I think it is worth mentioning here that the Republic of Croatia will also be able to use funds from the Structural and Cohesion Funds. So we're going to be in a position and a lot more resources to withdraw that can be used for this as well. The other thing is that I didn't want anyone to understand and I think it was very clear and it shows that anyone here is underestimating about costumes or culture. It's our constitutional obligation and it's done by some other government bodies. Official development aid is a much wider concept, and this government and this parliamentary majority are in the interest of the long-term and sustainable survival of Croats in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30163	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30164	Yes, you can see this concept of yours because we have a constant migration of the BiH population to Croatia and during the time, even more during your term of office. As for the broader and long-term concept, we will see the 2012 Report, and then we will discuss it. We'll see how many of these funds will be in your budget, distinguished colleagues. And as for the cohesion funds you're talking about, you were saying, not you, but your representatives of the executive government, that they're going to be about 13 billion euros. Now, I hear on the news this morning that it was down to friends of cohesion, Mr. Milanovic went abroad to deal with it, 11.5 billion. It'll still be 10 billion euros in a month. So don't say what you're not sure. Besides, I didn't say we couldn't withdraw funds from those funds, that's not what I was talking about. I was talking about this, therefore well-intentioned, that Croatia's participation with its funds in EU funds will also increase this percentage of 0.03% to a slightly higher percentage than it is now. Which is good. That's why I'm here, but you've come after me for no reason at all, haven't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30165	And the next replica, Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I have to refer to what my dear colleague said. The survival and survival of Croats in BiH is a much more complex issue than the perils she mentions, than the ones that are very important and the outsiders are very important. The prime minister once said he would not spend any money on Croatians in BiH. I didn't blame him for that because we have much more important, more important things, more important things than vital national interest for Croats in BiH. Please kindly advocate the thematic session on the legal, political and constitutional position of deconstituting Croats in BiH because it is too difficult and complicated for every Croat living in both the smaller entity of the RS and the Federation of BiH. Now we have a case, I have time, so I'll tell you this. To this end, the international community has taken the sword into its own hands that it does not respect the Constitutional Court of BiH's decision because the Constitutional Court has delegated certain decisions by high representatives where Croats in the majority Croatian Mostar are brought into a completely unequal position, and Bosniak representatives in the City Council do not want to accept the Constitutional Court's decision and are now servially approaching the Bosniak people's wishes in that Mostar. These are serious political issues of the remains and survival of Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30167	I let my colleague Filipovic know the line until the end, even though it was not in line with our Rules of Procedure because he did not talk about it, but I let you say it. But I also refer you to relevant parliamentary committees that they initiate, or prepare such a debate if such a debate occurs. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30168	Thank you very much. My colleague Filipović, you said it well, and I agree with your opinion completely. In fact, if this is said to mean long-term assistance to the Croats in BiH, then this debate and certain conclusions, as well as discussions on the emerging situation, should be carried out in particular in connection with the City Administration in Mostar and the rest very seriously and perhaps urgently so far. And as for the freaks you mentioned, I'm going to give you a photo from my 7th year, 6th year, where I took my picture with my papals down at Boban's Drago in Sovici and I'm not ashamed of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30169	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30170	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Just for a little while, maybe we weren't quite clear, or maybe I wasn't quite clear, so let me put it explicitly. Maybe I was a little too polite. As for the last one, therefore, it is very important and therefore it is important to report back on how the money was spent. Because it's not possible for the same society to get money for folk costumes five years in a row every year. This clearly means that the money was not bought by people’s costumes but by something else, or they were getting fat and thin each year so that they needed new folk costumes. But it's not real that it was. Therefore, development aid is of course only one and I agree there with those who spoke, one element in co-operation with BiH and with Croats in BiH. There is a whole range of possible cooperation and common topics but development and official development assistance is also important. And just because it's important in my opinion, it's important not to spend on what's not intended or not to spend non-transparently, and the typical example of non-transparent spending is if five, six years in a row the same society gets money for folk costumes. Because it's not possible that five, six years in a row need new costumes every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30171	Thank you very much. Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30172	Here's the Honorable Madam Minister of Society. It doesn't make one guy or a girl, but maybe there are 100 of them. You need to know that only, here's that, that shocking saying or the pumpkin comes around about 3.5 thousand kuna and you can't just come to the Parliament, you have to have something on you because someone would call you crazy. A total of one Slavonian costume is worth almost 3.5 thousand euros to you, I have no doubt that is the same value as Bosnia-Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30173	And the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30174	Thank you very much. I wouldn't discuss it like this, but I was going to say that I wasn't talking about it, so it's a nontransparent spending of money. And I'm against non-transparent spending of money, but the fact that there are so many of our societies in Bosnia and Herzegovina that need it. So, why was it given to one of them? Well, that, I'm an opposition I wouldn't know, but I know one, one society that gets regular and orderly, and I think very transparent spending of money and hasn't been established or ever questioned. Yes, and we know who it's about in Sarajevo. If names are to be named, and perhaps Mr Filipovic knows better about it. Which regularly receives from the budget or from 2 million or from 1 to 3 million regularly each year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30175	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30176	Thank you. I, however, must note that this is 2013 and I would not have this, dared to say or to conclude that it is thanks to my replicas, that this Croatian Parliament could not discuss this 2011 report. I can say that what is quality written, transparently that I will see it here as my colleague Grubisic said and supported it. However, I would like to warn a few things by having nothing against official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad. But I want to warn you of a few things, it's these state scholarships, Kenya, Mauritius, Namibia, so I don't mind. This is the amount per student 38 thousand kuna, and we all know how much the state scholarship for Croatian students is. So this is a few times and a lot more scholarship than Croatian students get. I don't mind, but in any case, I think that for this money no matter what it is about a postgraduate study, more students from all over the world could have been scholarshipd, especially from these most retarded countries, so to speak, by the most underdeveloped countries. As for the assistance of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I believe that the institutions, regardless of their deficit budget, are not only in the deficit last year, but also in the deficit since the Croatian state. I believe that this amount, regardless of how it was deployed, whether it went to cultural and artistic societies to obtain those costumes that were necessary to show at all that the Croat is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that this amount of 30 million kuna, that we all have to work together, not refuse the amendments when they are set up, and to me several times, such amendments have been rejected. And even here, I don't think of these parliamentary representatives now because they are now in the opposition from Bosnia and Herzegovina, or from the diaspora, they have raised their hand this time for such amendments, but I mean that last meeting of the Croatian Parliament where even the representatives of Mostar voted against my amendment to increase that amount. Here I was, as mayor, several times and officially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here I am personally and proud that the city of Đakovo participated in helping Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I mean, here's the parish of St. The Elijahs of the Prophets in Stoc on their priest Rajko Markovic, in which he operates, so within that parish, and the situation in that field is very dreary and complex. A cultural and artistic society that has already several times come to Đakovičke vestos and believe me cannot come naked and needs help just as well as as cultural and artistic society, but also as parishes and even to build monuments for defenders etc. etc. It bothers me in this report that here in 2011 we forgot that there are Croats in other neighbouring countries, and here I particularly think of the Republic of Serbia and other than these nearly 900 thousand kunas that went to a police centre in Belgrade, I think we could have done far better, no matter what the floor, in some European community, could have invested more quality funds and helped Croats in the Republic of Serbia. Also in Montenegro, we see that almost 100,000 have gone for the development of civil society, and a total of nearly 109 million kunas have gone. And that regardless, so on, I would say a quality report that we will support, that within all of this, that amount should also be helped by Japan, Somalia, etc. should be far better quality and distributed and thus spent normally with the control of the funds invested. On the other hand, I believe that with one of these reports, we should have gotten on the assembly benches regardless of what it is in 2013, and this is from 2011 that we could have done it immediately in 2012 so that the 2012 report would not come to us in 2014 or 2015. If I keep raising replicas like my friend Stazic says, he wants to change the rules of procedure and limit this number of replicas per club. It probably won't work, but with a report like this, I think we should have a report of similar assistance to the Republic of Croatia. And here's how we got close to the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia. When we were in a variety of hugs, in a variety of kisses, when we agreed everything possible to say the possibilities and adjustments so that Croatia would get ratification as soon as possible, I don't think of you, so as to get the ratification of this agreement I see that there is no help left for the Croats in the Republic of Slovenia, 0 kuna. So Slovenia is not mentioned in this report. So I now appeal to this government to primarily increase these amounts specifically to the countries in which Croats live but to have the same such reciprocity as those countries' assistance to our minorities living in the Republic of Croatia. It must certainly be a single report. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30177	Thank you. The first line has Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30178	You said at the beginning of your presentation one wrong remark that could lead to the wrong conclusion is that foreign students from other continents are scholarshipd more than our students by presenting an amount of 38 I think thousands of kuna for a student from Mauritius. That it is a real cost of study given to that foreign student but for our students it is not shown in such a way but will also show through budgets for both the material costs and the salaries of teachers and scholarships, etc. It is a real cost of study which as scholarships in this narrow sense is not reflected in our budget but through all these other items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30179	Next replica is Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30180	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Vinkovic's help is called the development aid of the Republic of Croatia and I really think it's a shame that the debate goes that way but maybe it's a good opportunity to say it. It seems to me, of course, to wear that doesn't belong to development aid for a year. And it certainly doesn't belong to development aid for five years for the same team. Development aid can be infrastructure, it can be education, it can be health care, it can be an incentive to entrepreneurship, but it can't be a folk costume. And I hope, the minister announced a certain reconstruction and re design of these aids, and I hope that our general foreign policy, especially given the policy towards Croats in other countries, will finally move away from this policy-making style in which we pay some strange activities that half of that money doesn't know where it went. The other half let the team take a drink and it's actually no use at all. So if help is developmental then it's developmental. If it is cultural aid, then it is not development aid, but it goes from some other funds, from some other funds within some other budget items. But then it must also be a help to culture in a way that promotes Croatian culture towards other nations and citizens in those countries. And not only is all this spent in a tight circle of our people without it actually having an effect on the position of those people in that country they live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30181	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30182	You see, dear colleague Coleman, I listened to Minister Andrej Zlatar Violic, who said culture is a function of development. Then you ask her what she meant by that. I believe that culture can function in all kinds of development. On the other hand, it's not about spending money, so through this help in one narrow circle, but first of all, if you're equipped with a theater and I hope we live in the 21st century, there's no barricade between the inhabitants of a certain city in BiH, Serbia or I don't know where. Then that culture can also be a function of development. The fact is that it writes here official development aid but then it could exclude humanitarian aid from that report because humanitarian aid can also be in the development function. So there are a number of things and I want to say first of all, I appeal that this aid is greatly increased especially in the countries in which Croats live. I don't mean Germany. Even there, he might need help. And as for these scholarships, so the average scholarship to the Republic of Croatia somewhere between 800 and 1,000 kuna per student were the child defenders were a particularly gifted student. And I agree that in that scholarship, I do not agree that that scholarship includes the salaries of workers in scientific institutions, colleges. I'd like one of our Croatian students to give him one such scholarship of 38 thousand kuna. Perhaps in some recent history, certain students were getting it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30183	Thank you very much. Now you've responded to a previous replica that you haven't reported, and it's completely wrong to interpret because a colleague said it was the cost of a study and not a scholarship. Melita Mulic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30184	Thank you. I would only like to look back on two or three of you said this was the 2011 report, and now we arrived in 2013 in the Croatian Parliament in December of the month, so in the year that was the reference. Whether it's the Rules of Procedure or your replicas, you judge it yourself. And one more thing, believe it or not, we're going to agree on something which is this bilateral aid, so in 2010, 97% of bilateral aid went to BiH and less than 1% in any country in the region. So given the recent census in the Republic of Serbia, given that the number of Croats in the Republic of Serbia is decreasing, I think that here and from here I should also make sure that, as part of what is official development aid and that humanitarian aid throughout Southeast Europe is distributed more equally and evenly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30185	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30186	But that doesn't mean that you two are replicating me now, so I have to get up. I almost forgot again. This does not mean that we must first of all reduce this amount but rather increase and help the Croats in BiH, but also in Serbia in Slovenia, Italy, Austria, we would also have the City Croats, etc. who want first of all to preserve both customs and everything else that binds them to Croatia. But I say the worst here is now in this debate about this report, first of all, toss the accent on folk costumes, I say that without these folk costumes there is no preservation of the identity of the Croatian people in any country. The other thing is institutions, other things and religious communities, but they must be helped in any case by the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30187	Replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30188	Dear colleague Vinkovic, the replica... here you have touched in your debate the issue of the night. No one here has anything against wearing but it cannot be the only public interest of the Republic of Croatia to promote the development and survival of Croatian beings in BiH alone. We're talking about help for 2011. The government and the ruling majority have decided to help in this way. We all have an interest in knowing how this public money is spent through cultural and artistic societies both through religious communities and through scientific communities. And I would also tell my colleague Vinkovic that one of the best ways of development assistance is to help with education. And here we are talking about several scholarships for countries that are in serious trouble, and here you have not mentioned how many Croatian students benefit from a scholarship from the not knowing Royal Academy in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, America, England means it is one obligation civilized that all developed countries try to help other countries especially through education and education of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30189	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30190	Watch the esteemed colleague Mandić, heritage, tradition, and even this folk costume serves to preserve identity. Here's all I'm asking you for is an answer, so it's not about some million-dollar amount that went for those folk costumes, but somewhere 108,000 kunas went to Montenegro to develop some female civil society initiative, I don't mind. You have to understand that I'm talking about a report that the HDZ government practically spent, so don't defend so much, someone might resent you at your own club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30191	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30192	My colleague Vinkovic made a few remarks. Namely, Slovenia and this assistance you spoke about Slovenia cannot be seen in reciprocity because Slovenia did not recognise the Croats in Slovenia as a national minority which is saddened and I really have no other words but regrettable, and there are between 40 and 50 thousand depending on a list. Secondly, Croatia is a country that has been deleted from the recipient countries and has become a donor. Thank God she's so not a recipient anymore. So we can't talk about helping Croatia. Now we've become a donor so much. And third, who's talking about controlling the spending so-called spending. People's costumes and I don't know what, and I wonder who's watching the spending of money that was given as foreign official development aid, for example. Somalia, Namibia, Libya is just a thorn in the eye of BiH and the Croats of BiH. It's a major thorn in the eye of all speakers whether they're in a replica or a debate on this side. So on the side of the Kukuriku coalition, it's constantly going on about it, as if Croats and BiH are criminals who are constantly spending money. So what are you saying? So stop what you're giving, the 38 million that was here in the budget when you insist so much on it. Which is why, well, you know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30193	My colleague Grubisic, you are replicating your colleagues to Vinkovic, not the coalition. ... Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30194	Dear counterpart Grubisic Boro, so here I heard a few days ago that there was one question, a question of an independent representative in the European Parliament, which is why the European Union donated some brothers to Egypt with 5 billion euros. Well, maybe that's the question, then, how does the European Union control those brothers in Egypt and what do they do with that money? On the other hand, I agree with you, this may be a question of the national minority and the issue of Croats in the Republic of Slovenia should be resolved in any case by bilateral agreements, and, on the other hand, with this status of Croats in Slovenia, we need to resolve that the Slovenians do not take away the Piran Bay and St. Geru.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30195	A colleague of Vinkovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30196	I answer...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30197	You're not responding to the line or you've had it before, nor did your colleague Grubisic have a replica and you're constantly...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30198	Did a man talk about the position of Croats in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30199	You are constantly opening new questions through the replica. Please sit down. I won't give you a warning, but sit down. A friend of Milinkovic's, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30200	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. .../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30201	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30202	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what you mentioned about the replica, so I've used it a lot in this High House, and often they might have laughed at me a little bit, he says now he's going to go back on agriculture and livestock. Now, I'm not going to do it this time, but I've been using the replicas institute to point out the difficulties that still stand in this important segment today. But further on, I'd like to say that I was much more fond of the institute to correct the incorrect allegations...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30203	Please. If you have a replica, say a replica, if you don't have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30204	I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30205	There's no introduction to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30206	My colleague Vinkovic, you were talking about forgetfulness, but I would add that to our shortness of memory. While our BiH brothers responded when the country was in danger then it was good, when Ivan Ljubicic, Cilic and others represent Croatian colors, then it's good, and now you see...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30207	Col. Milinkovic, please express your replica and release the tennis players or sit down. Please sit down. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30208	Here, I can't talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30209	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30210	Look, this is already fellow Milinkovic somewhere in some business provisions, but I understood what you were going to say. I appeal that we do not lose our nerves here in the Croatian Parliament, that even Boris responded to what he said, and he said among other things that he should not forget the Croats from BiH, and I said and appealed to this Croatian government to increase that amount. Even though the Croatian wonder country has become a donor and is not a recipient, with these 450 thousand unemployed, with this situation in the country, we can also be donors. As long as we don't donate to the brothers in Egypt to drive the Christians out of Egypt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30211	The final word of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30212	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I thank all the clubs and everyone who participated in the debate on this subject and reminds me still of this possibility to organise a conversation, I really think it's an important and serious topic. Just a few reactions to what was said in the debate. For example, Slovenia mentioned here is not the recipient of official development aid, in other words there is a classification... which determines which countries are, and this is related to GDP per capita who are the recipients of official development aid. Therefore, whatever co-operation is cultural, any cooperation with Croatians, for example in Slovenia, is not, does not enter the category of official development aid and is then not reported in this way. Second, the difference between humanitarian aid and development aid. In some modern concept, these two categories are thought to follow each other, so it starts most often with intervention with humanitarian aid, and then it continues to turn with time into a developmental process with, say, within the European Union, there are two Commissioners, one in charge of humanitarian aid and one in charge of development aid. So these are two let's say as portfolios or two ministries although of course there is this logical link between them. And finally, official development aid regardless of whether it is 2011, but logically, we will also try to maintain that official development aid reflects the country's political priorities as well. This was a time when one of the priorities was the Security Council, a non-permanent member of the Security Council. You can consider it good, bad, good, wrong, but I want to say that it is logical that this official development aid is designed in a way that reflects priorities at that time of national policy. And finally, in the future, we can probably begin to think about some different ways of providing official development aid. For example, Switzerland provides this in the form of a loan and Parliament decides on loans that are credited to individual projects and which, when completed, can be returned. Ours is going at this point, and especially when it comes to humanitarianism, she is, of course, irrevocable and not in that form. But this is also one way in which official development aid may be developed in the future. Anyway, thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30213	Thank you very much, Vice President. And the replica has a colleague, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30214	Thank you very much. And Madam Minister, the Croatian Office outside the Republic of Croatia has been established, the number of officials has been increased, there are speakers. Do you think that when it comes to proposals, the reports concerning Croats outside the Republic of Croatia do you think they should be included. I also want to know why they don't answer because they haven't responded either when the Law on residence or the Law on the Registration of Voters and not now that the proposal for a migration policy is in the House right now. Do you think we should still get their opinion, because they did, they are representatives of Croats outside Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30215	Reply to the replica of Vice President Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30216	The number of people has not been increased, but people who were once at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs have moved to the Croatian Office outside Croatia. That used to be part of the ministry. And as far as their opinions are concerned they're involved, they're involved in all these discussions. Among other things, they are included in the coordination for foreign and European policy which I am leading in the government where the topic of official development assistance, humanitarian aid, cross-border projects, European projects that we can work with municipalities and cities or county with units of local self-government across the border. So all these elements are included inside and it's only included in the concept of him. There was no office for 2011. So now in conceived official development aid absolutely for Croats outside Croatia and Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina runs the office. That's their proposal. You'll see that for example when the report is 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30217	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30218	Report on the implementation of official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia for 2011. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the implementation of the Official Development Assistance of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 is accepted Please enter into force. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 118 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30219	And we move to - Report on the work of the Directorate for Testing and Support of Victims and Witnesses for 2011 The Report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material into the boxes. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. You received the report at the session. Does the applicant want to further explain the report? Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30220	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable MPs and MPs. We are obliged to present a report on the work of the Directorate for Prosecution and Support for Victims and Witnesses for 2011. The system of redundancy or the system of conditioned and supervised freedom of perpetrators of criminal offences is applicable in all phases of the criminal proceedings both in the investigation phase and in the investigation procedure and in the decision on sanctions and after the imposition of sanctions for the purpose of special prevention against that perpetrator, but also with the purpose of general prevention or reduction of the risk of re-increasing the criminal offence. The report refers to the functioning of the testing system of Croatia in 2011. The most significant achievements in 2011 were achieved in the fact that 12 trial offices were renovated and decorated and equipped. It was opened and started with the work of 9 probation offices in the Republic of Croatia. Employees have received their initial education through the tender. Work for the general good and protective oversight has begun with a conditional conviction through probation offices. The report presents the design scheme where we have a central office and offices set up for the area of one or more counties. In particular, the delokrug, accommodation, number of employees and number of subjects in the work for probation offices Bjelovar, Dubrovnik, Osijek, Požega, Pula, Rijeka, Sisak, Split, Varazdin, Zadar and Zagreb 2. The report also presents the normative arrangement of the digestive system. It's the basic law on probation, and then the other sublegal acts. Statistics are presented on the adoption of judgments with the stated work for general good and protective supervision. The number of convictions by a particular probationary office, the number of verdicts by the competent court, has been shown. Statistics are related to groups of criminal offences in the Criminal Code, so the total number of cases was 2902, in 2000. 399 items have been given a measure of work for the general good and in 503 protective supervision. The largest number of items of protective supervision is in the trial office in Zagreb, and the largest number of objects of work for the general good is in the probationary office of Osijek. In 2011, 79 courts imposed alternative sanctions, and this is mostly about criminal acts against marriage, family or youth in 46% of judgments, and the work for general good was given in the context of the crimes of property, property delicacies. So, 37 convictions. Statistical data and subjects included in the digestive system during 2011 by age, sex, education, level of punishment, duration of probation, etc. Here is the largest number of protective surveillance convictions given to men 41 to 45 years of age, and a measure of working for the general welfare of men aged 21 to 55 years. I put out briefly what's meant to be a trial. The report also contains data related to the activities of the Victims and Witnesses Support Sector, because the judicial function is not and should not be directed solely at the prosecution and punishment of the perpetrators of criminal offences but also at the mitigation of trauma or reparation of the consequences resulting from or caused by criminal acts. In this context, supporting victims and witnesses provides important activity and one of them is contained in a sentence that we often say that without witnesses there is no justice. The Support Sector for Victims and Witnesses consists of the Department of Organizational Support and the Department for the Development and Coordination of the Support System. It shall include working on providing psychosocial assistance to witnesses and victims to provide general legal information on victims' rights and witnesses, intervening in the organisation of physical protection if necessary for the victim and the witness, organising access to the competent judicial body for witnesses and other participants called for questioning in criminal proceedings, providing assistance via telephone. The coordination of activities relating to interventions in the provision of physical protection shall also be carried out. It shall also cooperate with domestic and foreign authorities involved in the process of supporting victims and witnesses in criminal proceedings. The departments shall obtain and draw up reports on the state and specific needs of victims and witnesses, coordinate the work of all bodies, organise and conduct the education and psychological supervisory of department and volunteer staff who are significantly involved in the work of this sector, participate in the development of strategic documents for the protection and improvement of the rights of victims and witnesses, draw up recommendations for equating practices in dealing with victims and witnesses. And here is a brief description of perhaps a few data during 2011 provided assistance for 18 domestic witnesses before the domestic court, for 85 domestic witnesses who were heard on request before the domestic court, 103 witnesses received assistance from the sector in a hearing before foreign judicial authorities, and 15 foreign witnesses in front of domestic courts. The largest figure of course refers to the most significant part of this sector, which is 258 interventions, i.e. providing psychological assistance to victims or witnesses. The important activity is also the one relating to administrative and all-out assistance to the Commission's activities in monitoring and improving the support system for victims and witnesses. Because this commission is the professional and advisory body of the Government whose first and primary tasks are to develop the National Strategy for Victims and Witnesses to standardise the treatment of victims and witnesses for all institutions not only the criminal justice system but also other institutions with which the witness can meet or the victim before, during or after the initiation of proceedings and processing of the criminal offence. It is important to develop protocol and implement this protocol, monitor, monitor, evaluate work and all with the purpose of providing better support to victims and witnesses. In 2011, the commission held 4 sessions. And in conclusion we can say that both the testing and protection of victims and witnesses are an integral and important part of the system not only for the functioning of the judiciary but also for the wider. And their further development that has been achieved over the past and this year that is under way certainly contributes to making our country a legal state in full terms with the protection of the individual rights of each citizen and its fundamental human rights. Here, that's short, and the details are visible in the accompanying report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30221	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HSU Club, a colleague of Vishny Fortuna's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30222	Thank you very much, highly respected vice presidents, ministry representatives, colleagues and colleagues. With regard to the 2011 report on the work of the Directorate for Testing and Support for Victims and Witnesses, I would like to point out, therefore, that the Prosecution Act was passed in 2009, and the new law came into force on 1.01.2013. The trial is conditional and supervised freedom of perpetrators of criminal offences during which probation officers carry out procedures aimed at reducing the risk that the perpetrator does not repeat the offence again. Prosecution jobs are carried out with the aim of protecting the social community from perpetrators, its resociation, reintegration within the community by affecting risk factors associated with the conduct of criminal offences in order to reduce the risk of relapses. The Prosecution Act has put probational tasks in the jurisdiction of the Testing Authority as an administrative organisation in the justice ministry system made up of the central office and testing offices. The Central Office shall monitor the improvement and supervision of the legality of work and conduct in the probation offices and carry out administrative and inspection oversight of the work of the probationary offices. In order to carry out the tasks of the Central Office, the Testing and Support Sector for Victims and Witnesses has been established. 4 departments have been set up to carry out the work of the Prosecution Sector, and 2 departments to carry out the work of the Victims and Witnesses. They are designed for the field of one or more counties and currently have them in 11 cities, with two offices in the City of Zagreb, one for the City of Zagreb and one for Zagreb County. According to the law of probation operations are carried out by civil servants, probation officers who have appropriate professional training, work experience and competences to work with perpetrators of criminal acts. In the central office according to this report in 2011, it was employed, speaking was employed, perhaps a new employee, 26 employees, and in the probation offices of the Republic of Croatia a total of 66 probationary officials were employed. In the part of the report, which speaks of a conditional conviction with protection and work for the general good at large, the probation sector received a total of 1067 convictions in 2011, which imposed criminal and legal sanctions on a conditional person with protective supervision or work for the general good at large. Of this total number of convictions received, the protective conviction was issued in 194 and the work for the general good was delivered in 873 convictions. The report shows that there has been a rise in the number of convictions received to deliver protective surveillance with a conditional conviction from 2004 to 2008, and after 2008 to 2011, there has been a decline, a sharp decline in judgments, while we have continued growth in the work for the good in general. This information may also be interesting and we can think about it, let's just say that's why. Now, my kind of thinking would, I'd say when, if, on the one hand, it was the beginning of saying protective supervision such a measure because it was growth, it might have been more interesting, interesting. On the other hand, whether its decline in saying later years may have been conditioned by the punishments being imposed, so it was not possible to express such a measure. Or perhaps it was the reason that there were no probation offices before, and it was not possible to implement such measures. However, it is certainly here to commend the earlier work of Commissioners who, without the systematic support of the probation offices, whom they were not then, directly with the Ministry of Justice, implemented these measures. I believe that involvement in the execution of work for the greater good, both convicts who have the opportunity to help others and the wider community. Later in the report, it is evident that the largest number of convictions with protective supervision have been imposed higher, in most cases they are men, but they are 41 to 45 years of age, which is again, according to my judgment, to be commended because, the willingness of a person is related to the rehabilitation not only at that age, for all is the willingness of the persons ready for resociation. I continue to believe that, in relation to the number of unrealised and measures put forward, it should also be commented for future proposals to have a priority in execution, given that, as far as we have seen, there are still not enough probation officials, that they have the priority of convicts for acts against marriage, family and youth who make up 46% of the convictions with protective supervision. We think that working with them should begin as soon as possible, because together we will all give priority to the protection of the interests of the rights of children and of the whole family. Interesting data that the municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia had the most pronounced protection and work measures for the general good, that is, of course, Zagreb as the largest, Rijeka, and the smallest is the Municipal Court, the least ruled by the Municipal Court in Požega. Certainly a significant contribution to the execution of a conditional conviction with protective supervision is both a special obligation and a security measure whose purpose is to eliminate the dangers and the re-enforcement of criminal offences. If the convict does not execute them, and could execute them, a conditional sentence with protective supervision and special obligations will be called off. The report shows that the most frequent expression of the obligation to withdraw from alcohol addiction and intoxicating drugs is the correct specific obligations imposed with conditional convictions with protective supervision. There were 52 convictions in the health care institution or in the treatment community. This obligation to undergo treatment, to remove mental and physical disorders and to regularly report protection services. Of the security measures, mandatory treatment and mandatory psychiatric treatment are most common. Let me take a brief look at the experience in the City of Zagreb which, of course, arises in accordance with the law and one contribution to this report. So in the City of Zagreb, the Ministry of Justice has since 2002 achieved valuable cooperation with certain institutions, which was then 8 institutions that had a commissioner. Continued co-operation is very important to me, where the performance of the work for the general good is done, it has also taken place with associations, except for institutions operating in the City of Zagreb, and it is certainly an indication that this alternative way of executing sanctions has been accepted and recognised as successful. I believe that involvement in the execution of work for the greater benefit of both convicts who have the opportunity to help others, i.e. to work for the benefit of the community, and associations that are provided by this means to carry out assistive technical tasks. In order to present more detailed information, to include in the implementation of the work for the general good on the loose, the City of Zagreb and the Prosecution Office during January this year organised several stands to inform associations and institutions about the work for the general good on the loose. As a result of the presentation of the work of the Prosecution Office and the exchange of experiences between institutions and associations involved in the implementation of work for the general good at large, seven other city institutions have also been contracted. So right now we have 13 city institutions in the field of social care. Let me just say, here I'd just like to point out some examples of good practice, as well as some examples of bad practice from the field. So, an example of good practice is certainly gaining work experience, socializing, learning responsibility. What we have come across as examples of bad practice is very often disrespecting agreements, arrivals and.../The speaker does not understand. excuse, rejection of jobs, complaints I do for your workers, they do not work now and therefore the head of the institution spends a lot of time with the employees. However, I must point out here that we really work very well with the trial office in Zagreb, and that is what we do in walking and simply solve. Finally, I want to highlight the importance of the education of new staff, all those experts who will work in the future to implement these measures, as well as informing all these institutions and institutions and civil society organisations that can be where they will be implemented. From the above, indeed, the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30223	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30224	Thank you very much, Vice President and Deputy Minister. The basis for the development of the probation service was the Law on the execution of prison sentences and the Law on probation. The trial is a model of the professional reaction of society to criminal and criminal behavior. Such a way of dealing with criminals exists in all civilized countries. It is a model of the organised professional reaction of the company to a relatively less harmful and less dangerous but still criminal or criminal behaviour of individual persons. So far, numerous foreign experiences, as well as the results of scientific research, show that from a social point of view for some categories of perpetrators of criminal acts and infringements, trial treatment is better than legal treatment because it better treats a sensitive issue of the necessary proportion of freedom and freedom of convicted persons. Prosecution is a system of humanisation, enforcement of criminal sanctions and more effective resociation and reintegration of perpetrators of criminal acts into the social community. It is about reintegration into the community through the influence of those risk factors that have in many cases led to criminal offences such as those. Rehabilitation of alcohol, drugs and the like. The prison system is very expensive compared to probation and practice has shown that short-term prison sentences are not the best solution. The first report on the work of the Educational and Support Office for Victims and Witnesses is before us. This is a 2011 report. A year. In the Republic of Croatia there are 12 local probation offices as we have heard from Deputy Minister, 9 was established in 2011, and they started of course with the opening in 2011. So the fact that the offices started opening in 2011. In the years before us, the 2011 report tells us that today we are discussing the results of a young system. In the first year of the work of the probation offices, it was mainly the execution of verdicts that gave the work for the common good at freedom and conditional convictions with protective supervision. Although the Prosecution Act was adopted during 2009 through the establishment of probation offices in 2011 the sampling system for the period of this report was still at the very beginning. In late September 2011. The EU delegation to the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and the UK Probation Service of the Czech Republic officially marked the start of the implementation of the IPA TWINNING project for the development of the testing system in Croatia and approved 1.2m euros for the sustainability of the development of the EU probation system. The work of the probation offices has shown how we see it from this report a series of difficulties that this young system has encountered. The area of office or individual offices is generally quite large. In the areas of some offices, public transport connections are very bad or nothing. Financial expenses upon arrival in office and later to go to work in one of the legal entities as well. The offices met with a large number of cases and with insufficient number of probation officials, lack of official vehicles. Another problem is the inability to find a sufficient number of legal persons who can organise the execution of sanctions for the general good at large, and most of the legal persons available can receive a very small number of such persons and are willing to set different conditions in order to accept them at all. There were also such difficulties that the limitation of the data from the verdict occurred and the long wait for the check of the address by the MUP was a major time-out from the beginning of the work to the verdict, i.e. to the execution of the i.e. The call to the prodigal office is startled by the fact that it was once more than ten years apart and the circumstances of the convicts have changed considerably and so on. These are the difficulties that I hope in further development of the digestive system since 2011 on here at least partially overrided. Those difficulties are mentioned in this report in a smaller or larger manner in each testing office and certainly affect the quality of the enforcement of sanctions as well as the efficiency of time management. Therefore, further insurance and improvement of working conditions in probationary offices are needed. As regards support for victims and witnesses, even though a decision was made in January 2010 to set up a monitoring and improvement committee for victims and witnesses' support systems as a government advisory body and for that system, it took relatively long time to operate. Among other things, the commission's task was to develop a national strategy to support victims and witnesses, to work and to decide on the commission was arranged by the Rules of Procedure, which was adopted with a delay of 10 months from the establishment of the commission, so that it was not until 11 months after its establishment and, more precisely, in mid-2011, that it started working on the creation of a national strategy. On the other hand, given that regular procedures and transactions have been conducted in the victim support sector during 2011, the report of the segment for 2012 will also have additional data and documents. And finally, given that 2011 was the right and real beginning of this system we believe in further development of the system of testing and support for victims and witnesses and therefore the SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30225	Thank you very much. And before we break, we'll hear the HDZ Club and colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30226	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister. So here we are talking about the report on the work of the Board of Testing and Support for Victims and Witnesses for 2011 and now we're in a specific situation, now it's the beginning of 2013 we talk about the report, I think it's a good thing that we're talking about although what I'd already said was inaccurate and will not give the right and not give the right picture of the state of implementation of the screening measures. For reasons like I said, it's a report for the year in which the old Probation Act was worth it. This Croatian Parliament received a report for 2010 at the end of 2011. Which has never been discussed in this Croatian Assembly, and here we are now discussing the 2011 report. But the real picture I believe will be obtained in the next 2012 reports and mainly for this year 2013. And that is why I would like to say again that it is good that the applicant accepted the remark and that in the new law of 2012 there was a provision under which the Croatian Parliament discussed this report, because it was an institute which I would not say very new in Croatia, therefore, and in the laws before the Prosecution Act, the institute was introduced but was somehow shyly applied or not applied at all, and one of the reasons was that there was no constant control or questioning which was the reason. Why do I think we'll get the right picture in the 2012 report and especially in 2013? Because, in the meantime, they have entered into force and the laws that will have a significant impact on this Testing Authority are, above all, the new Penal Code which entered into force on 1.1.2013., which extended the activity or jurisdiction of that part of the trial and in relation to the work for the general good and the possibility of giving some special measures and obligations which will be all in the jurisdiction of overseeing this Testing Office. He also entered the full range of 1.9. 2011 The law on criminal proceedings which also gave these offices and central offices some additional tasks. As far as this report is concerned, we can read, namely what else I would like to say, the law on probation was passed in 2009, mostly in 2010 and 2011, which was still set up by the offices by the Commissioners who acted in part and before these transactions went completely to the state administration and in which the provision under the 2009 Prosecution Act was made by permanent civil servants. So we can read from this report that at that time all the rooms for probation offices were opened, so from the Agency for State Property Management and from the units of local self-government, 9 testing offices were opened, that the first probation officers had started to carry out alternative sanctions and that the number of commissioners still in charge of those cases that were under way and for whom, due to the shortest time of surveillance, it was not appropriate to give to new civil servants, that the newly employed officials had passed the education and that the temporary most necessary equipment was equipped with these offices. We also see from the report and we have this systematic data presented to us from 2004 to 2011 that the number of convictions issued for conditional convictions with protective supervision and work for the general good on the loose is increasing. There is certainly systematic work both on the education of judges and on the promotion of this institute, so work for the common good and also on conditional convictions with protective supervision as measures similar to and intended to punish, above all, the perpetrators of criminal offences which are said by random perpetrators often who do not systematically commit criminal acts, are not relapses etc. That punishment is more purposeful, so that they feel a certain social condemnation, that they bear the penalty but that they are not put under social conditions, in this case a prison where they might be subject, especially in the case of young people, to a further criminal infection. So in that sense this is a good indicator, so these judgments of this type are systematically growing. What we see is the question, the question of execution. For the most part, conditional convictions with protective supervision are better carried out, and as more demanding in the implementation, I would say condemnation to work for the general good on the loose, as we see from all these statistics shown here, that I am not reading them in detail now, and especially what we read is that many items remain on the day of 31.12.2011., there are many items left and waiting for the execution from which we can read that the offices are not yet established, or are not sufficiently capacitated. In this regard, I hope that in 2012, further efforts have been made to minimise this as much as possible. Here we also have a presentation of data by courts on the terms of these sanctions, but I see no reason why if 79 courts are said to have given them alternative sanctions, why do we not have all but only some courts, but we can see that the difference between court and court is. And of course this probably corresponds to both the total number of cases and the judgments in the court which is not shown, so it's actually statistical enough if I can put it that way worthless, if there's no comparison with the total number of judgments. What we can also follow up on these measures by types of criminal offences, we note that they are pronounced mainly for crimes against property and in the case of criminal offences against the value of protected international law, however, it is actually drug abuse and they are probably all less penalties referred to in the former paragraph 1, 183. The KZ where the perpetrators were then told work for the common good on the loose. Also in the case of these crimes against marriage, family and youth, it is child neglect, etc., a high degree of measures imposed because it is assumed that there will be a possible through these penalties of resociation. We note that from 2010 to 2011, the number of alternative sanctions imposed for these drug abuse offences, which would actually be interesting to know why. Here's just an indicator, we don't know why. All statistical indicators of persons involved in the trial must comment that they also seem actually unnecessary but useless. Why, because we're talking about gender representation in these alternative sanctions, about good representation, about qualifications, but it doesn't mean anything to us if we don't have data on the general population of convicted persons. So nothing means more to us, men are more often given alternative sanctions than women, and more often to men of a certain age, 40 to so many years, more qualified or high school students. It seems to me that this group is also the majority in the general population of convicted persons, so if we don't have the same data, then they're actually there for themselves not telling us anything. It is also evident that, most often, those penalties are imposed on criminal offences for which a sentence of up to 6 months is imposed or fines, of course, because so far the applicable law has only been possible and this situation will certainly change by way of force of the new KZ. What is even more interesting, and these are contracts with legal persons to work for the common good. We heard here about the problems that arise, of course, we heard from the minister that the work for the general good also costs as much as the day of the prison, but whatever it takes to insist on implementation. In this 2011 report, we see that 55 new people from all over Croatia have concluded contracts, I believe that to date there are more and more and that this measure is being implemented in greater numbers than this report. Especially here we have shown work in all offices, but note some offices are not established, some practically as in an office in Zadar which was founded but practically in 2011 did nothing that is seen from statistics on the number of cases. But I particularly stress the importance of these probation operations in the pre-trial procedure, therefore for the purposes of the State's attorney, in the case of a decision on prosecution and for the purposes of the court, when determining the measure of security of presence, precautionary measures or when deciding on the choice of criminal sanctions. I believe they're extremely valuable then structured reports from the probation office. As for the Support Sector for Victims and Witnesses, this is also the same newspaper if I can say back several years extremely important. Therefore, victims and witnesses should also be helped in the exercise of their right, and witnesses should also be encouraged in cases where they are threatened in case of testimony or sacrifices that may come into unpleasant court encounters. So we believe that this sector is extremely important. We see that it works, and especially here in these cases when domestic witnesses have to be heard before foreign courts or when a foreign witness comes before a domestic court. So there is support psychologically and materially always extremely important. Well, we can see that in 2011, there were these 103 cases where a domestic witness went to a foreign court. In most of these cases, these are exactly war crimes trials. This testimony is always difficult, psychologically burdensome for a witness, painfully and therefore psychologically needed and fully materially and logistically. Here's what it is to conclude that this program, therefore, and the work of the Research Administration in 2011 seemed good, but not enough. So he has to make systematic progress. And when we passed the law, we warned that the intended funds mentioned in the law would probably not be enough and that we would not be able to increase the number of probation officers as necessary in view of the new tasks of this administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30227	Thank you. I'm setting a break until 3:00, and that's when the first one's the turn of the HNS club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30228	Here we go with the debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representative Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30229	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected deputy ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS Club will support this report on the work of the Directorate for Testing and Support of Victims and Witnesses for 2011. In fact, during almost a short period of time, we debated a lot in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, we have also passed a law on probation all with the aim of carrying out procedures aimed at reducing the risk of re-increasing the crime through the conditioned and supervised freedom of the perpetrators of the crime. Of course, we are setting new standards regarding the UN Resolution and the Council of Ministers of the EU. The purpose of the establishment of the Prosecution Office is to humanise the enforcement of criminal sanctions, more effective resociation and reintegration of perpetrators of criminal offences into the social community and to organise assistance to the victim of the injured, and what is also quite important is the provision of assistance to the families of victims and families of the perpetrators. Of course, by introducing the trial, the number of convicts in prisons is reduced, thus liberating facilities in penitentiary penitentiary facilities that are otherwise re-retracted by more than 20%. And then that also finally leads to financial savings that are not negligible. According to calculations, one day of prison costs the state three days of probation. Of course, throughout that report, when an analysis is carried out, the framework operational programmes that are in front of the Testing Office are also defined by people who have all these programmes, projects and, of course, the objectives that are set to be implemented. So it's always good to mention what it's like to see really one great intensity, one great activity to solve such a problem. First of all, trial jobs are used to assess the criminal risks and tectonic needs of the perpetrator. This means the likelihood of a reenactment of a criminal offence and of damage that the perpetrator may do to the social community, to another person or to himself. These are also tasks for the establishment of an individual programme of conduct, supervision of enforcement of obligations towards the resolution of a State lawyer when deciding on criminal prosecution according to the principle of purpose, procedures for the execution of a conditional sentence with protective supervision and work for the general good at large. Monitoring the enforcement of the precautionary measure, the obligation to report regularly to a specific person or to a state body, the supervision of the implementation of the measures identified solutions, the determination of the prison in the home. It's also business to make reports to prisons, or penitentiaries. Control of the paroled convict, making reports on the perpetrator of the State Attorney's Office, the court and the judge of execution, participation in the organisation of assistance and support of the victims, the injured, the family of the victim and the family of the perpetrators. Jobs could still be listed a lot, but while you can see just how much it takes to list in that part, you can see a great complexity of these jobs especially for people who are going to do these probational tasks. These officials and those persons must be of high education, must be from the field of social pedagogy, social work, psychology, pedagogy or other social or humanistic areas. It is also a condition that they must have a working experience and competence to work with perpetrators of criminal offences. The testing officers shall have the power to collect data on persons involved in the sampling procedures and shall be able to make an examination of the official documentation of the competent authorities and legal persons and shall request them to supply the relevant documentation. In order to also see what is the scope of all the data we have received in the materials when it is established that the probation sector received in 2011 a total of 1067 convictions in which criminal and legal sanctions have been imposed with protective supervision or work for the general good on the loose. Out of the total number of convictions received, a protective conviction was issued in 194 convictions, which accounts for slightly more than 18%, and the work for the general good at large was delivered in 873 convictions. That's 81%. Of course, as regards the part for work for the general good at large, it shall be determined for at least 10 to 60 working days with a deadline for execution which cannot be less than 1 month or longer than 1 year. Following the above, it was found that the work for the general good on freedom for 51 to 60 working days was the most stated in 2011 in 480 convictions, which makes up 57%, the highest and then much less make up work for 21 to 30 days, 13%, and work for 31 to 40 days, which is slightly less than 10%. Of course, in that part, we also have a lot of presented extensive materials and statistics that serve to analyze all these activities around work in probation. I'd like to point out a few things here in particular. First of all, here is the finding that, as in 2010, the courts gave the most judgments replacing prison sentences with the work of general good at freedom for 60 working days. Also, what would also be good to point out that working for the general good on freedom in relation to the number of subjects on the job, which makes up 606 cases in relation to the number of cases that make up 207 items, is a large number of cases awaiting execution, that is 1586 cases. This is what really after one such analysis needs more attention in that part because the number of items waiting to be executed if it is even a year and up to ten years then indeed already and after that one time, it is very much changing those initial conditions, the initial solutions that have been defined. Finally, he would also like to note that of the total number of persons for whom judgments were received in 2011 462, or slightly less than 50%, were previously punished once or more. It is indeed a problem that indeed, there are many returnees, i.e. relapsers, and in that part indeed through this procession system and, of course, many more engagements throughout the system. That part of the returnee needs to be dealt with. Of course, up to the specific obligations imposed under a conditional safeguard conviction, the most frequently stated obligations are to make withdrawals against alcohol addiction and intoxicating drugs in the healthcare community or the treatment community, and that makes up over 51%. And the obligation to undergo treatment for the removal of mental and physical disorders and the regular reporting of protective surveillance services is given in one verdict. Of course, after these analyses, you can also see an intensity that needs to be given more attention in the future, and this speaks not only of people who will be closely specialised in such a problem, that they can deal with it, but also in part of material and technical means that will help better to address such withdrawals and addictions to alcohol and drug abuses. Of course, the judgments given for the general good on the loose may be carried out in legal entities with which a contract for the execution of the work on general good on freedom is concluded. So far, 313 contracts have been concluded, which means that in the Republic of Croatia, sanctions for the general good on freedom can be carried out in those legal entities. Of course, this data for 2011, 2012, here in 2013, is really our job when we talk about the number of testing offices in Croatia, where 12 and with these contracts are then, means that some practically 30 we have contracts per trial office. Which is quite insufficient because when we point out in that part what are the problems that highlight the probation office, then you can see that there has to be a much bigger width. Here is if we said that the trial offices were established in 12 cities, Bjelovar, Dubrovnik, Osijek, Požega, Rijeka, Sisak, Split, Varazdin, Zadar, Pula and two in Zagreb. In 2011, only 9 offices were set up with them starting in the second half of 2011. And that means that this methodology, i.e. the data that they haven't covered all year round, and it's really good to have it, because if we compete with 2012 it's going to continue to do a lot of good to the office and people that we can find an adequate solution in that part. Do you... What did we say that makes people? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There were 22 officers from the Central Office, the Coordination and Development Office of the Prosecution System, and a comprehensive number of officials in probation offices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is always necessary to see whether this number corresponds to current conditions and needs, and yet it is seen that what is currently current, each employment carries a certain risk, a certain cost. But as far as you can see, the biggest problem is that you can get a professional and quality frame that is capable of dealing with this problem as well as testing. Of those offices that gave their report, they state their problem, their activities that they were doing in, here's the time. Of these, it would draw only a few, let's say, in the work of one, several offices except technical issues and the number of employees the greatest deficit arises as well as the unresolved issue of insurance for convicts and payment of their travel expenses. There is also a problem of lack of vehicles and mobile phones, as the area under the jurisdiction of their work is very large, and public transport connections are very bad or nothing. The problem is also stressed that very few legal persons can organise the execution of a sanctions for the general good at large. And most of the legal entities available can receive very few such persons and tend to set different conditions just to avoid them at all. Unfortunately, there is also the problem of embezzling very good intentions, and wishes and wills, contracts are signed with the desire that people in that part can and want to be accepted for trial work. And then there's this change of opinion, and in all ways it's starting to get complicated. I can say this on my part, really here in the field of office in Varazdin where and the city, where I mayor have signed a contract and already several people have actually carried out a trial procedure in our area as a socially beneficial work. And we met this problem really firsthand, but I can thank the head of the field office and us that we've solved all this and we're really open to carrying out such a project. Of course, in the context of the report on the support sector for victims and witnesses, 2 departments, departments for development and coordination and support of victims and witnesses and also the department for organising support for victims and witnesses under previous supervision of victims and witnesses' support departments in criminal proceedings and criminal offences. Their report shows that many department activities, many tasks, and regular jobs have been carried out. Of course, there's still a lot of work to be done on the operationality of each of those departments so that this report shows, and I wouldn't particularly in that part of it point out or repeat anything. What can finally be concluded about this report? So each report has to define the current factual state and can define a specific objective, a message that should, of course, always change for the better and some mistakes that have been made to correct. Of course, what I always said when we were talking about probation in law, and I would like to repeat that once again that the most realistic answer could vote, we can all expect as much as we invest in this project ourselves. The framework is set and the success depends on careful impelation and monitoring and evolution of implementation, the permanent education of professionals for the exercise of expertise, the public of citizens, politicians and the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30230	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30231	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, Deputy Minister, fellow Members and colleagues, we have a report on the work of the Educational and Support Administration for Victims and Witnesses for 2011. Prior to the very reference to the report that professionally and nomotechnically well-designed methodologically. It should be said that we are in the meantime in 2012. In the years already passed, the Prosecution Act is in line with both the development and development strategy of the Croatian judiciary as one of the criteria of Chapter 23 for Croatia's entry into the EU, and that this year we should also discuss a report which should in any way be supported but that even more recent legal solutions have been made as an alternative method in the Croatian judiciary even more successful, even more flexible conditions of the Croatian judiciary. It should also be noted that our trial system is also based on the recommendations of the EU Council of Ministers at the UN Conventions on International Documents, so all those legal foundations that were the basis for the adoption of legal solutions, I say we have already discussed it as a new legal solution in 2012. According to the trial system's report, we can see that it's the basic intent of testing has achieved its purpose and measure in some ways so far. But surely we can never be satisfied, that all efforts should be made to apply such an alternative method as one rehabilitation method, so the effect of these measures on the perpetrators of minor crimes in an ever greater form. It's a good setting-up of probation offices in 12 cities in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be made possible when these offices are established that they are both technologically and technically equipped, to have all those conditions so that they can successfully achieve their purpose. We should also make additional and financial and professional efforts to further improve and educate probationary officials in terms of trends in development and European rights and Croatian rights, and therefore make it possible to make excessive financial sense to tryout offices that they can function. We saw that we were making a budget for 2013. A year due to the consequences of the economic crisis, but for some other reasons this division for the Ministry of Justice is projected about 800 million kunas less. So we can't expect a perfect judiciary, a new modern development of the Croatian judiciary if there isn't enough funding and, in my opinion, it's not a good measure for us at the club to reduce the funds in this part while at the same time by laws and by a package of judicial laws that we're passing. One of them was the Law of Testing not to provide enough material resources to really apply the law in reality. According to this 2011 report, For a year, we see what all rehearsal offices have been doing, as well as the central office and offices in the cities of the Republic of Croatia and what is good, it is good that the trend of saying these measures in the judiciary is greater and that before the investigation process, the investigation process itself and the protection measures given to the perpetrators, unfortunately, in some numbers, the increased number of cases is seen as a tendency to repeat the works done. It is about acts of minor importance and minor criminal offences. Therefore, further efforts should be made to prevent this re-renaissance in this system and the development of the sampling system itself, we are confident that the education of officials will also require further efforts both professional and human and all other efforts to reduce this re-renaissance. In the very report on support for witnesses and victims, we see that there has also been additional efforts and shifts in relation to previous years, and all that is thus foreseen by the legal standards for testing has been somewhat fulfilled in 2011. A year. We as the HDSSB Club each perfecting the Croatian judiciary, any additional efforts that will go towards easing and rearranging those perpetrators of criminal offences which are acts of a small criminal nature or criminal nature to return them to society, to be aware of the conduct of their work and to be aware that their work is a great criminal sanction to end up in prisons. We will see in the report on prisons, prisons in the Republic of Croatia how much overcrowding of Croatian prisons and what conditions are in prisons to close that prison measures really do not achieve those effects of criminal penalties because unfortunately our country, given the conditions, given the financial situation, is therefore not in that part of the judiciary ready to meet all the conditions. Because the law on probation is one of the laws that should certainly be supported and which will, above all, reduce the overcrowding of prisons, make the judiciary more effective in this approach system of the EU and certainly help the perpetrators who have committed these minor crimes to return to society as under the quotes of a normal person. We support this report for 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30232	Thank you. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30233	Report on the work of the Directorate for Testing and Support for Victims and Witnesses for 2011. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the work of the Directorate for Testing and Support for Victims and Witnesses for 2011 Please enter your message. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 118 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30234	We are moving on to - the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure the conditions for balanced regional development based on the use of EU funds The Interpol was submitted by 17 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report in accordance with Article 192. Rules of Procedure. On behalf of my colleague, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30235	Thank you very much. According to its basic economic, geographical, demographic and many other features, the Republic is a small country in world terms. However, according to the degree of regional differences, Croatia is located at a high 4th place compared to 24 member states which do not include Malta, Luxembourg and Cyprus due to a small area. It can therefore be concluded that the regional differences in Croatia are indeed a remarkable social economic problem not only from a domestic point of view but from a European perspective. In comparison with achieving independence, Croatia faced a number of disadvantages which, due to war destruction during the Homeland War, because of the incomprehensible and unacceptable policy of neglect by the central state authorities, Slavonia and Baranja were particularly hard to suffer. Slavonia and Baranja since the once richest and most developed region of the Republic of Croatia has become its poorest, most neglected and underdeveloped region. Today there is no one in Croatia who does not accept the accuracy of this finding, and so that anyone could challenge it when the data speaks for themselves. In addition, here are some concrete indicators. A comparison of GDP reviews per Republic of Croatia compared to the EU average of 27 members. As a criterion, we take data according to the average GDP per capita for 27 EU countries is 23500 euros. According to Croatian counties, the situation is the following, far the largest GDP per capita in Croatia has a city of 25800 euros and 110% of the EU's average, respectively. Convincedly in the last places of this development scale are 4 Slavonsko-Baranja County of Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Požega-Slavonska and Virovitica-Podravska County of GDP from 34% of the EU average to 40% of the EU average, with the 5th Slavonia-Baranja County of Osijek-Baranja in the middle of a scale of development with 11800 euros and 50% of the EU's average. Overall, according to these indicators, the entire region of Slavonia and Baranja is probably the most underdeveloped in the Republic of Croatia with an average GDP of only 64% of the average GDP of the Republic of Croatia and 40% of the EU's GDP. In this respect, there are indicators that are either more defeated or slightly better for Slavonia and Baranja but all of them are common among Slavonia and Baranja is the most undeveloped region in the Republic of Croatia. Before today's division into two statistical regions of the Republic of Croatia was divided into three NUC2 regions, in northwestern Croatia to the Adriatic Croatia and to central and eastern Croatia, respectively. Northwest Croatia, which was made up of Varazdinska, Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorska, Koprivnica-križevnica, Zagreb County and the City of Zagreb with an estimated million inhabitants and GDP of 78.3 per capita GDP, would be artificially said to have been a good indicator for them. However, these indicators for northwestern Croatia do not show a real state of affairs. In fact, this so far statistical region was markedly raised by the city of Zagreb in all indicators. Without the city of Zagreb, the blood count of development and this region is significantly different and worse. If we take into account the information already mentioned on the average GDP of the counties that make up the region, then the northwestern region without the city of Zagreb is also a less developed region with an average GDP of 81.2% of the average of Croatia and only 50.2% of the EU GDP average. It is easy to conclude that with its GDP of 177% of Croatia's GDP average and 110% of the EU's GDP makes this northwestern Croatia region more artificially rich and more developed than it really is. According to some scientists, it could even be claimed that Croatia has developed into an economic monocentre economy with the dominant participation of Zagreb over the past decade. The city of Zagreb, worth 6.7 billion kuna, has 7.5 times the budget of all 5 Slavonia-Baranja counties together, and all Slavonia-Baranja counties together have a budget of only 13.3% of the Zagreb budget. These are all indicators that speak for themselves. I have already said that in preparation for this debate we have used both numerous and foreign sources. Among the numerous works and works that we have read and analyzed are a particularly interesting paper, which is a doctoral dissertation from the Faculty of Economics of the University of Split called "The Chimbens of Regional Development and Regional Inequality in the Republic of Croatia". The author is today's Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU Funds Dr. Jaksa Pugliz, whom I welcome because I forgot at first, and his mentor was today's Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Prof. Branko Greek. And I must admit that the data from your work, Mr. Deputy Minister, have strongly convinced us of the accuracy of our claims that this statistical division is in two statistical regions where the rich Zagreb is connected with poor Slavonia and Baranja at great damage to Slavonia and Baranja. Among the numerous findings that confirm in your work that the difference in development between the city of Zagreb and other less developed regions is particularly of concern to Slavonia and Baranja. I'm going to quote just one statement from your mentioned dissertation. "It is precisely the rapid growth of the city's GDP that is the main cause of the increase in regional differences. In other words, about 40% of the total regional GDP difference per capita is lost in the city of Zagreb", 74 pages of your doctoral dissertation. So what's the truth now? What you wrote while you were observing the Croatian reality outside of Zagreb from Split or what you are trying to impose on Croatian citizens as the truth when you speak from Zagreb. What has changed in the development of Zagreb and the underdevelopment of Slavonia and Baranja and other Croatian regions compared to the time you were not acting in power and at the time you were sitting in Banski dvori? Should this be added to the above mentioned general known fact that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Branko Grcic, is the main economic strategist of the SDP in the pre-election plan 21 explicitly stated that Croatia should be divided not into three but into five statistical regions and then in just a month in December when you entered power in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme instead of dividing into five statistical regions here we have now divided not into those three but into two statistical regions. After carrying out these important statistical indicators, which show huge differences in the level of development of certain Croatian regions, and since this is about the use of EU funds below, I think there is also a need to say something about the regional policy of the European Union. In short, the European Union's regional policy aims to reduce economic and social differences between regions and Member States of the European Union. In doing so, regional policy helps regions with low economic growth, high unemployment or lower GDP. The European concept of regionalisation therefore has a major economic basis. For a very long time, the Croatian public has been confronted with the concepts of European Union funds, and probably a good part of the citizens doesn't even know what they really mean. The most frequently mentioned structural funds and cohesion funds are. Structural funds and cohesion funds are the main instruments to finance and implement the so-called "European Union". Cohesion policy, and this cohesion policy is one of the many European Union policies. In terms of financial importance, the second most financially significant policy is right behind the common agricultural policy, which, in the current seven-year perspective of the European Commission, is 35.7% of the total budget of the European Union, i.e. 308 billion euros by 2013. The cohesion policy, which is also called the so-called so-called cohesion policy. through solidarity policy, the European Union provides funds for less developed regions, i.e. Member States of the European Union, and we can say that the main purpose of cohesion policy is to reduce the significant economic, social and territorial differences that exist between regions in the European Union, but also to strengthen the global competitiveness of the European economy. Just in these European Union funds, Slavonia and Baranja, but all other less developed regions in the Republic of Croatia have seen the opportunity of their accelerated and balanced development. When it comes to the use of European Union funds, I will reiterate that these funds are primarily intended for least developed regions, but are also available to those medium and most developed regions. The only difference is that these funds are available to them under different conditions. In this respect, for optimal implementation of cohesion policy, the European Union recognises three types of regions according to their development: less developed regions whose GDP per capita is below 75% of the European Union average, and their approved projects are co-financed in the amount of 75 documentation 85%. Then regions in a transition whose GDP per capita is 75 to 90% of the European Union average, and their projects are financed with a maximum of 60% of the EU funds. And thirdly, these are stronger developed regions with GDP above 90% of the European Union average, which will also be co-financed by the European Union funds, but up to a maximum of 50%. Viewed from the perspective of Croatian counties and regions according to this categorisation in the third group of more developed regions is only the City of Zagreb with 110% of the European Union average and will only have the right to 50% co-financing of funds. In the second group of regions in transition there are two Croatian counties, i.e. Istria with 79% average of the European Union and Primorje-Gorski with 76% average, while in the first group, they are less developed, so the most underdeveloped are all other Croatian counties, from Brodo-Posaviska with 34% of GDP, the average of the European Union to Koprivnica-Cryzevica with 58%. Therefore, funds from the European Union funds will also be for the weakest developed and for the strongest developed, so there will also be funds for Slavonia and Baranja, as well as for Zagreb, but the difference will be in how the funds will be allocated, i.e. how many individual projects within each of the regions divided according to their level of development will be maximumly co-financed by the European Union. E there will be a difference and should be if it really is to achieve undeveloped regions to achieve the current development or to reduce that difference to the least, and to use the European Union funds to achieve the basic objective of their existence, which is to reduce regional development differences. In particular, it should be pointed out here that the exact statements that have been made since these divisions were made in two statistical regions could be heard by individual representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, e.g. that such division is not made Zagreb or, for example, Zagreb Međimurje could not use money from the European Union funds as said by Minister Maras during a working visit to Čakovec several months ago. That's just not true. The most developed regions in which Zagreb belongs can also use funds from EU funds only under different conditions with a maximum co-financing of up to 50%. Therefore, none of us are against the fact that money from the European Union funds comes to developed Zagreb, but not under the same conditions under which it is intended for undeveloped Slavonia and Baranja and for all the other less developed regions in Croatia, and in these less developed regions, according to the above criteria of the European Union, there are as many as 18 out of 21 Croatian counties. If both developed Zagreb and undeveloped Slavonia and Baranja use the European Union funds under the same conditions, then the differences in the development of the European Union of Croatian regions will not only remain the same but will increase dramatically, as it is clear to every normal one that the less developed regions of the Republic of Croatia will not have an equal position compared to the developed Zagreb but also because the poor have no money for their mandatory part in co-financing of projects, even those 15 or 25% of which Zagreb, which has a 7.5-fold budget of all Slavonia-Baranja Countys together, will not be a problem. So far, it has been proposed to divide Croatia into five or at least four statistical regions, not only by the HDSSB, for the purpose of using the European Union funds, and for such division into five regions, this today's Government of the Republic of Croatia, but only while they were in opposition. But instead of carrying out this orientation and pre-election promises without prior announcements, without any debate during the summer holidays of 22 August 2012, a new statistical division of Croatia was launched in two regions, instead of those three we received continental Croatia and the Adriatic Croatia. The new statistical division has again sparked heated debates, as it has in three regions in 2007, but this time mainly the County of Slavonia and Baranja. And when the decision was made overnight, this decision caused a wave of justified protests, the Government of the Republic of Croatia began to defend itself with false claims that the new division into two regions was the result of the European Commission's request. And that in the lie, the short legs showed up very quickly on this example. Namely, not believing these arguments by the Croatian Government, the mayor of Osijek-Baranja County and the president of the HDSSB Dr. Vladimir Šišljagic sent a written inquiry to the European Commission on 26 September last year as to whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia's true claim that such division was created at the request of the European Commission. And it has not been too long before the European Commission's reply has shown that this government is ready to make its unreasonable decisions and not even tell the truth in an attempt to justify them. In fact, on October 19, 2012 the Commissioner of the European Commission's Office, Mr Han, received a reply to the request. Among other things, the answer states: By July 2012, regional statistics in Croatia were collected and transferred to EUROSTAT related to 3 NUC2 statistical regions. I'm undermining. The Commission has not proposed any changes in this respect. It's a finished quote. The city of Zagreb is indisputable from all other parts of the Republic of Croatia the most developed area, i.e. the region of Croatia. And as such understandable to anyone added to the statistical region, it corrupts the region, or artificially improves the statistical indicators of the level of development. And for this very reason, there have been many times so far been proposals for the city of Zagreb to divide into statistical regions, and for the purpose of using funds to be a separate region, and each time so far, the proposal has been rejected under the pretext that this is not in line with the European Commission's specifics and practice, allegedly because it lacks a little more than 7,000 inhabitants up to 800,000. A number of examples are in the Member States of the European Union where not only small but significant deviations from the prescribed minimum and maximum population for the NUC2 region are present. And with more than the prescribed maximum population, but also with less than the minimum prescribed number. We have in Italy a NUC2 region with 9 million inhabitants, and in France even with 11 million inhabitants. While as many as 14 regions have fewer than 300,000 inhabitants, they are NUC2 regions. From Finland's Aland, which has a NUC2 region of only 27600 inhabitants, through Italy's Valdaosto with 127 and a half thousand inhabitants to Austria's Burgenland with 285,000 inhabitants. Therefore, with its 792875 inhabitants, Zagreb too could have been not only willing but also persistent and persistent in negotiations with the European Commission, not just obedient climates, but a separate statistical region. At the end I will also look back at the government's report on this interpretation of the Croatian Parliament's representatives that we received on the benches. As a concrete advantage and benefits from new divisions in two statistical regions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia states, among other things, that "all Croatian areas under equal and most favourable conditions will be able to use EU funds". This would not be disputed if all the regions of the Republic of Croatia had the same or at least approximate starting position as regards the level of development achieved until then. And Zagreb with its 110% GDP average in the European Union is already at the very beginning almost 3 times more developed than the whole of Slavonia and Baranja, which has about 40% of the EU's GDP average. Using EU funds under equal conditions for all, it loses the basic meaning and purpose of these funds, which is to reduce differences in the regional development of EU member states. However, these differences will not be reduced, but will increase very quickly. It will be much easier to provide for the necessary number of shares in co-financing of every 15 to 25% project because of the increased fiscal capacity of rich Zagreb than other poorer, undeveloped Croatian regions will, above all, be able to do so by Slavonia and Baranja. Because I remind you that the budget of the city of Zagreb is seven and a half times higher than the budget of all five Slavonian-Baranja counties combined. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia states that this division will allow both NUC2 regions, therefore all Croatian regions, regardless of their current degree of underdevelopment, to retain the region's status in order. the convergence objective of at least the next two financial perspectives or the next 14 years. In other words, both rich and poor parts of Croatia will use funds intended for the poor, and not for the next 14 years, thus preventing the poor regions of Croatia from using EU funds intended for the underdeveloped and not for the developed, not for the next 14 years, but for 40 years. Well, we are not entering the EU to pay only membership fees, but that when we were unable to do so ourselves, we have been able to ensure a balanced and balanced development of the whole of Croatia rather than just a small part of the country, first of all Zagreb, Istria and Kvarner. And we are not going in to spend the resources available as soon as possible in a way that makes the entire Croatia reach 75% of the GDP average artificially and that in reality Zagreb goes from the current 110 to 140% or more, and that in Slavonia and Baranja, from the current 40, we reach a maximum of 50 or 60% of the EU GDP average. As a reason for this division, it also states that it wants to increase, I quote the potential for funding the development of 5 relatively less-developed counties of the previous region of northwestern Croatia, which were, I quote, in a subordinate position due to the high level of development of Zagreb that was with them in the same region. It's a finished quote. And against this reason, we have nothing. But we do very much oppose the desire to help the counties of northwestern Croatia break out and damage the interests of the Slavonian-Baranja County. Because now the subordinated position of the counties of northwestern Croatia has been reduced, but due to the artificial merger of the richest Zagreb with the poorest Slavonia and Baranja of its 5 counties has been brought into a much more uneven position compared to earlier, especially in terms of needs. The justification is that the inclusion of rich Zagreb in the same statistical region together with poorer counties of northwestern Croatia, and especially with the poorest Slavonian-Baranja counties increases the overall absorption capacity of Croatia mathematically. But this way of thinking shows that this Government of the Republic of Croatia does not care about the fundamental function of these EU funds, which is that they are primarily intended to reduce regional development differences. This is the primary objective of using EU funds, and the overall absorption capacity of using funds from these funds is an important objective, but not in front of this one. Reduce differences in the development of Croatian regions. And that it was the true will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the City of Zagreb, as a separate region, could also use the funds of the European Union funds only a region that is above 90% of the EU GDP average. For each project, we would have the right to co-financing of 50, not 86%, as our people would say from the boiler from which to feed the hungry and the poor do not come to feed the full and the rich. It's like in a mere kitchen with equal rights coming those in torn shoes and those in Mercedes. That's not fair or fair, is it? Such a division where they are combined developed and undeveloped to eat from the same boiler of play and the basic purpose of EU funds, but also the bold fraud of all undeveloped, impoverished and neglected Croatian regions and its citizens, especially Slavonia and Baranja. As regards the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the alternative options of the statistical regionalisation of Croatia at NUTS 2 level with division to 4 or 5 regions are not feasible because in the negotiations of the Croatian side I quote: "It is clearly indicated that such an option would not be acceptable". It would not be acceptable since the City of Zagreb has less than 800,000 inhabitants, this is not convincing. On the contrary, it is evidence that Croatian negotiators also represented the Croatian national interests on this issue by kicking and nodding and not fighting loudly for them. We are convinced that Croatian negotiators have firmly defended our interest The European Commission would not unconditionally reject our proposals on the number and appearance of our statistical regions. In that sense, I will set an example for Slovakia. It entered the EU after the adoption of that Regulation. 1059/2003 on the establishment of a common classification of spatial statistical units often called upon by those explaining why Zagreb could not be a separate region. Slovakia, which entered after the adoption of the regulation, has 4 NUTS 2 regions, and one of them is missing significantly more inhabitants than 800,000 than Zagreb. It is a NUTS 2 region of Bratislava – a region with 609 thousand inhabitants. It is true that European authorities have rejected the 2003 proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to divide into five regions. But it was not because of the City of Zagreb as a separate region because it was not separate in the proposal, but as part of the region so-called. Central Croatia with 4 more counties. But the truth is that in February 2005, the State Statistics Institute of the Republic of Croatia developed a new proposal with 4 regions in which the City of Zagreb together with Zagreb County made the so-called. Zagreb region. Besides this region were central Croatia, Croatia and eastern Croatia, respectively, Slavonia and Baranja. This proposal of 2005 was adopted by the European authorities and incorporated into the nomenclature of territorial units for EUROSTAT statistics. Later, however, the government, not the European Commission, opposed this but by the EU's accepted proposal and sent a proposal to the EU bodies in 2006 to split into two regions, which was then rejected by the EU Regional Policy General Administration in 2006. A year later in 2007 it was finally accepted by the old division into 3 statistical regions. We remember then both the reaction and the words and Ms. Minister Vesna Pusic and former First Vice President Radiir Cacic who then threatened even with the referendum. He said it was a long-term strategic sacrifice of northern Croatia but also damage to all of Croatia. It is a 100% political decision, it has nothing to do with the profession, pointed out by Mr. Radimir Cacic. And today's foreign minister said the following, I quote: "Although we negotiated three statistical regions, it was agreed that they could change even after the census this year, 2011. The only condition is that there can't be more than five. The division into five regions is more logical and closer to common sense because it allows as many regions as possible to withdraw money," the quote concluded. That's what Minister Pusic said. This question didn't run out of echoes, so I already said that Plan 21 said it was going to be five regions, and here we ended up at these two. Highlighting the Government that keeping the City of Zagreb within the category of regions with the most favourable conditions of use of funds has special meaning in terms of raising the overall absorption capacity for EU funds because I quote: "The absorption power and potential of the City of Zagreb is particularly important in areas such as scientific and technological development where projects in the City of Zagreb are very difficult to replace with relevant projects in other areas of the Republic of Croatia", finished quote. This is highly underestimating to everyone else at least the university centres in the Republic of Croatia. Do you think all of Croatia's mind is concentrated in Zagreb and that all of us living in other areas of Croatia are dumb and stupid and we don't know how to deal with scientific and research activities and we don't need technological development? And this is proof that our fear that most of the funds will end up in Zagreb with this split into two regions, and we in other areas will remain crumbs that will increase the difference of development. The attempt to justify this inexcusable decision to divide into two regions which the Government of the Republic of Croatia states in its reply that, I quote, "It does not mean that at some other time there will be no need to change it", at the very least it is hypocritical because the government itself recalls the known fact that, according to EU regulations, changes in NUTS classification are possible to propose every three years but also these changes during the current financial perspectives only at the beginning of the next budgetary period. That only means 2020 at the earliest. Finally, the government of the Republic of Croatia has provided the following explanations regarding our concrete complaints from the interpretation. On the objection to public exclusion, the government's explanation is that it is not enough time for the debate because the European Commission has requested that the agreement between the Croatian side and the EU be reached at the latest by the end of July 2012. So this government entered the Bansko Dvora at 12 months 2011, it had 8 months to spend that it wanted a very quality debate on Croatia's new division into statistical regions. I've already told you about the answer we received in Dr. A haircut, and here's another objection. The criteria for the allocation of resources to regions explain to the Government that the task and authority of the Government of Croatia is to decide how much of the resources available will focus on individual areas within the country and is a reason for our concern and more than justifiable concern. Namely, given what relationship to Slavonia and Baranja in these 14 months of their table in the Banski dvor, this SDP government has then, in Slavonia and Baranja, there is really no other choice but to tell us now the hook of this Government corn. Reduced resources in the state budget for agriculture, abolished incentives for farmers, skin-pulling farmers in legalising agricultural production facilities, a new Agricultural Land Act that not only favors large but knowingly destroys small, excise duties, imposes, taxes need to justify our fears? You are like the previous HDZ government of Slavonia and Baranja only remember from election to election. And when the funds are allocated, then you act like a model full of hungry people don't believe. We also believe that we will get something, but knowing how much our financial opportunities for our own participation in these projects are compared to Zagreb and it is clear that we will have small investments, and large ones are reserved for those who have money. The main task of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to ensure the maximum absorption of the available funds of the European Union funds is to provide funds for undeveloped regions that have projects but do not have those 15 to 25% of the necessary own funds to participate in the realisation of them. This increases the absorption capacity of the resources available, not by putting them in the same basket and those who have those and those who can only dream of them. And here I want something more special to say, we have projects for Slavonia and Baranja, but we don't have money for our own participation. Only in the area of Osijek-Baranja County at this time at various stages of project preparation is worth 2.8 billion euros. In order to ensure a minimum 15% of our own resources, we should have 420m euros, i.e. 3.15 billion kuna, for the realisation of these projects. Understandably, we do not expect all of this to be realised in one year, if we were to divide it into 7 years how long the multiannual financial framework takes then it would take 450 million kunas a year just for this 15% for Osijek-Baranja County. And it's clear to the little kid that we can only dream about these money without the help of the state. And the government boasts that for 2013 it has provided 120 million kuna to help local and county units and other project holders throughout Croatia. 120 million kuna for all municipalities, cities, counties and other carriers for all Croatia, and only to provide 15% of the project funds in Osijek-Baranja County should 450 million kuna annually. Finally, it is more than clear that this division of the Republic of Croatia into two statistical regions is extremely unfair towards Slavonia and Baranja as its most underdeveloped and poorest region. Such a division will make richer and poorer. This is why we propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the following conclusion: to be in charge of the State Statistics Institute to determine a new national classification of spatial units for statistics, which will determine the new statistical division of statistical regions of the second level in a way to form or at NUC level 2.5 regions, namely Slavonia and Baranja, Dalmatia, City of Zagreb, southwest Croatia, northwestern Croatia. They would all count in residents of 806,000, 792 thousand as much as the City of Zagreb over 806,000 Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30236	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30237	Here, I'm finishing up to 976 thousand northwestern Croatia without the City of Zagreb. Alternatively, it is possible to divide into 4 regions in which it would remain the same, only the City of Zagreb would, if it did not pass itself, be added to Zagreb County and then they would do central Croatia as it was in that variant that was already acceptable. And finally, I hope that today's debate by the government's representatives will be based not only on emotions but also on arguments. We believe that it is not too late, Croatia can only enter the European Union on July 1st, that if it is good will it is not too late to change anything Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30238	Thank you, buddy, thank you. We have two reported replicas. Drazenko Pandek came in first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30239	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow, all these statistical indicators that you have presented are true, but in statistics it has long been said that it is what, one eats the desires, the other eats the meat, all at the end we eat the charm, and in, of course, the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb of course has a large GDP which also makes up the profits of all the companies that have headquarters in the City of Zagreb, and this profit is also made in the territory of the whole of Croatia. A few years ago, Sanader's government took 700, 800 million kunas from the profit-making taxes, with this explanation that this is, therefore, being deployed throughout Croatia and thereby significantly reducing the city budget, far below these levels that you are referring to. You are also making a false impression in the Croatian public that the City of Zagreb is only Tuškanac, a villa in Pantovčak. The city of Zagreb is, for example, one village of the lower mountain, which has no water lines, which last summer brought tanks and people showered one hour from 6 to 7. The whole world has no sewers. I am, my wife is a Vukovar, I've been there in Slavonia many times, when I compare the lives of people in one of the mains of the lower, say, near Sesveto and in Bor's settlement i.e. Borovo, this life is not at a drastically higher level of these inhabitants upstairs. They also don't have a sewer, until a few months ago they didn't have a water line, the plumbing was built a few months ago. So don't create artificial divisions because it doesn't stand. This division will increase the absorption potential of all our regions. I read the data that Romania used barely a few percent of what was allocated to it by means of funds. Bulgaria, I think, is 16%. So we do not compete with each other, there is an equal need for water, an equal need for these basics throughout Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30240	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30241	Let's not create artificial divisions where they shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30242	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30243	Dear colleague, the poor girl is poor, so wherever she lives, she lives in Zagreb, she also has poor women in Zagreb. But I'm talking about statistical indicators, that's what you were going to say, statistics are just a very often accurate set of incorrect data, so to speak. However, these are objective indicators, the only objective indicators of the level of development of Croatian regions. And according to these objective indicators, you will not now convince us to live better in Slavonia and Baranja than, generally in the City of Zagreb, not taking individuals. However, listen well, 4 times 110% of the average, even better than the EU average. And we're at 40% average. The purpose of the EU funds is to reduce the differences in the development of certain regions within the EU member states. It is true that it is a sin to leave the money untapped, not to increase that absorption capacity, but the government's task is not to increase that absorption capacity in such a way that those who will have to participate, and thus enable it to spend the same funds, this cheap means only by 15%, to say here we have used a lot of resources and that the vast majority of these funds withdraw only the city of Zagreb and that those who do not have enough of these funds cannot even apply for them. You said here's a letter in the government's reply 120 million kuna for this year was provided to help prepare the projects. And I've set an example just for our county. In one year to make it happen through seven years of total projects as far as we now have in preparation, it would take 450 million kuna for just one county. Well, it's crumbs, it's like putting out a fire, you're going to put out a fire on a Velebit syringe for injection. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30244	Next replica, Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm signing my colleague Buric at the end of the day, and I've signed all of what you've said with a few of these remarks, among other things, when it comes to these conclusions, I'm afraid that accepting these conclusions will come to my end, where I come from, which was once one of the strongest in the former state of industry that will practically mean the same thing to us because now it's not the city of Zagreb, now it's the Primorje-Gorski County with which we don't have any touch points and we're back in the same situation. The town of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County, i.e. specifically the county according to the latest figures of the HZZ Employment Office, has the highest unemployment rate in the country if it is the correct data they carried out on the economic one. That's why I have to react, we support and support all of this, but I'm just saying in this situation, Sisak-Moslavina County, the town of Sisak and all of these places that are down are practically back in the same situation. And what made me actually come clean to you and to give you the opportunity to complete all these you said after asking the European Commission's position we heard that they were not looking in any way for a reduction in the number of regions in two regions but that and then you used a term that confused me. Obey head nod. It wasn't an obedient nod. This was even a courtship in that part you're not looking for. We've now turned out to be more Catholic than the Pope. We're doing ourselves harm. Now we can talk about whether it's courtship or not, but I think you wanted to say something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30246	We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30247	Dear colleague Novak. So I pointed out several times in the debate. Developed Zagreb with such a high rate objectively is not what we invented it in whatever region to put it artificially will raise statistical indicators of the region's development. We agree that in that division in the three regions it was in the way of northwestern Croatia because without it and that northwestern Croatia was at 50% of GDP. But now we've done it artificially. Instead of limiting ourselves to single out the city of Zagreb, we went to add it to Slavonia and Baranja, and now we will lift it artificially. We rose overnight from 40% to 64%. The main point is that you have the right to use those funds until you get to 75% of that cheap asset. Until you reach 75% of the EU's GDP average. Now imagine how long we'd have the right, so that's the point of taking money from the EU not only to pay but to give it to us. How long could we use to come from 40-75% or northwestern Croatia of 50-75%. So sooner we come from 64% to 75% and we and northwestern Croatia thanks to who? The money will not end with us, but most of it will end in the city of Zagreb because it will have money to finance and we will, we will have only for less investment. And when you said "obeying," "noding," "this courtship" is fine. I meant not only this, but what we had before. Our Croatian negotiators did not represent Croatia's national interests sufficiently in the EU accession process. Others used to fight for it, and as soon as they said you couldn't miss 7 grand 125 people, we said good. Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30248	Time. Thank you. With us, Prime Minister Dr Jaksa Puljiz is Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30249	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs. It's nice to hear someone quote you anywhere, especially in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian government has prepared a response. So the report you got about the impelation. I'll just briefly remind you of the conclusion of that report. The government therefore proposes to reject the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure conditions for balanced regional development based on the use of EU funds. In his presentation, counterpart Buric listed a number of things from the report itself. I was going to go through the report in detail, but I'm actually going to look back on a few things. First of all, I'd be estimating it this way. I would like to see a project from Slavonia and Baranja which, due to this division, will not be financed because of this new division. One single project. But I will list you dozens of projects from northwestern Croatia from the area of municipal infrastructure transport infrastructure, education infrastructure and all possible infrastructure companies that would not have been financed but in 2014 if we had left an old division. So let's not mustache the pears and apples. Slavonia and Baranja will in no way be cut off by this division. Why? The issue of statistical division in the two regions is primarily governed by the global financial envelope for the Republic of Croatia and then regulates the rules of use of EU funds at the level of statistical regions if there are differences in the categorisation of the region as mentioned by counterpart Buric. So we would have a big problem if we had one or two or three statistical regions that were categorized as the weakest developed areas and another one or two regions as much as they were categorized as medium developed or more developed areas. That would be a big problem. But in a situation where you have the whole of Croatia categorized as the weakest level of the area, that you have the same conditions then you have equal or you have the opportunity to define your own rules, your own national rules where you will direct the funds. What does that mean in the end? This means that the Republic of Croatia itself will determine within the framework of an envelope at the level of the Republic of Croatia as much as it wants to direct in some parts of Croatia. And if it is concluded that Slavonia and Baranja need to be channeled twice as much means perceiving than any other territory in Croatia's Croatian government can do, there are no restrictions. But if we had left the old ones, if we had left northwestern Croatia as a special area then we would have faced restrictions from the regulation that regulates the issue of using EU funds and then we would have rules such as that at least 50% of all resources must go to priorities concerning research and development, education, labour, etc. for which we know in advance that a large part of northwestern Croatia could not offer enough projects at all. In order to make a number of projects of vital interest in the sphere of municipal infrastructure, social infrastructure, etc. They couldn't be financed. There are simply different rules of the game, and we have achieved in this way that we have the opportunity to regulate ourselves within our national regional development policy as we wish to direct these funds. And there is no problem for us to define a special 200m-euro priority for Slavonia, special only for Slavonia. We will say we will not write Slavonia we will write that this is a weaker level of the area because the less developed areas you will agree there are elsewhere and not only in the area of Slavonia. So a special envelope under operational programmes for the least developed areas. It is the autonomous right of each Member State. And that's what we wanted to achieve. What you're talking about is a number of projects in the Slavonia area that are unfortunately project ideas. By the time it reaches the mature stage of the project, it'll be a long time. So we discuss project preparation every day and try to speed up this preparation as much as possible. The issue of providing national funding for project preparation and co-financing, i.e. paying for national participation, is a very different issue. And that's the problem we have on the table, and that's not about the statistical division except in the part where there's an old division left over because what would have been the consequence of the rest of the old division? One consequence would be that for Croatia's northwestern area they would have to find 300m euros in additional co-financing funds because they would not have the possibility to use EU funds at an 85% co-financing rate but would have a 60% rate. In some programs, even less. This is how we did it. But of course the Croatian government will take care of helping the least developed areas. This program you're talking about, my colleague Buric, is just one of the programs. 120 million kuna is just one of the programmes through which the Ministry of Regional Development, which refers only to the Ministry of Regional Development, co-finances the preparation of project documentation in the Croatian regions, taking particular care of the least developed areas. We have a special sub-programme called "Financing project technical documentation for less developed areas" in which only local self-government units can be applied with a development index below 75%. And these are ways of leading regional development policy, so we provide special support for less developed areas in project preparation and now we are developing a model together with the Ministry of Finance that will ensure and address the issue of national co-financing where we will meet again less developed areas. So there is no concern that with this solution anyone in Croatia will remain suspended. God forbid we're in a situation where some project from Slavonia and Baranja can't go through because of this division, it would be great if we came to this level of absorption, but the essence of the problem with the use of EU funds is in the preparation of projects and only here. And the mechanisms that will ensure even regional development are in our hands and there is no fear. I hope that we will get a lot of constructive proposals when I propose these mechanisms so that you show us that our proposals are not high enough, they don't provide enough advantages for less developed areas, you might offer some ideas on this issue and I hope that we will have a really good dialogue then. But there's no dilemma in this matter. Croatia did a fantastic thing and at a very difficult time. Let me just tell you this. We started dialogue with the European Commission in the 3rd month trying to find a way of procedurally implementing that change, and it was not easy, it is a dialogue that lasts. We have only come to the situation at the end of the 6 months that we have become aware of the possibilities that we can make a change in the statistical regions and we have made it because we are sure that it is better because this is the only division that guarantees all areas of the Republic of Croatia the most favourable use of EU funds. And our thing is that we within Croatia will be determined according to certain areas to which we will give an advantage to whom we will not. And let's not talk about neglecting certain areas when it comes to EU funds. You also know about major projects in Slavonia such as Water supply or purifier for Slavonski Brod, which is 100% from the EU fund and from the national budget 100%. You know about the model of co-financing of a major project in Osijek, so the water supply of the city of Osijek with the installation of a purifier of 72m euros according to the model of the share of the city of Osijek is 7% I think what we're talking about. To a number of other projects, what we are doing now with the Ministry of Finance is looking for a model that will systematically solve it, not only in the area of water but also in the area of the environment, in the area of transport and in all other areas where EU funds can be obtained and of course we will make sure that there are differences in fiscal capacity. You mentioned the City of Zagreb. We will take care of how much money goes to the City of Zagreb. If the City of Zagreb was singled out as a special area, it could account for 14m euros per year according to our stimulation. Okay, maybe that's fair. First, when we talk about fiscal capacities, we compare the City of Zagreb with cities, so it is not fair to compare the fiscal capacity of the City of Zagreb with the counties. It's not the same. If we compare, we need to compare cities and cities. At the same time, the City of Zagreb has status and city and county and then compare the budget of all counties, the budget of cities, and then we will draw some relevant conclusions, but the truth is that the City of Zagreb has exceptional fiscal capacity although it is not the largest per capital in Croatia, there are units that have greater capacity per capital. There are projects that are undoubtedly of national importance. I would like us all to agree that these are not Zagreb projects, these are not the City of Zagreb projects, these are national important projects. If we are talking about the Borongaj campus project, perhaps I am wrong, perhaps we are wrong in the government but we do not view them as a Zagreb project, they are for us national strategic projects that will bring good not to the City of Zagreb but rather to Croatia as a whole. Thanks to this solution, such projects will be able to be financed, but this in no way endangers the Technology project in Osijek, in any way. There is enough funding for Technology in Osijek and for the tech park in Čakovec and all other projects. Here's the time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30250	Thank you, Minister. I gave you my colleague Buric 60 seconds too. Namely, we have replicas. We'll do the replicas first, then we'll give it to the board representative, and then you'll propose. That's the order. Okay? First replica Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30251	Dear Vice President, Prime Minister, I am interested in you being the same Jakša Puljiz who defended Croatia in such a bitter way as to divide it into three statistical regions. Is that the same man? If I'm surprised by this defense, especially since I know what the arguments were in defense of that former statistical division. I will explain one other thing to you, how this works in the financing of European funds and helping Slavonia. You mentioned two projects, Brod, Osijek, I'll tell you that there is also Djakovo with 37m euros, also sewerage and purifier that was second on the ranking list after Karlovac, and then during the time that political resemblance went down until the 8th month and the entire system was centralized, the whole system. On the other hand, when all of them are so full of Slavonia and Baranja's mouth, these 23 years or 22 years, which makes Slavonia and Baranja the most backward Croatian region, which is why purchasing power in Istria or Zagreb is somewhere between 16 and 17 thousand euros, and in Slavonia and Baranja, the purchasing power of 3 to 4 thousand euros per year. Which is why we have had the Regional Development Fund all these years when, thanks to the work of this fund, Slavonia and Baranja remained the most lagging region again. And this division is again taking money from Slavonia and Baranja, and again those who were poor will lag behind and remain poor compared to the most developed parts of Croatia, and that is the only truth. And we should hope that this government and the Ministry will be blessed in the whole process of Slavonia and Baranja and promise millions of euros, because I do not believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30252	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Tink Milas, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Pulitz, I think I've seen a few illogical things in your presentation, but I'm going to look back at one thing, the government or the Greek minister for months already boasting that this government has, therefore, raised the realisation of projects during this government, so taking funds from pre-accession funds, I don't know exactly now, at 60, 70%. You referred to Mr Buric's presentation and said that projects take time, time and time, and I understand that, and then I want to know how you managed to raise the project to such a high percentage in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30254	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30255	Dear Deputy Minister, here we are, unfortunately, waiting four months for this topic to come to the Croatian Parliament. I remember a statement by the government's representatives four months ago when we can tell this information about this division in the region leaked out into the public, so I'm asking you a question here, but we never got an answer why this job worked away from the public's eyes even though the practice in all democratic societies is to open up a certain kind of public debate. We only learned about this information from the media when I said, when the game of the case leaked to the public. Then you said how much I remember it was one binding European Union guideline, today when I listen to you at the pay phone I see that it was not the European Union's guideline and you explain to us that it was done for our own good. I must tell you this way that we are not afraid of the European Union, we are not afraid that we will not be followed by the European Union by our projects because the City of Zagreb is with us. We fear the decisions of the Croatian government and of you as deputy minister who every time you speak differently. We're used to that. But also, offered the experience of just watching tears pour out for Slavonia and Baranja from this speaker by the government's representatives, and we will be in a position to fight with Zagreb for this share that we have to pay 15% to 40% for projects from the same bowl, from the state budget. We have experience and we are burned with practice so far when the Croatian government shares something to end very little in Slavonia and Baranja. Here, that's why we're afraid. We got the fact that these two projects are not because you've shared fairly but they're the only two projects in this region that have been prepared. Zagreb has done nothing in preparation for the projects, and you gave them nothing this year. You gave two in Slavonia. And I believe there was little chance that we and it wouldn't go west to lose those projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30256	Thank you very much. Next replica Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30257	Thank you. First of all, I can really appreciate, first of all, that here by the ministry and the deputy can get rid of some dubiosis. First of all, to solve the local selfishness that is really more and more opening up here in a way that needs to be given to me, and I care about others. However, in that part, I can say that so far we have been hostages, our northern Croatia of Međimurje, Zagorje and have remained this work and activities, because we have been partially deprived of all the programmes and projects that have been carried out. I hear many projects that have been in all other areas of Croatia. Let's hear what projects take place in Varazdin, Međimurje and Croatia Zagorje. What kind of projects do they share? So far neither. Such levels as they were there can only say the same to myself that so far thanks to previous authorities as the mountain-mounted area has been financed... and benefits from 8 EU funds which I also used my resources to pay for my participation in the rest of the part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't get anything from the level, although I was a mountain-mounted area, four years nothing. On the other hand, we have to say that we break down one of the delusions that you pointed out here. It's a mistake because that's what someone needs to give us, that the resources are the ones that will enable us to develop evenly. No, I can give you any means and money as much as you want, but if you're not able to use it and have your goals, it's giving you everything. So what I'm really referring to is what you said is a challenge let someone have projects for which you're not as a ministry capable of providing funds. Because there aren't any in the EU fund that you'll give. Here, I accept that. We have a lot of projects, a lot of programs not just in our region. You're very familiar with her. You're well acquainted with her. You're well acquainted with her. That's what we all need to do together to take advantage of those assets. No one's been able to use all those funds for as many of them as there are. It means no one will ever be denied them. Let that be a challenge to all of us. I accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30258	Thank you, too. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, it's very interesting to listen to the arguments written from the same factory. I remember when Croatia was to be divided into statistical regions then came the most optimal division into 5 statistical regions. It was then served with a series of data sub-strategics to the government that I was in, and then finally a compromise solution with 3 regions was found. And now look, we at the moment when we need to prepare because administratively we are not capable of telling the truth. The government had its co-ordination for EU funds headed by me as finance minister and counterpart Pankretic from regional development, with which the European Commission was extremely pleased that it worked, and the task of this coordination was exclusively raised by the administrative capacity of the Republic of Croatia. It was the Ministry of Finance's task. The Ministry of Regional Development's task was to encourage local self-government units to run as many projects as possible so that what happened to Bulgaria and Romania did not happen when only 10% of the projects were withdrawn. We have some bad experience using pre-accession funds. This may be the city of Karlovac's most obvious example, where we simply in Croatia, and we all have to admit that we should not run away from it when we've combined all our minds we've barely managed to put people together to manage these projects. And now watch. For months now, the government has suddenly had its theory, colleagues from the HDZ and HDZ, and others from this Slavonic part, the logical thing to be afraid of being denied, rather than the government, regardless of this debate, making what is needed, and that is that all institutions in the Republic of Croatia from the university, the institute all rises to their feet to do programs and that we can withdraw more funds. Because colleagues and colleagues, when you look at the means and techniques of withdrawing funds, when you look at what's happening to some other countries that are now taking away those funds, then you'll see where we're going wrong. I'm just saying, from the same factory you came up with the story that five regions are the most optimistic for Croatia, then by someone else's need for my government that I was then told that they were three regions, so that at the end of the day it would turn out to be two. But in the end, allow me just one more sentence. My colleagues and colleagues, the only truth for us in Croatia and for all regions that we do not have administrative capacity and the question is whether we have good programmes. And that's the biggest problem, and I think we should fight about it. It is also necessary to fight in a way that Croatia becomes equally regionally developed. Thank you very much for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30260	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Committee on Local Self-Government, colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here at the request of certain MPs I will shorten this reading of the report from the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, which discussed at its 11th session held on 14 November 2011 the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the role of the Government to ensure conditions for equal regional development based on the use of EU funds submitted to the President of the Parliament by 17 representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Both after these words of the proposer and after the debate on the Committee on Local Self-Government and after the report and opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the interpretation in question, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government voted for this proposed interpretation, while 5 members of the Committee opposed. Therefore, in view of the majority of votes, the Committee on Local Self-Government decided to propose to the Assembly the following conclusion: to reject this impeachment on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia I do not have to speak which four members voted for impelation and which 5 against. The opposition to interpretation, power against.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30262	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer, it appeared... A fellow Buric promoter has an advantage. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A colleague of Mandic's. ... Does he have to start the debate? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's a correction, my colleague Buric. Here's a correction from a more experienced one. We're having a debate, and then you can do it on behalf of the proposer. First we're going to discuss clubs. The first is Ivica Mandic on behalf of the HNS club. According to the Rules of Procedure, so is fellow Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30263	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So I can tell you that I express my satisfaction that this topic has come to our Parliament and that we can discuss it. And if we make one positive conclusion that any new project will bring about this debate will succeed. At the beginning of my debate, I would say that the Republic of Croatia is paying 1 billion and 700 million in total this year. So that's what we're going to give anyway, and the question is how much of it we're going to pull. So I have greater concern that we are not able to withdraw these funds administratively or fiscally. The objective of these support coming to the EU that have a regional approach is certainly in the first place the issue is security, and in the second reduction of social differences between individual EU regions. I think with the measures proposed, with two statistical regions we give equal chances to all parts of the Republic of Croatia in withdrawing funds. Because the bad experiences of EU countries that have approached us before us are devastating, 10, 15 and one of the most successful countries in Poland that has pulled something under 75%. What I disagree with is that these funds are not guaranteed. If these funds were guaranteed for the purposes of easing the difference in quality of life, on the matter of GDP, then I would accept this justification and completely that this is true. Because I come from Slavonia, I come from a region that is one of the most underdeveloped by all indicators. Since I'm not convinced that no matter how many statistical regions we have, we have 20 to make these 20 regions right and correct. But by dividing into two statistical regions, we only give the possibility that all parts of the Republic of Croatia can pay a maximum of 15% of their funds. There is no moment where I am jealous to use this grace and citizens of the City of Zagreb, Zagreb County, the Primorje-Gorski County but I believe that those projects coming from the region from which I come and which are primarily quality that we will not have competitors from these regions that I mentioned may be more developed. I would not talk too much here about the old classification from 2007 where there were three regions that would allow this northwestern Croatia to withdraw all EU funds under favourable conditions from 85% to 2013. With this split into two statistical regions and this part of the Republic of Croatia, we allow them to withdraw funds under favourable conditions from the EU 85%. It is not clear to me that my colleagues who come from the same constituency from the same region of Slavonia and Baranja that at the moment they are hypersensitive to the EU because we here if the City of Zagreb and northwestern Croatia were in the same region that way, the Republic of Croatia would be obliged to co-finance these projects from 40 to 50%. So we protect the EU, we don't protect Croatia. We are essentially burdening Croatia significantly here. For these reasons, we at the HNS Club believe that this division into two statistical regions is good, especially as possible by Regulation (EC) No 1059/2003 which gives the Member State that every three years it can change statistical regions. So, at some point when we come to the close development of the City of Zagreb and some other part of it we can put but these differences must not be too great. This time we can then allow these other regions that remain undeveloped that this way of using European funds under favourable conditions can be longer than 2013 or maybe I don't know how far away. The basis for successful negotiations on a new classification is for a balanced development of the Croatian regions and for increased opportunities for the use of EU structural funds. Here I will say that the new classification of 1 January 2013 in the statistical region 1 is located northwestern Croatia, the City of Zagreb, Karlovac County, Sisak-Moslavina and 5 Slavonsko-Baranja County and there is around 3 million inhabitants while this Adriatic or continental region, while the Adriatic region numbers about 1,500 thousand inhabitants. It is mostly important to note that all these regions, both of them, can use EU funds under favourable conditions, means up to 85% of EU funds, and the rest are RS, local self-government and county units. If this divide into two statistical regions as one, first viewed as the Republic of Croatia as a whole, second level of spatial units, two spatial units for statistics and the third level of spatial units is 21 counties. So in this division, we can always talk about different parts and different degrees of development, where the Republic of Croatia, and especially the Ministry of Regional Development, needs its own measures, its technical assistance, its technical equipment, to assist all units of local self-government, both financially and professionally. Because as a representative of the local self-government unit here, I can responsibly say that the largest number of units of local self-government is not professionally and fiscally qualified to consume this whole thing. For these reasons, I urge Deputy Minister of Regional Development to assist both professionally and financially in realising, realising, withdrawing these funds from the EU according to units of local self-government, which are underdeveloped. Looking at these two statistical regions, continental Croatia is now at 63.4 EU average, while the Adriatic is 60.2. So we have two statistical regions that are more balanced and I think that in the time ahead there is a great responsibility for the Ministry of Regional Development, there is a great responsibility in the counties and that, with scientific institutions, development agencies and local self-government units, we need to make enough quality projects and enough resources to withdraw. It would certainly be good if that part of the withdrawal was at least over 70%. What you'd like to give for the comparison of what means. I would say that now all units of local self-government and county in the Republic of Croatia are using from the state budget somewhere between 10 billion and 11 billion. With these EU funds, we will be able to withdraw more than 15 billion each year. So all the budgets of the units of local self-government, the county, the City of Zagreb is much bigger than the capacity we have now. In my opinion, we at the HNS club think that statistical division is correct and that it enables the Republic of Croatia to use favourable EU funds, and it is our responsibility for all of us to have the number of projects, the number of withdrawals of funds at a high level that will allow for a better, better development of all parts, and especially equalisation with those developed parts of the Republic. Here we could, in this topic, certainly touch on the financial facilities that are units of local self-government and county, that there are injustices, but on this part of the club, the HNS fully supports this part and these efforts because we think we shouldn't be, behaving by what you get, your neighbor will get twice as much. That we want something to happen to someone to make this one twice as bad. I think this is about a good solution, and we need to give support to everyone to make this right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30264	Thank you, too. We have reported three replicas. The first one was Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30265	Thank you very much. Mr. Mandic, I'm surprised at you. You come from 5 constituency if you live in 4, so you live in Djakova, but you were elected in 5 constituency, so in the electoral unit consisting of Brod-Posavina County, whose gross social product is 34%. So, the lowest compared to the EU, so the lowest in the Republic of Croatia. The percentage is lower than the worst Romanian region that exists, which has 40%. So it's something amazing that one Ship-Posavia County, which used to be considered rich and noble, as well as the whole of Slavonia falls on such a low branch. And now you're coming from that region and you're saying it the way you say it. Then you promise us falsely, you give hope out of a grizzly mind that in three years you can change the NUCS region statistically. So what are you saying now? Because you have a grizzly spirit, and besides that, you are in vain at the moment when you know, and you are not going to say, shut up that change can be applied, I am talking about fiscal, so things are only with the new EU budget that's only been in force since 2020. Wait till the grass grows.", so we're going to wait for Slavonia by 2020 so she can withdraw funds to a greater extent than she is now. So you're talking about most of the local self-government units has no professional capacity, administrative to withdraw. Well, of course, that's what we're talking about, exactly that these absorption capacities of Zagreb are higher because of the financial situation of the City of Zagreb and this region, but also because of the administrative institutional potentials this city has and to say for the withdrawal of funds, for the absorption of funds. And that's how it's going to be, by equating to 64% of all clearly who's gonna make that snake stronger. And you know who the city of Zagreb is:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30266	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30267	I don't want you to change your attitude, but we're talking here based on facts. Is in the old division the possibility of the part that we come from that we could get the funds? 85% after the new division. Has anything changed? The same thing we can get by 85%, so we can get by the right means. Let's not be jealous if someone else can take it out. What I said in my debate to ask the regional ministry, from county aid to all units to try to create expert teams from development agencies, colleges to see what projects are related from level 3, 2 to 1 and that's by helping. And with this story about someone stealing from us or someone cheating on us, we're not gonna get through this well. That's not the kind of story Europe buys. I am here to say responsibly to the Croatian public that the conditions under which the Brod-Posavina County could achieve funding in the statistical division into three regions. Nothing has changed to worse for Brod-Posavina County or two. The same terms are 85%. We don't need to be jealous if someone else can withdraw funds just like us. And it is a matter for the central state and government to take care of the EU as well as for the even development of all parts of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30268	Thank you. Ivan Shuker replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to share my colleague Mandic with the support of HDSSB counterparts in Croatia in a number of statistical regions. I can lab this later, but I would like to stick to what is crucial at this point, and these are the administrative capacities of the Republic of Croatia for the use of European funds. And let's not talk about Poland using so much resources. You know why? Because in agriculture they had virtually no incentive and all their peasants all got and got a lot. And the other ones pulled most of the funding into the railway infrastructure. Is that so or isn't it? And when you take that in... Then it looks a lot to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you know why the Bulgarians and the Romanians pulled so little, because they were as smart as we are. We from pre-accession funds didn't pull out, we actually pulled out when you look at 95% was usability. Look, you'll see, because when you contract a 20m-euro project, you'll get a 50 or 60 per cent benefit. Look at the two, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth, the tenth, and you'll see what the usability was. Pre-accession funds are training for learning, for exploiting EU funds, and as long as we have smarted in the programmes and not using clear rules of play but improvising the European Commission has not approved these programmes. Each programme made according to the European Commission's guidance under their rules was approved. But now comes the hardest, and that is how those who implement this programme, how these funds are used both by the Carlian and the protective wastewaters in Karlovac, colleagues and colleagues, starting with the government, and further to the units of local self-government, should be seen as a copy of how problems arise and you've got big resources to solve the burning problem that the Karlovac couldn't use. And so we can argue about these 85%, but the statistical division into more regions is saying that we could start with bigger projects, withdrawing money for these regions by these projects, and it would be easier for us both administratively and programmingly. The government decided on this, in this way it took responsibility for itself because the units of local self-government of two people who have not made one programme in their lives cannot create a programme for the EU and this education by units of local self-government and this is our problem for colleagues and colleagues, and it writes everything in government documents. You've got it all in writing. And don't think that what they did before you didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30270	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30271	Comrade Shucker, thank you very much. In my debate, I touched the part that I said split and at five it's not ideal and it's not fair again. Split into 21 statistical regions within the county you have differences that you cannot compare at all. But this is so in the field, and I don't think anyone's damaged this one. What the European projects didn't do is you think it's a bunch of money, so we'll take it. This money needs a lot of work, a lot of quality projects, and to be a thing better control is much, much, much stronger, much, much stronger than we expect because some EU countries that have used these funds now have to pay back because of non-transparent spending. It is therefore a great responsibility for all of us and the Parliament and the Government and the regional local self-government to develop quality projects, run and withdraw the maximum amount. Because if this amount of EU funding is withdrawn, it will reflect significantly on both GDP and everything in the Republic of Croatia, because it is very likely that it will all be done by companies from the Republic of Croatia and that there will be one employment and everything else. But if we fight and politicize, I don't think we're gonna get anything with this because from a debate he's right, who's wrong, we're not gonna get anything. These are real projects, real projects that need to be marked every year by 10-15 billion new money for the Republic of Croatia. Those aren't small funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30272	Thank you. And the last replica, Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30273	Thank you very much. Here, I'd like to say a few words. So I'm not going to talk about the regions right now because here I'm really saying a lot of things, but I'm going to say that the injustice is one done, and I'm not going to talk about the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, but when we talk about the IP programme and the component of 5 c, then there's already a single injustice that's going to turn into an IPARD where Slavonia and Baranja are cut off and that the cities and municipalities are cut off. How is it possible that someone in the ministry says that up to 10,000 people, or below 10,000 people, cities and municipalities can participate in a programme where 85% of the grants are Eu and what cities they are. For example, my friends in Vrsar in those other cities where there are 2 thousand inhabitants have a budget of 27 million kuna, and my Pleternica has 11 thousand inhabitants of the original budget of 6 million. On the side that we're building for 50 million a year, I'm not going to talk about it now how and how. But it's an injustice to the rural part of the population. I cannot participate in this programme where I can in infrastructure and in any other form participate and cities that have 2,3 thousand inhabitants who have a budget and who will not use those funds because they don't have the need to have enough resources, we are cut off here. Here is Slavonia and Baranja cut off in the IPA component 5C which later turns into IPARD. And I am asking here and the deputy minister who is in the strategy of that group where it is a development and economy strategy in the Republic of Croatia that something is changed to protect exactly like these regions and cities and municipalities that have 10,5 or 11 thousand inhabitants of the small budget cannot be participated, and those who have 2,3 thousand inhabitants will not use it at all to talk about the inability of European funds they have no needs they have 27,30 million kuna... I pray that this is something I really say is not here now the agriculture ministry but the same regional development to account for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30274	Thank you, too. Ivica Mandic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30275	I'd tell my colleague Lucic that these were probably experiences so far. In my debate, I appealed to the Ministry of Regional Development to bring special attention to those parts of the Republic of Croatia that are the most underdeveloped. If this is politics and the EU, then it must be the Republic of Croatia's policy to pay particular attention to the weakest. These strong ones know how to help themselves. Those who are the weakest financially powerful need help to get on the right track, and that is where I fully agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30276	Thank you. And now on behalf of my colleague, Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30277	Thank you. Here's what I wanted to do at the end of my opening part, on behalf of the promoter, is talk with strength not only of emotion but of arguments, and yet I can see it's going in the right direction. However, arguments should be credible. While you're here, I'd like to point out something special to you. It is not about jealousy that any county, municipality, city of any region in Croatia uses funds that will be co-financed with 85%, no. It is about who in the Republic of Croatia is able to use these funds co-financed with 85% towards the current level of development and how long because if we all use an amount of 85%, then thanks to those who are now significantly more developed and who will be able to withdraw funds before they come to those 75% of EU GDP and fall out of a group of less developed regions and will not be able to use more than 85% of co-financing but will go to 60% of them at best. When you say you're not against it, you think it's just like this, you come from a party not only from Slavonia and Baranja but you come from a party whose leaders are also former Mr. Cacic and probably future Mrs. Pusic and I will remind you of their words from not so long ago that have never been denied even when there has been a change from three to two regions. Here is Mrs Pusic, although we have negotiated three statistical regions, it is agreed that they can change after the 2011 census. And the only condition is that there must be no more than 5 and I quote "dividing into 5 regions is more logical and closer to common sense because it allows as many regions as possible to withdraw money". Mrs. Pusic has not changed her mind. And I don't think it's very appropriate for you to say so boldly that it's good because you're going against the opinions of your future president. But you have a good right to your opinion. Not to say that the former first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia said that this is a long-term strategic sacrifice of one part of Croatia in this case of northern Croatia and harming all of Croatia. The city of Zagreb, no one is against the city of Zagreb getting money but it also bothers northwestern Croatia. Let it be a private region, it has the right to EU funds, it has. Mr. Pugliz knows that even in this multiannual financial framework that should be adopted today or these days will decide for the next 7 years, of those 336 billion euros that are scheduled, 68.8% is foreseen for less developed regions, only 31.2% are for those other two regions. Therefore, no one is saying that we are against the city of Zagreb getting the money, so let it get both Istria and Kvarner, the Primorje-Gorski County but under the conditions prescribed, so the European Union has not made that criterion meaningless. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said a project that will not be financed for Slavonia and Baranja. I'll give you one, you mentioned campus. How you plan to finance it, we have a project of the same campus, we have a university in Osijek, a project that is estimated at 126.8m euros. 15% of 126m euros is about 19m euros, that's 140m kuna, just for this one project. Now we come to you with this project, and you have secured in the state budget 120 million kuna for all of Croatia, for all projects that will come from all counties, from all municipalities and cities. And then you say give me one project, and I say you're going to finance here's only one project if it's not the most expensive one, we've got a lot more expensive ones. The Government’s task was to increase the absorption capacity to provide funding for developing regions rather than to increase absorption capacity in a way that allows these cheap assets, conditionally cheap, to be used by those with funds. I don't know what changed Mr. Pugliz in your thinking, I've quoted in these actually here for four years, then you've been in opposition or not, okay, now you're deputy minister. But look, you claimed then, and you never said that you changed your mind, here's a quote from your doctoral dissertation another one. On the basis of a change in relative and ranking position towards GDP per capita, it can be concluded that "winners" in the observed period are the Metropolitan region of the City of Zagreb and individual coastal counties, while the largest "losers" of the county with a strong industrial and agricultural base are located in the SZ and Eastern Croatia. That's what you quoted back then, still standing like a scientific paper. And you have stated something else, although a picture of the geographical deployment of winners and losers in terms of growth is somewhat more complex than according to the level of development, it can still be concluded that the eastern Croatian counties are in the worst position towards level and dynamic development. These are your words and words from your mentor who signed it, the Vice-President of the Greek Professor's Government. You say they won't be cut off by Slavonia and Baranja, you can imagine. We've been taught by the experience of how we've been treated by your government so far, and by those previous two governments we don't believe in false promises anymore, we've had enough of that "promising, insane joy." It's said here, I think you mentioned a colleague that local selfishness is at work. No, we're not against you getting the money at all. If the City of Zagreb were outside and this region where you and Slavonia and Baranja would be at 50.2% of GDP, up to 75% could use at least 30.40 years of that funding. This is not about local selfishness but about rationality to withdraw money from the European Union. We are not saving the European Union, but because we do not want to save it we want to benefit from going to the European Union, not just being on paper. After all, we're not for three regions, so that's what I'm saying all the time, we're even less for two of them as you've done for no purpose, it could have been one, 62.1 of GDP and 64.1. Which is the difference between the Adriatic and continental Croatia. You could have made one. But we are about to be four or five regions, the more regions it is better for the Republic of Croatia. If the justification is that the City of Zagreb cannot be left alone I said add Zagreb County, you will have a situation that you will have by the number of inhabitants here... four regions, and the most honest is on five. Slavonia and Baranja with five of their counties will have 806,000 inhabitants, Dalmatia so I am talking about Dalmatia four counties, not the Adriatic Croatia 857000 inhabitants, the City of Zagreb its 792000, and you have indirectly admitted that it can be because you said that it could use 14 million euros. You didn't say no, but you said you could use it, so you admitted he could, but you pushed him now to us poor people to eat from the same boiler. We are not against it to get Zagreb, it is also our capital, but the funds it deserves, at the price at which it is worth it. The city of Zagreb was the third region, the fourth would be JZ, Istria, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Karlovacka, Ličko-senjska and Sisak-Moslavačka with 850 and 5th SZ Croatia without the City of Zagreb with 976000 inhabitants because there would be also Bjelovarsko-Bilogor County and you would be at 50% and you could drag those funds by 85 years, this way you will drag you know how long, the longest until 2027. Longest if, before that, there is a change, if there is a change in this region.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30278	Time, fellow Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30279	'Cause I hope he comes anyway. Here I go. Excuse me. Then Zagreb will be still at 180, and we will be at 60.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30280	Two replicas to your exposure. Marijan Skuric first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30281	Here I would really like to do it again, perhaps to explain better what I said that SZ Croatia was the hostage of the current system that was defined. In fact, in the part where we really talk to one, if we include not only the cash flow but also the time period, that means that Croatia along with the City of Zagreb would be over the period of about 4 years of those 75% of development and then in that part we would really fall to the fact that we could get 50% of the participation, or half of it should be given to us, or not to us, but to the state. Just as we can say now, let Zagreb enter that space, let it have a larger index of development and let it pay 50%. Who's to blame? Well, it's not like that. It's an interest to all of us, especially at the state level, that we all pay, we get 80% of the money. I think it's common interest to all of us. Only if you go into a simple account, if we have three regions and in that part of each region gets the same amount of funds, the same amount of about 100 million euros if we get about 440 million euros from this year, to the very difference between whether you're going to pay 50%, 50% or 80% is very big. How much with these resources we could now, instead of getting them, if we had stayed, that we could invest in a fair redistribution elsewhere, and if nothing else can increase the global that I really agree with. We need funds so that we can cover our participation from one fund that should be provided by the ministry. ... That's right. [[You can't hear it.]] On the other hand, I also mention one part of the hostages that we've been all these pre-accession funds that were primarily IPA funds where we're cross-border cooperation where we could only use one fund. It is cross-border cooperation with Slovenia. While Slavonia could use a cross-border fund for Hungary, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And Slavonia was quite successful in how much we follow and how successful she was in it. But we were successful, too, and it was me, even though we only had one fund. So I'm talking about how we really need to agree this part of who we are and how to start to apply ourselves to prepare for these programs and projects. It's our salvation, and this local selfishness really shouldn't have here in any way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30282	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30283	Dear fellow maths. The year will be available from a billion to a billion and a half euros, it is said. Come on, it's about somewhere. But now look like this. I said the information. 68.8% of these funds in the new budget of the European Union are foreseen for less developed regions. That's about 700, come on 750, 800 million euros depends on what it's going to be. So is it the same whether these 750m euros will be used by those who are really in the category of less developed regions, or will take some of that money from those who should, 15% as planned for them, use more strongly from their fund. So the EU has made 3 categories of regions and this is not about local selfishness, but about respecting even the rules of the game that exist in the EU. And Mr. Deputy Minister, when I asked him here's one example I've only cited that will come from Slavonia and Baranja, this is just an example, a warning, we're sending a message. We do not want to argue, but we warn of possible problems that will come very soon. You will not have to finance any major project to help us, which we do not have the means to finance ourselves, and this project will make the city of Zagreb a power itself and without the help of the state. 140 million kunas he will be able to secure, we can't secure, in any way he'll do it. You understand? And what we have today, so we are not jealous of Zagreb, but the fact that Zagreb is three or four times more developed than we are is not our fault, but we have said. That is what Prime Minister Milanovic said when he swore that Slavonia was the most injured because of the Homeland War, but also because of the unfair policy of the central state government all these years, she said it would fix it. Unfortunately... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30284	Thank you. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So look, given how many of us are in the assembly and when we look at who is discussing this topic, and the topic perhaps most important to Croatia in the future clearly says that it is not important what is being discussed but who is proposing it regardless of what reasons the HDSB colleagues have proposed along with the others who have signed this agenda. This may be an exceptional opportunity to discuss a burning problem in the Republic of Croatia. Why the majority of regions that the Deputy Minister has brought here, given that we like to publish registers of projects that are running in the Republic of Croatia, would then see in principle why a higher number of regions are better and better quality. Because more statistical regions simply enable the financing of similar projects for certain areas. First of all, we're talking about municipal infrastructure. The city of Zagreb has its problems, and by the time the city of Zagreb reaches 75%, it can solve these problems. So these are the facts that need to be discussed with the arguments. Here to make sure that two or three are better, and we're not talking about concrete things. But I repeat the key problem at this moment, first of all, the government is creating administrative capacity. And you can smile all you want. We simply do not have administrative capacity at this time to create projects that will run for withdrawal from the EU tomorrow. I'll tell you the example of the city I come from. You have an area that doesn't have a sewer, and now someone's asking me if I could get it from the EU funds. And then someone told the mayor, so listen, you don't have enough people and you can't run for it, and no one will say that at the end of that area is a water protection area where the water supplying the entire eastern part of Zagreb County, part of the city of Zagreb with water, is now being done. Well, if it's not of interest to protect these groundwaters and thus withdraw funds from EU funds, then I don't know what the interest is. But look, someone who works on these EU funds should have told the team in the city that they have other criteria not only criteria for the number of connections. And that's the real problem that we need to talk about so we don't fight whether we need two or three or five.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30286	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30287	Dear colleague Shuker, of course we at the HDSB club are glad that you agree with our proposal. But here's the third time I've seen you point to a very important problem that I haven't talked about there, you don't get a word in that half hour. I could have talked for two hours. However, it is a problem with administrative capacity. So, the basic preconditions for the use of EU funds are three, right? This is the existence of strategic documents, the second is the existence of completed projects and the third is the existence of adequate administrative capacities. We here in Croatia have a problem on all three preconditions. I didn't say that, but I'll say it now. And this change from three to two regions has been adopted by the contrary to the current Strategy on regional development of the Republic of Croatia and the Regional Development Act. You're only changing it now. The first prerequisite is that you have a strategy, a strategic document and you've changed it to three that was consistent with that strategy in two. Now, as far as we can tell, you're preparing the law. The second prerequisite is the lack of projects. We have them, that's what I'm telling you, in Slavonia and Baranja. We also have administrative capacities, we have good thoughts best in Croatia Regional Development Agency. That's why we have projects that I've only told you about our county in various stages of preparation, it's not just idea projects. It's a lot of ideas, and we're gonna need someone's help because we don't have the money to finish them, but we have projects, and we know how to write. We won't have the money to finance them. And that Croatia will not withdraw enough funds will not be our fault. And we tell you to secure the money in the state budget that what we have ready projects to withdraw. And anyone who has in Croatia help them, those who need them and they are the first group A less developed regions. Less than 75% of GDP average... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30288	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP, Tomislav Zhagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30289	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So this presentation on behalf of the SDP club will begin part of the conclusion that the government sent in the report to the Croatian Parliament and related to the interpretation. The EU Structural Funds, which are made available to the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014-2020, have enough to achieve the development objectives of all regions so that discussions and claims that a new division into statistical regions means that certain areas of the Republic of Croatia will not reflect the real state of affairs. Following the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the SDP, it proposes to the Croatian Parliament that the conclusions of the impelation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia be completely rejected. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has defined the key objectives of regional development policy. The reduction of large social and economic differences in the development of Croatian regions, the increase of competitiveness of economic systems in all Croatian regions and the preparation of the Republic of Croatia for the effective use of EU pre-accession and structural funds. The government succeeded and significantly improved the absorption of pre-accession funds from only 37% of the contracted funds found at the beginning of last year, the government managed to reach almost 57% of the contracted funds in early October. The government has devoted particular importance to the accelerated preparation for the use of EU regional policy structural instruments, which offer new exceptional opportunities to finance development projects. For financing regional development and ensuring the convergence of Croatian regions towards the European average in the Republic of Croatia, the following amounts are available, from 1.07. to 31.12. of this year 450m euros, 2014 billion and 11 million, and thus progressive by 2020 billion and 358m euros. Total from 2014 to 2020 8 billion and 728 million euros. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken on a number of activities to prepare for the more effective adoption of these funds both in strengthening the administrative capacity to manage EU funds and in the preparation of mature projects. The main objective of EU cohesion policy is uniform development within the EU and strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. The growth rates of less developed regions should reach the growth rates of the less developed regions, but should not limit the growth of the leading regions, strengthening the global competitiveness of the European economy, achieving the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and the Europe 2020 Strategy, exiting from the deep crisis and reducing unemployment with smart, sustainable and including growth. It is these three objectives that are at the heart of the Europe 2020 Strategy. Smart growth, which involves the development of a knowledge-based and innovative economy, sustainable growth based on promotion of a more efficient, greener and more competitive economy and an inclusive growth aimed at fostering a high employment economy through promotion of economic, social and territorial cohesion. These three areas are the backbone of the European social and market economy vision for the 21st century and are a key element of application for structural funds. Investment areas and available amounts for the Republic of Croatia are known, including funds from which these areas will be financed. For example, in the second half of 2013, 240m euros will be available through the European Regional Development Fund for research and technological development, innovation and entrepreneurship, information society, initiatives for local development, health and social infrastructure, the environment, energy, tourism and culture and transport. In the same period, 60m euros will be made available by the Republic of Croatia from the European Social Fund for Investment in Education and Development of Human Resources for Employment, Entrepreneurship and Social Inclusion and 150m euros from the Cohesion Fund for Large Infrastructure Projects in the area of transport and environmental protection. Although large infrastructure projects are necessary and desirable in Croatia, such as investments in environmental protection, energy efficiency, irrigation of agricultural areas and others, it is now important to bear in mind that at least 25% of EU funds intended for less developed regions will need to invest in promoting employment, social care and education. This percentage will be significantly higher in developed regions, around 50%. In the less developed areas, the highest part of the financial cake will continue to go to 64% of the total. In this context, it is also necessary to consider the sharing of new statistical non-administrative regions in the Republic of Croatia with a view to withdrawing the maximum possible amount of funding for the purpose of financing the development of all Croatian areas, as well as the selection and preparation of relevant development projects, which will depend on it in the longer term. There is no doubt that the resources for well-prepared projects will be sufficient, but the key question is whether sufficient quality projects will be prepared. With long-term importance for the development of all Croatian areas. It is therefore necessary to focus on this segment on all key development stakeholders at all levels from national to local level. The aim is to achieve the withdrawal of the maximum amount and to ensure equal use of funds in favour of all counties, cities and municipalities of the Republic of Croatia. So far, experience in the Republic of Croatia, but also in stricter principles, as well as the EU's new cohesion policy approach, also require faster adaptation at local and regional level. the level of municipalities, cities and counties. In the circumstances of the dominant focus on smaller projects and the development of a fundamental entrepreneurship environment, such as road and municipal infrastructure, although extremely significant, the need to define and implement development projects in the area of promoting competitiveness based on modern technologies, knowledge and innovation, business environment and others, and other key ones to increase competitiveness and ensure the dynamic economic growth of the Croatian regions. There are a whole series of initiatives that can be taken from below, i.e. from local and regional levels. The initiatives below are more important as the EU will significantly increase the opportunities of local and regional self-government units to implement development projects. In order to ensure that the weakest developed areas in the Republic of Croatia make maximum use of new opportunities, certain measures will need to be initiated mainly in the less developed cities and areas between which several priority areas should be allocated. Systematic strengthening of strategic planning at the level of counties, cities and municipalities with the promotion of the involvement of entrepreneurs, craftsmen and associations in the application and implementation of the project. The concentration of investment on a small number of development priorities and then development projects. Intensification of the formation of expert teams from the public and private sectors that will work systematically to identify and develop project ideas and implement them. Enhancing capacity for financial management and control, and monitoring project evaluation, strengthening the ability to apply public procurement rules at local and regional level, in line with EU directives, with the acquisition of expertise on the preparation of complex infrastructure projects, training for the implementation of project environmental impact assessment procedures, the development of a feasibility study and cost-benefit analysis for the implementation of tender procedures and the preparation of tender documentation, encouraging the reporting of larger projects with significant and longer-term impacts on developments, which is easier to realise the basis of joint cooperation between several municipalities, as well as countys on registration and implementation. In cooperation with the European Commission and the EU Statistical Office, Eurostat, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has defined two non-administrative regions, NUCS 2 levels, in order to prepare optimally for EU membership. In terms of the possibility that all Croatian regions use EU funds under the same and most favourable conditions. And both new NUCs 2 regions will retain regional status in order to achieve one cohesion policy. Either for convergence purposes, at least the next two financial perspectives or for the next 14 years. Noting that this division is optimal for the current development moment of the Republic of Croatia. But that does not mean that at some other time there will be no need for its change. Under EU rules, a change in NUCS qualifications can be proposed every 3 years. This fact opens up the possibility of achieving an average of the development of European regions in that time, thus increasing the potential for funding the development of 5 relatively less developed counties that have been within northwestern Croatia, which were in a subordinate position in the event that the previously retained division into 3 NUCS regions. Due to the involvement of the City of Zagreb, the overall absorption capacity of the Republic of Zagreb is increasing especially in a situation where it is difficult to expect that EU funds will be used in the maximum amount and according to the experience of other members. The new division into 2 regions will facilitate the planning and implementation of development projects in view of the same rules to be applied in all areas of the Republic of Croatia. In which case the new division does not reduce the flexibility of the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia with regard to channelling funds to certain geographical areas within the statistical regions. In other words, state authorities have the freedom to target more funds within a particular statistical region towards less realized counties. In particular, depending on the objectives and priorities of national policy, regional development is freely decided by Member States which parts of the country will prefer more than some others, starting with the objectives and priorities of national policy, regional development and specific orientations towards regions which are more lagging behind in development. The resources available from the Structural Funds will be sufficient to implement all development projects in the region of the Republic of Croatia, and the central state will, through a series of criteria related to the implementation of operational programmes, facilitate the conditions for the use of EU funds for users and less developed areas, as well as for project holders from Slavonia and Baranja, and they will not be abolished. The above criteria will refer to favouring projects from less developed areas in the selection process, and to providing additional financial resources for the preparation and implementation of projects. The level at which such criteria will be established will be either local or county, which means that the borders of statistical regions will not be relevant for the distribution and direction of funds within the Republic of Croatia. It is important to note that regional development policy is not just about creating projects and withdrawing EU funds. The central government through the mechanisms of national regional policy will continue to need specific measures to support least developed areas in order to make it more attractive for institutional and private development resources to be in a more equal position. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds has already launched specific support programmes to prepare EU funds, with specific incentives provided for the preparation and implementation of projects for less developed areas. Last year, 30 million people were provided for such programmes, with 120 million kuna in 2013 which will significantly assist local and county units and other project holders in preparing sufficient supplies of projects and their smooth implementation. The Slavonia and Baranja area will be the most significant beneficiary of the funds available to the Republic of Croatia through the Rural Development Agricultural Fund, which does not enter the Allocation of Funds and Structural Funds made up of the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund. It is about 330m euros at the annual level for the implementation of the development programme. And that the area of Slavonia and Baranja will not be undermined by the possibility and the promotion of its own development with the help of the European Funds says the fact that, at the moment, only through the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, the preparation of development projects in both Slavonia and Baranja for structural funds, the potential values of over 80 million euros, which are the holders of units of local and regional self-government, i.e. public legal bodies whose founders are. It should therefore be pointed out once again that the EU Structural Funds available for the period 2014 to 2020 have sufficient resources to meet their region's development objectives. The experiences of the new member states show that no country in the first years of membership has succeeded in withdrawing all available funds. This is exactly what all energy and resources need to focus on preparing projects to withdraw the resources that are given to us at our disposal. The competent national authorities are obliged to provide additional support for those areas of the Republic of Croatia, which, due to its weaker, financial and administrative capacity, is in a more unfavourable position than other areas. Through the project preparation programmes launched in 2012 the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds has shown that it is going in a good direction, and this year the activities in this regard intend to strengthen further. In accordance with the arguments put forward, the position of the SDP representative club on the conclusions of the interpretation of the Croatian Parliament should be completely rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30290	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. The first is the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30291	Here's a distinguished colleague. I find this very nice that here are the parties with the Kukuriku coalition precisely on this topic appointed representatives from Slavonia to defend what is indefensible if you have read and hopefully read on this basis and get a number of votes, the plan 21 does not write the division of Croatia in 5 statistical regions but in 5 regions, these are statistical regions. At the same time, the government, which is all the time, and even us MPs who don't come from the SDP and the HNS, assured us that we are even half-world, that we are the ones who are just being intimate, etc. Convinced that it was a warrant, so this division of Croatia into two statistical regions that it was an EU order or a European Commission. Following an open letter from the mayor of Osijek-Baranja County and the president of the HDSSB, Dr Vladimir Šišljagic, the EU replied that this was not a request and that Croatia could be divided into not three statistical regions but five. Nicely said your party colleague Pandek mentioning that cabbage and cabbage and cabbage and cabbage and meat, we in Slavonia say cabbage and that on average we actually get a charm. Now that Slavonia we come from together. I expected you to tell that speaker that this isn't true. This is not true that a more glorious division like this will work better. It divides into three statistical or five statistical is far better and elevated in Virovitica monument to it. I'm so afraid that neither the monument nor the county has anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30292	Thank you very much. Answer, distinguished representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30293	Well, colleague Vinkovic, I haven't been assigned, so I volunteered to talk about this topic in front of the club, and that's what the topics have accepted. Just a few things. The truth is, I'm not talking. So now I'm in the first session of the Parliament, the truth is I don't talk often in front of the club. I prepared a lot of things, so I said it so quickly because I was just afraid it wouldn't allow time. But I would like to, despite my quickness to read again what the government has sent us in its report, and what I truly believe in. It's not a question of faith. You're calling me a question of faith. So I believe the government says this. The EU Structural Funds, which are made available to the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014-2020, have enough to achieve the development objectives of all regions. So you're discussing and arguing about it. As far as Virovitica-Podrava County is concerned, someone here mentioned, so not all counties are homogeneous. If you look at Virovitica-Podrava County, you have a richer west than the poorer east. You have the town of Slatin which is a completely economic and demographically even devastated city. The town of Slatina was once the bearer of that development. But what I'm trying to understand here is rationally, which is what government colleagues say won't diminish Slavonia's absorption capacity or Baranja's or any county at all. I believe that. And that's finally my attitude. That's why I was talking here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30294	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Sagar, is not good at manipulating numbers. Especially when you have someone on the other side who has a fact. So as for the usability of the projects at the end of 2011, it was 37%, and this is what you're talking about in 2012. These are projects that began to be negotiated in 2011. Among other things, there was one big project called Occupied Novska, and this project has already raised you to 49.6%. you have practically not started a single project this year in 2012. You grew to 57% on projects that the HDZ government started in 2011. It's a fact you can't escape from. But it's not good from the ones in Brussels who listen to us elementing who's more than who's less contracted than how willing we are to negotiate even more. That's the point of the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30296	Thank you. Replication response. Honorable representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30297	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Shuker. I'd like to proceed from this last sentence of yours. It's really important how many good projects we're gonna set up. The most important thing is when they come to the contract. You mentioned here in a few replicas that when we talk about acceptable costs, so the 75% that the EU will finance. We must not forget that there are certain unacceptable costs we will also have to finance from national sources. So we can expect that the million euro project of the total value of some 600,000 kuna can be expected from the EU and the rest will have to be financed from national or local budgets. I've relied on what you've been saying from 70% to 80% and a lot more than that. In order to have good projects they must be well prepared about this I spoke in this part when I referred to. So the most important thing is to prepare good projects. My opinion is that every project that's good regardless of whether the former government has started to have to continue it is simply my life's view.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30298	Thank you very much. The last replica is the distinguished representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30299	Dear colleague Sagar, when I listened to you for a moment, I thought I was somewhere in Finland. You said everything in the superlative that by dividing into two statistical regions honey and milk will flow. Everything will be able to be realized. You're not giving the opposition a chance. The promoters of the second opinion and the supporters of the second opinion rule the matter, do not rush, do not think about the quick speech, I don't think they denigrated, they analyzed have an argument, and you claim without convincing analysis without any agreement abruptly overnight that what you say is finally good and in the beginning you almost refused to be able to do anything and thought that the opposition's proposal would go away. The government's position is yours. It's very strange how members of the Kukuriku coalition blend with all the views of the government. I used to say that like the Parliament came from the government and even then they blend with the government's views when the first former vice president or prime minister changed his opinion as socks, so it's time for two statistical regions, so it's time for 400,000 signatures and I'm back for 200 thousand signatures. And you'll support it, that's the second item of the agenda we're waiting for. I think you lose your conviction when you follow your leaders when they jump on their heads into an empty pool and you jump.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30300	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30301	Here's a colleague I'm in the debate truth I'm fast it's a fact I read fast because I was afraid I wouldn't be able to read it all. But it's really not exactly how you want to show it now. So other than the Government of the Republic of Croatia there are experts who have given their opinion on this topic and some of these respected experts I have read too. One of them is the doctor of science Sanja Maleković and Dr. Krešimir Jurin, Institute of International Relations in Zagreb, who has elaborated very well what I was talking about here and what is the position of the government. So in that view of government, I see a lot of relevant facts that talk about us being able to attract as much funds as possible in this way. In other words, this division allows us to withdraw the largest possible part of the cake. Whether Zagreb will do better, Zagreb is the capital of the Republic of Croatia according to Zagreb gravitate many, and my county is gravitating towards Zagreb. We can't say that we will make progress if Zagreb will stagnate. So, the Republic of Croatia will progress when the city of Zagreb progresses simply. And we're talking about 30, 40 years of coughing and 30, 40 years of needing help then it's not a good message for us here. So as soon as possible and as best this Republic of ours develops.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30302	Thank you very much. I draw attention to Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time of application for individual debate. And now, on behalf of the promoter, we will be approached by distinguished representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30303	I mean, I'm not going to go out after everyone, but you've really encouraged me, especially your debate. Let's be honest, I followed her because I've been dreaming about this government report for four months. You didn't say your word. You read the 7-page report from word to word, you skipped one 5 passages. And you say you're ready for this debate. But aside from that. You said something else. Reiterating the government's report, and you believe the report has enough EU funding. Well, we say there are, it's virtual money these money's only on paper available to the Republic of Croatia. The problem is that they are not 100% of the funds, but at best they are 85%, and for Croatia, the problem is that they are not ready to provide their 15%. And it is not a problem that the EU has not provided us with the funds but rather that we are unprepared to withdraw those funds and not just because of the lack of projects, I said to all three levels we have failed. In the absence of a strategic document, too, we do not have a valid current Strategy for regional development of the Republic of Croatia and regarding the insufficient number of well-prepared projects and administrative capacity. That's the problem. I hope you understand what I'm talking about. You mentioned Eurostat's true is what it says in the Europe 2020 strategy. But I don't know if you've ever read the basic five objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy because if you'd read the basic 5 objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, you wouldn't have read it so quickly and gone over it like that. For your sake and for the sake of the public, I'll tell you if it's important. 5 of the main objectives of this strategy when you mentioned it, and it is for Croatia to achieve a 75% employment rate for the age group population in 20-64 as the first target. The second is to achieve a 3% R & D investment rate, the third is the 20/20/20 climate energy target, to be a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 20 and a few years ago, perhaps 30 if conditions are favourable, to increase the share of renewable energy sources by 20% in final consumption and to increase energy efficiency by 20%. The fourth goal is to be the school dropout rate of less than 10% and the fifth goal is for at least 20 million people to live outside the risk of poverty. Since you mentioned the Europe 2020 Strategy. But when you express satisfaction with the division of the Republic of Croatia from three regions to two regions. Let's not act, someone asked why this division was made, why the ruling had changed their mind now, so the opinion was that it would be five regions, you wrote it in the plan, although in a month you deleted it in the program, you said you didn't specify five. But in November 2011, it said exactly five regions, said counterpart Vinkovic of the region. Now look, they say why they changed their minds, but it is clear that everyone understands us, so under the pressure of the former first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Cacic. That's the whole point. The change from three to two instead of three to five went due to the blackmail of Mr. Cacic and I admit that he fought for SZ Croatia and I don't mind. But I resent the ministers from Slavonia and Baranja for when it was decided, that for the SZ Croatia... There is, there is, where does Minister Jakovina and Minister Vrdoljak come from? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Slavonia and Baranja, it's all one thing. For they did not raise their voice against wanting the assistance of the SZ Croatia going to the harm of Slavonia and Baranja. That's the real truth about this. Why does no one ask the question of the illogicality of such a large region? Nearly 3 million, 2 million and 900 thousand inhabitants of this region. The average, Mr. Deputy Minister, well knows that the average in the European Union is about a million and 800 thousand inhabitants of the NUC-2 region, and we have one region million and 400, and the other region is 2 and 900. What kind of logic is that? In this 14 counties, 13 plus the City of Zagreb, there 7 counties. Well, it must be clear from that asymmetry that something is wrong. The first Deputy Prime Minister of the former, Mr. Cacic, is no longer in the government, the government was supposed to get the strength to say no, let's make our plan come true because he, and Mrs. Pusic, too, has the common sense to be five regions, only that should have been achieved. You mentioned the Lisbon Treaty, that in its three articles, it speaks in 174, 175 and 176 about the importance that the European Union attaches to regional development. The whole chapter one thinks that 18 in the Lisbon Treaty is dedicated to this topic, and we in Croatia have not adopted a valid strategy for regional development or a new law on regional development, and we are at the door of entry into the European Union. And what will happen to us will happen to us that we will have at our disposal as you said quite enough money, and I fully agree with that, but virtually, in Brussels. And as far as it will reach Zagreb and all of Croatia, we are now talking about Zagreb as the capital and in all of Croatia, that is the problem. We do not point to the illogicalness of the division in two regions because we are jealous of Zagreb, I am speaking again, but first of all because the Government has not completed its primary task, and the basic task has been to provide funds to undeveloped regions so that they can apply for these funds. It's the essence of the story, the division into two regions, only artificially enables an increase in absorption capacity, and in reality it means nothing. We're tapping in place. And I'll mention one more, you said it like this, it's not a problem if it's going to pull Zagreb, I agree with that, the problem is that it won't end up being pulled by anyone then. If Zagreb has no projects and has money it will not withdraw the funds again, unless it has administrative capacity. They won't be able to withdraw because they won't approve us, Brussels doesn't approve of that kind of money. If it doesn't match that first prerequisite that we have a valid strategic document, and we don't have it yet, here's the seventh month at the door. And just a few more words about decentralisation. You keep swearing to decentralisation, right, and look what you wrote in that plan 21. It's a bunch of paper, so then it's got to be done. Here it is, in Chapter 3. Regional development and use of European Union funds. Based on the example of many Member States of the European Union, we will decentralised the management of regional operational programmes by transferring regional competitiveness management... to NUTS-2 regional level. In this respect, since 2012, the capacity of regional government levels has to be strengthened intensively to be ready to take over the management of operational programmes for regional development. It's a finished quote. It is written in a still valid and valid document of this ruling set. And what does decentralisation look like in your way? You told us it wasn't regional, it wasn't decentralised. The central government will decide who they give the money to. And we are taught by the experience that we went through in Slavonia and Baranja just to be the only ones who have projects I'm not sure you'll give us that money. I'm afraid they would even be able to let funds go to waste rather than come to Slavonia and Baranja as much as they need to come in order to get the rest of Croatia and the rest of them are underdeveloped. Only Zagreb, Istria and Primorje-Gorski County were developed and there is a Dubrovnik-Neretva County at 99% of the Croatian average. All 18 of 21 counties according to EU criteria fall into underdeveloped, the first less developed. That's Croatia's problem Here's a thank you. [[/Intruder Reiner: Time. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30304	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. The first is the respected representative of Skvaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30305	Here's a thank you. Well, I think we can all agree that the basic goal for all of us is to reduce these regional differences. Secondly, I would like to really explain what statistical regions are and what territorial regions are. If we're talking about some regions of five or six or more to end the county or to do something, that's one thing, and the statistical regions of this part are quite another and don't mix it up. On the other hand, I wouldn't exactly say that some of the things that are defined there are the fruits of some kind of blackmail. I think it's primarily one fruit of sound political and economic logical thinking which and how best we need in this part that those money and the resources we have are virtual but very specific means if you know how to reach them. And of course, in that part, we also agree that, in the taste of it, we need changes, changes, ways of reforming local self-government from the state level, that we all help each other out together how to get out of this backdrop of development. Because my north of Croatia, too, which someone doesn't tell me then, that I'm talking about what I need to talk about and say, but I know for my region that we can help each other, to invest these funds, to take advantage of them. On the other hand, we need to start thinking a little bit about reforming our mentality. Because here we've heard that someone only wants to have those resources for themselves, that they can get those development funds for 50 years, so that's what they're saying for 50 years they think they're gonna be underdeveloped. I wouldn't want us to be underdeveloped for 50 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30306	Thank you very much. They will respond to the replica, the respected representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30307	Her colleague, you know that's not true. So what's it cost you? We're at 40% now. Well, we don't want 40 years of underdeveloped. Well, I say, but we have a chance. Ma needs every cent out of the EU, every cent we don't get on one invested kuna to get 5 or 10. A thousand if we can get it out. So I didn't vote for us to go to the EU because I want you to live for 10 million and take over power in Zadar, or I don't know where, but I want the money to end. We were badly injured in the war. And if we can pull 20 years and 30 years until we get to 75%, we're pulling that money. The difference between statistical regions and these regions should not be specifically explained. So there is a regulation of the European Parliament back in 1999, and then in 2003, it was called on by this 1059/2003 which accurately identified the importance of these statistical regions. However, what is most important to you is a message from a colleague of mine from the HDSSB and everyone who signed this one, I thank all those who supported this initiative of ours. We are fighting for Croatia not to be divided into two statistical regions, but into 4 and 5 respectively, that would be the most honest 5. That's how we fight for your region where you come from. Do you understand? Because this split in two is worse for you than it has five regions. How can you not understand that? Because then you'd be at 50% of the EU average, not 64. And we'd have the right to draw money from the EU. We could, and your grandson could be a congressman. You understand? That's the point, draw the money. So why don't I just want to get out of the EU if there is, if she's given us a chance there to pay a dozen countries. The rest of the wolf, right, when you're looking at that balance sheet.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30308	Thank you very much. And a replica Just a little bit of order, please. [[/Intruder Buric: The point is to win. The thing is, we get it.]] The next replica has a respected representative, Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30309	A fellow Buric, here's a short one. Of course I used the government's views in my debate. I think it's normal that I used the government's views because the interpretation is about the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding EU funds. You are here when you said that I read the goals actually set as the objectives of EU cohesion funds if I understood that. I've read some of those goals. So the goals are clearly set. We're talking about funds here. To get to that goal, we need resources and that's the story. You have yours. You have now reiterated your position – five regions, the best solution. Why do you deny me the right to have my own position and to impute me that this is the government's position? So if I trust the government that I eventually voted for and gave her the trust, I have the right to do so. Why would you deny it to me? I don't understand that. And I said that I was not only referring to the government's views, but to some relevant experts who speak in this direction, that at this point in time for the Republic of Croatia, the best division in the two regions and that also here, the Deputy Minister made it clear and loud that there is no danger that Slavonia and Baranja would lose any project in this context. And that's what's leading me, here's what's just logically very clear. I said I read pretty fast, but I refuse to think that what I read wasn't logically stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30310	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Dinko Buric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30311	Well, it was very well read, but there was no logic in it because you didn't have your own discussion but you read the government's report. And that's true. I'm not insulting you. I'm just saying. You didn't discuss it. You read the report we already read four months ago. And when you refer to experts who have said that dividing into two regions is the best for Croatia, here is one sitting here who wrote in scientific paper or to give up doctoral dissertation so let him say it's not worth what I wrote. I'm sorry, I don't want you to be offended. But here's Mr. Deputy Minister sitting right here. He is among those who have given us the right to be rich and poor together. Only if Mr. Deputy Minister convinces me that since 2009 when he wrote his doctoral dissertation by 2013 has so dramatically changed the situation in Croatia when it comes to regional developmental diversity, will I accept it. But I'm not calling you. You don't matter now. What matters is what you said he had an expert. I haven't had a chance to do that, and I've read about it getting ready for this, so let's make it a thousand-and-a-half pages of all kinds of material. I did not find anyone who said this was good for Croatia because anyone who has a healthy mind as said by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Mrs Vesna Pusic, who has no common sense, will not say that any division for Croatia is better than the division of five regions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30312	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30313	Dear counterpart Buric, you were absolutely right about the then mayor, the former first Deputy Prime Minister who said among other things and even asked for a referendum to be called when it was practically the Varazdin County and northwestern Croatia and said it was a long-term strategic sacrifice of northern Croatia, but also damage to all of Croatia. It's a 100% political decision and it has nothing to do with the profession. What happened now, not to mention what Plan 21 said in that part, I know very well what statistical regions are, which are territorial, or administrative regions don't have to explain it to me either. But the fact is that it's lost from the government's strategic programme where it's just said in five statistical regions not on two, not on three, but on five. And so Slavonia and Baranja as one statistical region instead of 6 to make it clear to someone, instead of 6 apples by joining up to 8 with Zagreb and northwestern Croatia will receive 1 apple. And it will not equalise the percentage of development with other parts of Croatia and we will not reach the same level, but on that average we will probably be perhaps around 75% including the City of Zagreb and northwestern Croatia and the real situation is that we will eventually reach one 50 percent of the EU's GDP. And that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30314	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Buric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30315	Thank you. When you mentioned the former Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, he was former but he was involved in setting this up and I think with all due respect I speak, therefore not undermining the former but it is the fact that he is former. So, then, when this was brought and we voiced in Slavonia and Baranja against it, against the obvious injustice of Slavonia and Baranja and no one contradicts our arguments, it's very interesting. There's no contradiction from the Prime Minister either. Here's even the Deputy Minister himself, I expected the minister to come and you know. I know you're ready, but you have no arguments to deny our views. But Mr. Cacic also insulted not politicians in Slavonia and Baranja but all citizens of Slavonia and Baranja and that statement if I remember correctly stop crying and finally show your ability. And what did he do from 2007 to 2011? He moaned, cried, threatened with a referendum, and as he showed his ability, we saw. And for the good part, today we have problems that we have and because of it, but well, that's already a thing of the past. However, no one here is really a colleague of the Jagar I wanted to tell you about, but then a man forgets, you said he has enough resources. Pleased to meet you, Mr. Deputy Minister, I was expecting you to speak, and here I am calling you to respond, so what about
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30316	All I'd like to do is draw attention to you and your Honorable representative, Vinkovic, not his colleague, Sagaru.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30317	Here's Vinkovic, I agree. No one has said yet and how much we are actually going to get the money because it was planned to get so much money, and the multiannual financial framework we have an announcement for 2014 to 2020 is in a serious crisis. It is not 1033 billion euros, but the president of the European Council has made a compromise decision to cut 75m euros. If the total EU budget decreases to 958m euros, be sure that Croatia will not get its share of the cake as much as planned, and you said the funds are waiting for us. And nobody's talking about it yet, and that's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30318	Thank you very much. Now we move on to the next club debate. And next on behalf of the HDZ Club is Honorable Representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's so much that's already been said, Mr. Buric is honestly more or less what I wanted to say already, but of course I'm going to try to say it in the context of this whole story the way I see it. First of all, I would like to stress in particular that it is a significant fact that in this representative body, therefore, more attention is being paid to EU funds, hence regional development, in the Croatian Parliament. Is this a subject that is very often from different sides, and also from the government's representatives through various wings without adequate explanations. The topic is extremely complex and is quite difficult about it, demanding to find all relevant information and therefore subject to both disinformation and flat-rate presentation. I therefore believe that the Government should not have taken a decision to divide the statistical regions without a prior debate by all stakeholders. I think that this debate might also lead to some kind of solution that would satisfy the conditionality of all those who know what and how important the European Fund for the Republic of Croatia is. So, in the context of this interpretation, I would point out a few important issues, if I think that it will play an important role and that it will benefit for further discussion, not only in terms of NAC 2 divisions, but also in a broader sense in regional development policy. First of all, Croatian citizens often hear on this topic from representatives of the government different statements that the funds are presented as a kind of magic box, which will be poured into the money that will later be poured into the Croatian budget, and all we need to do is be like bees industrious, smart, nominating quality projects and money. For example, on page 1 of the government's reply, we are told that, I don't know, in 7.5 years, we will be able to share 10 and more billion euros, so free, free money. So I think it's about a fairy tale and how by paraphrasing Milton Friedman, he would say, "There's no free lunch." So we need to realistically analyse everything that is before us and give meaning, first of all prepare to use structural instruments. Why am I saying that? We know that when pre-accession funds are used, we have a pre-financing rate of usually greater than 50%, depending on the component, even up to 90% of the funds. In other words, between 50% and 90% of the EU's funding for a particular project, we can get ahead of time, funding the project, part of which, of course, is co-financed by whoever implements the project, so I'm a user and that can work. If the funds are not going in the right direction, we are obliged to return the EU money, but as far as we know the funds, so structural, cohesion and rural development funds do not have such a pre-financing system, or it is significantly less. In other words, users will have to give up their funds that return from funds after the end of each phase of the projects. So in this context I would like to hear exactly and verified in what way and what we specifically think in this regard work, how the government intends to approach the problem of providing these funds, given and envisaged a view of some credit tranches with favourable, minimum possible interest, whether it will go through HBO or something like that, in any case something that will ensure continuity. I think that such an examination would be much more useful than a flossula to get the money, we just have to write projects, because we are all aware of how useful EU funds are, how much they mean to Croatia, and I think that most political options on some joint debate would support the government's efforts, which would, of course, win the goal that we all want. In the first part of the text of the government's response to the interpretation, it is explained that so far, if the remaining division had been fatal to northwestern Croatia, it would have been. Well, I have to say, from my point of view, that's not at all the point of debate. In fact, no one claims that it should have remained an old classification, or rather, the vast majority does indeed hold that it would be more appropriate to form a new classification, but not like this and not in this way. I point out that NUC 2 classifications are necessary for the use of cohesion policy instruments, so funds upon entry into the Union, so it becomes relevant especially now that we are getting closer to the EU. And all that existed before the division that wasn't optimal, it didn't affect the use of pre-accession funds, so there's always been a moment for a good, quality debate that might have gotten a solution by saying that everyone would support. At points that the government, to which the government explains the benefits of the new division, I will notice one where the government says in such a division, all Croatian areas under equal conditions will be able to use EU funds. So I have to notice that all Croatian landscapes are not equal or are not equally developed, so this is an example of equality towards the unequal, and I don't think that's the point, but that can't be the point, and it can't be the meaning of regional development. I would like to point out one more important thing to me, which is that the government has never made it clear what the difference in the use of funds is if one region falls below 90%, the EU GDP average, or above 90% of the average. Except for the fact that it's in the process of entering convergence. How familiar I am with cohesion policy instruments during this financial period were 3 funds, so 2 Structural European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund and Cohesion Fund, and we also have 3 objectives of cohesion policy, namely convergence, competitiveness of employment and territorial co-operation. If you're in a region that's below 90% then you're in target 1 and you can use all 3 funds under certain conditions. What I do not understand and what I am interested in is what is the exact difference in the possibility of using funds or nominating projects, if a region belongs to regions that are above 90% of the EU average. I've been trying to find the exact data that concerns the future financial perspective, and I've noticed several elements. Therefore, according to the new proposals of the European Commission for 2014-2020, where there is no official directive yet but are available, a number of thematic proposals, objectives, investments from funds or objectives with which projects should be harmonised, namely research, innovation, information communication technology, competitiveness of small medium-sized enterprises, adaptation and management of risks related to climate change, environmental protection and energy efficiency, sustainable transport, employment, social environment, combating poverty, etc. As for the EU co-financing rate and funds. They would cover a maximum of 50% of the values in developed regions that are above 90% of the EU average, 60% in transition regions, so 75-90% and 85% in less developed regions mean less than 75% of the average. In other words, the city of Zagreb could apply uninterruptedly with its projects as a region that belongs to developed regions and as the largest number of European regions receive funds in the range of up to 50% of the project values. It seems illogical to me that the EU would lay down such rules for the use of funds based on which most of its regions could not participate. Since the European Commission's proposals to focus on developed regions are on projects that promote global competitiveness in the knowledge-based economy, as well as on the transition to environmentally acceptable energy and economic governance, the majority and most of the European Social Fund's resources would fall to developed regions. The city of Zagreb would not remain deprived of the possibility of proposing the necessary projects and expect the found economic structure to largely determine the potential and growth of certain regions, so from this aspect it should not worry about Zagreb's inability to move forward. Well, I'd like to ask if there are any more specific clarifications, or real information, in that sense. Next in the text given to the answer, which is said to increase the overall absorption capacity of the Republic of Croatia, of course, I must mention that this was simply not necessary, even inappropriately, because no one would have thought to be excluded from the absorption capacity of the Republic of Croatia. However, according to a different model, i.e. by a different classification of a model that would be more acceptable to some, although I also support this one in terms of five regions, I have mentioned in the current hour, for example, dividing it into 4 NUC 2 regions, one of which would make the city of Zagreb, therefore it belongs, has developed over 920% of the average, and the remaining three would be defined in accordance with the needs of optimisation of the statistical regionalisation of Croatia at a level which therefore meets the Eurostat criteria for the number of residents of 8000 to 3 million, but achieves a maximum financial impact of access to funds for the entire Republic of Croatia. So three other regions could be Pannonian, North, Adriatic Croatia. The argument used by the government that the option to single out Zagreb is not acceptable to the Agromic Commission, because Zagreb has less than 800 thousand inhabitants simply does not stand and is not appropriate. There are a number of exceptions in the EU, such as South Aegean, Ion Islands, but not just island regions, but a whole range of regions in France throughout the European region, which, with less than 800 inhabitants, were able to make it to this level by smart quality lobbying, so I think Zagreb could. He was indicative of his number approaching the number of 800,000 and I think that by quality lobbying he could have become an independent region. In this regard, a quality debate was to be organised, as it can be organised within two weeks. Simply because of the importance of the topic, I think all those I have already said who are interested and these are all counties, so the whole of Croatia would try to find a simple solution that will be good and adequate for all of Croatia. In addition, concrete examples are discussed in the Government's response to interpretation. The projects the government has been saying would support its engagement in Slavonia and Baranja. I must note already it is said here that the moss is about projects that actually show the engagement of the previous government since it is about projects either launched or already realised by the same. And I end up stressing that this way of making decisions on such important issues is not appropriate. The government pointed out something completely different in the pre-election program so that, suddenly without any notice, without any consultation, it would approach a completely different solution. Unfortunately, that's already over. However, such things should not be repeated. That's not correct. This is not necessary and I think this is the way to make a decision without entering into the content of any decision causing tension that we do not need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30320	Thank you very much. Here's your exposure caused three replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30321	Thank you. Dear colleague here, I'll try to give you a brief answer to your questions if they succeed. So as short as possible. ... Now look at it this way. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The Cohesion Fund shall finance environmental and transport infrastructures and the development of renewable energy sources. So it is foreseen for countries that have less than 90% of the EU's average of these 27 members. The European Regional Development Fund is financing the development of general infrastructure, innovation, investment to create new jobs. It is foreseen for those who have less than 75%. So they can use the Cohesion and this fund. And that European Social Fund can be used by everyone. It is therefore financing projects of professional education, etc. support for employment. Here's what I could do for you, if that's what helped you, I'm glad. But you said one good thing Zagreb could have been a separate region. It was true, it could have been a separate region if our negotiators had insisted on it. There are 271 NUC regions in the EU in these 27 countries and we said 27 600 to 11 million are the range of these NUC 2 regions of these 271. So there's no hard-on for 800 grand to 3 million, and it's not true that we couldn't handle it. Slovakia entered in 2004 and that regulation was adopted in 2003. They put the same thing to themselves as a separate region, there are 600,000 Slovaks who didn't come there, so when they told them they couldn't, they nodded. But they said we're not gonna do what we want. There's no principle to take or leave, and we do everything by principle take or leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30322	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the esteemed representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Buric, for the explanation I'm not sure that's the kind of explanation I wanted, but you helped me. And what you said about Zagreb, so of course I think that all of us here think that Zagreb, by its development and by everything that it is and that it has a different perspective already at its own level of development, could have been an absolutely independent region, and simply because of this miraculously overnight division happened without public discussion of all interested people, I think that this is a key problem, that may explain it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30324	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think we can agree in that part when you said that the change was due. This means that the division that has been in the three statistical regions has absolutely not been good, because one region in northern Croatia has been absolutely denied. Now with this division in that part, we all have the same opportunities and access to the resources on us to take advantage of them. On the other hand, as long as there should be those regions, I would ask the deputy to maybe explain a little bit better, but I think in what I know if you go to more regions, you have the same global. And it's up to you to divide that global by region as much as you think they can absorb those funds. And what if they fail to use those funds then there are problems how to fully allocate them to other levels. According to that logic, it would be best if we had a region that could be better defined in that part. Please, if you can explain. On the other hand, you said that Croatia's truly great underdevelopment is not good, but I would say who contributed to this great underdevelopment of Croatia that we now have to watch who has now gone well in that part, parts of Istria and in some way the cities by the sea that use it, so they do have large incomes per capita compared to us can say both Slavonia and northern Croatia, that we in northern Croatia had to use these funds as well. And we can say from that experience that it's not virtual means, but means that can be used if you know it. I can tell myself that unfortunately we had to make these funds a city library we couldn't get from the ministry. We could finance our... zone where we couldn't get a single square meter for the zone, we had to use our infrastructure development and we managed to use it. And so can the rest of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30326	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30327	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, you've said a lot of things, and a little noise, I don't know if I've got it all figured out. I said about the old division that it was even unnecessary to discuss. None of the colleagues here who support this interpretation have asked for it, but they're all against it, and in that sense, I don't even know what the government's answer was supposed to go to. Why is Croatia, or Zagreb, only developed? I wouldn't really want to bid. You may have been worse developed you had in Varazdin Mayor Chehok. Whether he contributed to it or not, I don't know. I know why Vukovar isn't. There's been a war, there's been a war, we've defended Croatia, maybe it's one of the reasons. I'm not gonna say there aren't any others, but I don't want to bid. I thought we were going towards a common goal, not to go back and just talk about things that might not be forgotten but not in this way to use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30328	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30329	Dear colleague Milos, I think that at the very beginning you said the essence that actually, what we're saying today should have happened a long time ago that the government shouldn't have made a decision without the discussion of all the stakeholders here in the Parliament, and then it's only then that we see the relationship to the Parliament of Government, that we're just a ficus or a fig tree leaf for their decisions. If everyone saw the EU funds as some kind of magic box with no bottom, we'd just be pulling money. Now that we're in Europe, only millions of people are going to fuck around, but that's not going to happen. A colleague Buric had previously asked if someone had calculated how much money it would be if someone calculated how much bits in two regions, how much in four regions it would be in five regions. Which will give us one thing, which the other, will compare and said here's the debate here you decide, but that didn't happen. Zagreb should not argue with the rest of Croatia. Zagreb can be an independent region. We were not allowed to discuss this in the Parliament. The stone of the stumbling block is certainly not Zagreb, but a rock of stumbling the government's attitude towards all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30330	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative, Milas, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30331	Thank you very much. Mr. Vuksic, thank you for your support. Of course I still think that this I'm going to call it thematic debate, it should have happened long before, and before that there was yet to be a broad public debate of all interested. I'm sure we might have a different conversation today. Well, that can be applied to other things, not getting into health care dues, maybe even there might have been less repercussion, as it may have been for a few months now, and we might have been focusing on more important problems affecting this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30332	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Minister of Regional Development and the EU Fund, Dr. Jaksha Pugliz to address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30333	Well, here's a lot of things being said, I wish I had more time to answer all these comments. But first, let me say that I am extremely glad that the EU theme is funds. So, we're talking about interpolation, each of us obviously has an opinion on it, hardly agreeing, even if that public debate had been held that I have to say that we were at a press conference when we announced the results of the agreement with the EU Commission immediately said that we were sorry that there was no time for a public debate. But obviously from all this to make it very difficult to reach consensus. And we're running out of time. So we are talking about two months available to Croatia at the time to reach agreement with the EU Commission. In fact, agreements related to statistical regions are reached every three years. So the last time it could be done was last year 2012, and the next deadline is 2015. Due to the European Commission service procedure, we had less than two months to reach that agreement and we managed to reach it even though it was not easy. And that was absolutely, to clear that up, on the initiative of the Croatian government. So there was no European Commission initiative, it was exclusively the Croatian government's initiative. We've done it in a very short time, and of course we think we've done an extraordinary job. A public debate that, of course, would have wanted to have happened wasn't just a matter of time. But let me answer a few more things now. So much has been mentioned here about the regions themselves. As for the division, we have done simulations, we have made several variations, we have talked to the European Commission. She was a variant where the City of Zagreb was singled out as a special unit, she was not accepted. This isn't the first time she hasn't been accepted. Col. Buric cited several examples of NUTS-2 statistical regions and administrative ones that were accepted. However, this happened before the regulation came into force, i.e. in the case of the City of Bratislava, it was part of the negotiations. These negotiations were concluded again before the regulation came into force. After the regulation has entered into force, you do not have any agreement regarding the NUTS-2 region where you have a region of less than 800,000 inhabitants. For these very reasons, the European Union has adopted certain rules for changing statistical regions at this NUTS-2 level. What's going on? The first and most basic criteria that Member States have when defining NUTS-2 regions are is that the majority of the territory of the country, as long as it can use funds under the most favourable conditions. The more territory under the most favourable conditions, the more time EU funds can use. And then we're in a situation like Portugal that's been able to, the whole country was within target area 1, when they realized that the capital of Lisbon was dragging the region around over 75% changed the border and singled out the city of Lisbon as special. But as long as they could use the funds they kept Lisbon inside, within the NUTS-2 region, why, because the value of the criteria for allocation is also the number of inhabitants. The more residents you have in the region under target 1 you have the greater alocation because one of the factors... that counts for that location is the number of inhabitants. That's why it's in our interest to have the City of Zagreb inside. The same thing was done by the Irish when they realized that they would no longer be able to use funds in the whole area of Objective 1, then they singled out the Dublin area, so this JI area is a special region so that the rest of Ireland can use EU funds as much as possible. So that's what Member States do and every three years they have a chance to do it. We have now agreed on a division that allows all of Croatia at least two perspectives to use funds under the most favourable conditions. Every three years we can change that, so the next chance is 2015, the change is applied as counterpart Buric accurately stated for the 2020-2026 perspective. And that's done, it's a purely pragmatic approach. And I still have to admit, I didn't understand where any project from Slavonia would lose in this change of statistical regions. What will happen to Technopolis now is bad in this new division, which would not happen in the division of three regions. I have to admit, I still haven't been able to figure that out. The key issue always remains the preparation of projects and this has nothing to do with this division into statistical regions. Please, here I hope we agree on that. My colleague Buric said a few more things, so I'll take the opportunity to look back on it. The strategies, therefore, as far as the strategy is concerned, are also to clarify things, so the strategic framework for the use of EU funds is two documents in the perspective of 2007-2013, these are operational programmes and that is the national strategic reference framework. Both types of documents have been made and are also in Brussels in the adoption process. These documents must be adopted after 1.7, and they have already been prepared for us, sent, Brussels has been manifested, we still have some additions, so this is about us having programming documents. The regional development strategy is not that kind of document. Of course we should have it, the regional development strategy is a national document which is of course very important in the whole context of strategic planning as well as any other sectoral strategy. But for the use of EU funds from 2007-2013, the reference documents are operational programmes and the national strategic reference framework. Both programs are made, you have drafts on the Ministry's web pages, so as far as the strategic part is concerned, there's no problem at all. We are now starting to develop a new Regional Development Strategy that will define strategic priorities at regional level and we will introduce some innovations, you will soon learn about it as in the Regional Development Act, which concerns precisely the territorial level at which strategic planning will work. Allow one more thing, the truth is, only in that report I would add one correction, when we say that this division has enabled all Croatian regions equal opportunities to use EU funds, I would just insert the word initial, therefore equal, initial. And the Croatian government will make sure that the less developed areas get even more favourable conditions than other areas, but those initial ones when we talk about that share of co-financing from the EU funds will be the same for the whole of Croatia, and the Croatian government will help make the less developed areas not 85% of the grants but 90 or 95, because the rest will be credited or the state budget funds will be used to help less developed units with less fiscal capacity. There were still a lot of questions, but I won't go into the details of my colleagues, Lucic, etc., but here. I stress once again, the Croatian Government has absolutely enough mechanisms available to ensure that the funds are directed to the most needed ones, and this is what we have done. Unfortunately, there is no respected partnership approach that we really advocate wherever we can. I just need to remind you when we're on a partnership approach right now we're in the phase of developing operational programs for the period 14:20. All Croatian counties have their representative in the working bodies, but all Croatian counties. So we're not going to go out to the county with a finished solution so we're going to say here's a commentary. We have the representatives of the county involved in the process of developing operational programmes itself, so I really think that as far as partnering approaches the government is concerned, it respects him very much, and it keeps him up to the end. As with our programmes within the Ministry of Regional Development itself, decentralised management has been discussed, etc. We now have programmes where the Ministry of Regional Development exclusively lays down certain rules on project selection and leaves project selection at regional level. We're just making sure that these projects are in line with some roof rules chosen to fit into operational programmes. And we left the selection at regional level. This is done through regional coordinators, i.e. county development agencies and partner councils at the county level which each county has. So when we talk about a partnership approach, we really try every step of the way, in every activity, that we respect it as much as possible. I repeat, here for a short period of time, it really was such a short time. We had to work and act quickly and there was no time for real partnership consultations, but I'm still standing on it and I'm sure we've done an extraordinary job. We saved customers from northwestern Croatia 300m euros for co-financing. This is if we are to talk about concrete benefits and resources here is the greatest concrete benefit we have achieved, not to say that we have made it easier to run for projects because it is now a much wider range of areas where users from northwestern Croatia can contact. They are no longer limited to those percentages that were referred to earlier as necessary, how many projects must be taken and from which thematic priority is withdrawn. So, these conditions are significantly reduced, they are relaxed and the area of northwestern Croatia will be able to have much easier conditions for running projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30334	Thank you very much. Here's your presentation. It's caused three replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy, though, I don't take our conversation as a struggle, so I think we should have a partner relationship, and we have to strive together to make as much money as possible out of these funds. However, I must be honest that the guy's arguments didn't have enough time for a public hearing I don't know, we did the best possible job. They're already in contradiction with something that happened a few years ago, but they're even contradictory with the entire government's work. The government initially said she promised a better life, this, that. We're aware today of the situation we're living in and I just don't know if it's all holding water. I think a public debate can be realised in two weeks, invite all interested, sit, agree on the subject, goals and let's work. That there was no time or it became the practice of the Croatian government. The other day we had a conversation about the Law on Electronic Media. It wasn't a public debate either. Why don't we have time? What's this about? Are we some kind of democracy or something? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30336	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Dinko Buric. Okay. Then the next replica is the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30337	Here's just one sentence. You said Portugal, that they realized that the capital of Lisbon was in their way, so they put it in a special region. So is Ireland – Dublin. So they, why don't we learn from other people's mistakes? So what we're proposing right now is that the city of Zagreb is a special region, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30338	That's what we're done with. Don't answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30339	The Portuguese did the same at the time when they were threatened to cross the 75% threshold. So, continental Croatia is currently at 62.63%. So it's not near the threshold. God forbid we get into a situation very quickly that we are close to the threshold and then we will make this move to separate the city of Zagreb. As for the proposal to join Zagreb County, think about it. This means that the interests of 300,000 inhabitants of Zagreb County will be sacrificed in order to free up space for everyone else. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30340	Thank you very much. We now have a debate on behalf of the HDSSB club, Honorary Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Yeah, on behalf of the promoter. Okay, there was a misunderstanding. I didn't get it. I thought you would after all. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30341	So, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister, you've asked a few questions and a few findings, and then in two minutes I didn't get there. Now look, the first time was a leak. So wait! Time leak 23 December 2011 established new Government of the Republic of Croatia, 23 December 2011. The deadline as you said about handover or change, because we had a valid division into statistical regions, was 7 months in those three regions in 2013. Eight months and you say you've come to the Zeitnot as you say. And you know why you came to Zeitnot? Because you haven't even thought about what's going on and what's the weather like in front of us. And then, probably someone warned us from the EU, or maybe someone accidentally came up with it, and then it went fast. But it didn't go quickly under EU pressure. I will remind you of the letter, the response from Commissioner of the European Commission, Mr Hahn, who asked Mr Šišljagić on 19 October last year, here I will quote again, answered the following: "By July 2012 regional statistics in Croatia were collected and transferred to EUROSTAT related to three NUTS 2 statistical regions. The Commission has not proposed any changes in this regard." Therefore, it is not an accurate finding. Or lies to the Commissioner of the European Commission. Something's wrong. Who do we trust now? We trust them to warn you that you must change or trust you, and they say they are not in any word. Here, I have the original letter. That argument does not stand as a leak of time but you did it, I repeat, the public should know, it was made as part of a political agreement within the ruling coalition which is legal again and probably the then former first prime minister of the government wanting to do something good for the northwestern county, I don't blame it at all, insisted that it change. But the change should have gone in that direction, it would have been and again I am talking about all these districts better if neither they nor Slavonia nor Baranja were left in the same statistical region with the City of Zagreb and that you have made five regions the way you have thought and said that this is the only common sense that says Mrs Pusic to be 5 regions. You said the primary goal was to reduce the differences. Well, you see, no, you didn't say that the primary goal for as long as possible is to extract funds under the most favourable conditions. The most territory, the longer you pull out. Now, look, now, I'm going to quote you the Lisbon Treaty of December 13, 2007. In this way, says Article 174, I quote: "In order to promote its overall coherent development, the Union develops and implements its actions leading to strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. The Union shall, in particular, seek to reduce inequalities between the developmental levels of different regions and the region's backlog in the most unfavourable situation. These regions pay particular attention to rural areas, areas subject to industrial transition and regions exposed to serious and lasting natural or demographic difficulties." In Article 175, point (a) is replaced by the following: The Union shall support the achievement of these objectives by means of action carried out through the EBRD Structural Funds and other financial instruments. Not a word, this is a quote from two very important articles of the Lisbon Treaty that talk about EU funds. There is not a single word that the aim of using EU funds is to make the most of the territory of a country use these funds on the most favourable conditions for as long as possible. No, that's not true. This is not the basic purpose of EU funds. The main purpose of the EU funds is to reduce regional development gaps in each EU member state. It is a definition, cohesion policy through its main instruments, structural funds and cohesion funds. So, I'm saying it on purpose because it doesn't stand what you said. So now it doesn't say that time is a leak, it doesn't say that the primary goal is the one you said because it's not, it says in the Lisbon Treaty, it's still worth the Lisbon Treaty. It is the EU Constitution. And you're saying something quite third that doesn't say in the Constitution. You mentioned the question, don't understand what project from Slavonia and Baranja will now be in a different position than it was. We're not talking about why it's wrong to divide into two regions, but we're talking about that, so understandably, you don't need to be particularly smart from Slavonia and Baranja as well as from northwestern Croatia before running up to 75 meters when we start at 64m than we're going to run from 40 to 75m. And the money's waiting for us. Do you know how much money will be left untapped by the wrong decision? This is the wrong decision. Furthermore, you said the strategy exists. There is but a valid strategy and valid divisions are not harmonised, and the basic prerequisite is the consistency of the strategic document and therefore our nomenclature of spatial units for statistics. We now have a still valid strategy that you are not under pressure, I stress again the EU, but under pressure within the ruling coalition you did and you could have done it, I would have been pleased that you made five regions as you promised. You have a strategy for regional development of the Republic of Croatia that says that we have three NUTS 2 levels, and you have a decision from the State Statistics Institute that you submitted to Brussels to have two. You don't have a harmonised document. And I say, you asked the question, which would bother Slavonia and Baranja not to lose anything. And what would bother you if you made five regions? We'd have the same conditions because we're behind as we are, we wouldn't lose anything, right? And this is how we are, we wouldn't be able to use the most advantageous means anyway. Because even when we cross together by being pulled by Zagreb 75%, and for us there are no more funds co-financed by 85%, but at 60 or maybe 52, God has given the shaved 50, but neither we nor our grandchildren are likely to experience it, but at least we do our best to make sure that our children and grandchildren draw funds from the EU, that is ultimately our goal. And I'll just end up saying, when there's been a speech, I'll repeat what I've already said, cohesion policy, cohesion fund and structural funds. So this multi-annual financial framework in 2014 and 2020 envisions not 336 for cohesion policy, but 330, 376 either if it doesn't decrease because those 40 billion euros are prepared for that new fund, because so the future one that should, I don't know, traffic, energy and telecommunications, is that so 40 billion. But of those who are direct support, these 336 if they don't cut 68.8%. So 48% through those two structural, and 20.4% through the cohesion fund is intended, so almost 70% intended for the weaker, least developed regions across the EU. And that 70% is not the same as whether to use those who are truly underdeveloped or to be used by those who are developed. And I don't mind, let Zagreb use money, it has the right to money, it won't have as many projects as it can draw, but not those funds that the EU didn't provide for it, it predicted. The fact that Zagreb is in such a position today is not the fault of Slavonia and Baranja, which is more developed 3.4 times than others, is not our fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30342	Here, thank you very much. Before I give my word to the government's representative, I'd just like to draw attention to all those very interested 20 parliamentary deputies who are still here that we still have a safe hour, an hour and a half of this point, and then we've got the next point, just so you know, we're gonna stay here for a considerable long time. But here I would now like to give a word to the government's representative, the respected doctor, Jakshi Puljiz, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and the EU Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30343	counterpart Buric said nothing would be lost by dividing into 5 regions for Slavonia, but for some part of Croatia, that's the difference, that's the difference. The difference is what someone in Croatia would lose. Well, look, when we did, I started working on this issue in 2003 when the first NUC commission was established within the State Statistics Office. Our first proposal was Croatia with 5 regions, but could not, could not meet the criteria with the criteria the EU itself defined, could not pass. So we went to variants that are feasible, we can't talk about variants that aren't feasible. And in all other variants that you have from 4 regions and from 3 regions, and from 2 regions of this region, this division with 2 regions only guarantees that the entire territory of Croatia will use funds under the most favourable conditions as an area of objective 1, as a less developed area. We've done these simulations, and there are no secrets. And again, unfortunately, the time was as it was, we broke down the European Commission by June, so that they would open the door for us in June and say listen, it was possible by June it was, it can't, it's late, it's not possible, how we're going to do it. Because it's writing, it's a matter of procedure, it takes very skilled lawyers to carry out such things. In June we came to a joint agreement that is still possible and in July it was formalized. So much for procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30344	Thank you very much. We also have one replica of the respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30345	Sir, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, I really appreciate you and I've read a lot of what you are, not just that and what your implementations have been. But don't say anything you don't believe in. Look, you're saying that by dividing into five regions, you'd lose Croatia and you wouldn't lose Slavonia and Baranja. Well, that's not true, the Republic of Croatia, for it is determined so many and so many EU funds, whether it's divided into 1 region or 5 regions, it's going to get 9, 956 billion euros, the 13.7 that's said is the total, but 10 billion is a circus for funds. This is intended for Croatia if there is no reduction. With 1 and 5 regions, only out of those 10 billion 70% of 7 billion are foreseen for the most underdeveloped regions. Because you understand? You can't convince me or anyone to lose Croatia, you wouldn't lose, it has the right to withdraw as much as it has, nor can it anymore, it can only be less. And as for this in June, it would be good if they agreed, you in the government with yourselves, then it would be written as it is. In this report of yours, you said the leak time, now you say in June we begged them, we begged them until June. And in that report of yours, you wrote that in July, the deadline expired, so you wrote, the deadline to which it could have changed, and now you say that July wasn't a deadline, but we begged it to change, so you said. If you had gone to pray by June, do not engage in anything, Croatia would not have lost to divide into 5 regions, while northwestern Croatia, Slavonia and Baranja would have gotten more and more underdeveloped regions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30346	Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30347	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll say it right away, the Irish and the Portuguese have come to their senses. We'll be out of our minds in seven years. That comes out of all of this today. There are several important moments in here, and I'm going to try not to repeat what the promoter mentioned but several important moments and in the analysis itself. Changes therefore to this division of the Republic of Croatia to 2 statistical regions and to the analysis of the consequences of this division at the moment and in the future. Not only for Slavonia and Baranja, but for all of Croatia. So this national classification. I am now pleased to hear that there were some deadlines, that we were squeezed by the European Commission, that we even prayed on our knees and that practically that letter sent by the European Commission to the Mayor of Osijek-Baranja County. Obviously, you're not responding to the truth. I wouldn't say that letter wasn't true. In this letter, first of all, it says that it was not a condition of the European Commission but a wish I would say perhaps not of the entire government, perhaps not of the entire Kukuriku coalition, but of the wish above all, and I would say the pressure. Not even the HNS, but then the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia who is aware. He is not a politician who does not understand politics or is not a bad mathematician that he does not know how to calculate and that he does not know how to defend the interest that he represented as the mayor of the Varazdin County when he said among other things that it is the long-term merger of the Varazdin County, northwestern Croatia with the city of Zagreb that can be NUC 2 regions. Could be. Look regardless of the decision, regardless of defending this thesis may be a region and may withdraw funds from European funds not in this relationship and the percentage for undeveloped regions of the Republic of Croatia especially for Slavonia and Baranja. That it is therefore a long-term strategic sacrifice of northern Croatia but also damage to all of Croatia. So this is the moment when the HDZ government has divided into three statistical regions and that it is a 100% political decision and it has nothing to do with the profession. And normally by adding up our 40s or there's a series of data maybe 38, 42% in Slavonia and Baranja with this Zagreb, we're coming with Varazdinian, overnight we've come to a 64% development. Many residents of Slavonia and Baranja and even northwestern Croatia did not know that over the night they reached 64% of gross national income in the EU. The second key moment that is happening but it may not be an accident because it is difficult to explain and even to voters who voted for the Kukurik coalition that, among other things, the VAT will be reduced but in this plan 21 therefore 23. November 2011 In its pre-election programme, the Kukuriku coalition said among other things: "The framework in the new EU financial perspectives will ask for an agreement with the EU on a new reconstruction of the statistical regions in Croatia from the current 3 to 5 to fully ensure the conditions for balanced and rapid regional development based on the use of EU funds." We will continue to decentralise how this proudly sounds in this plan, as well as all other decentralisation laws that are being implemented here and on decentralisation itself in the Republic of Croatia, the management of regional programmes by transferring the management of operational programmes for regional competitiveness to NUC 2 regional level. None of this is what was written and even that Croatian Government programme was achieved, but we received overnight division into two statistical regions. I remind you and you know very well that the whole strategy for the use of European funds is not to get angry with anyone who comes from that Adriatic part of Croatia. I am not surprised if Minister Grcic is from those parts and that nothing important needs to be changed in that strategy because the region has not changed. This region has changed where you have merged the most lagging region of Croatia with the city of Zagreb. And then you expect someone who can collect to accept it as a fact, to say it, it's extraordinary, it's good, and that we've become extremely rich here overnight. Not to mention that this division into the statistical regions of Croatia is a strategic division that determines the future of the Republic of Croatia to sit here. That the parliamentary representatives elected by Croatian citizens, Croatian voters, are sitting here to discuss the strategic division, a strategic document that is not related to the past of Croatia, but is related to the future for the greater withdrawal of funds from the EU. It takes place now after the battle, but after the battle things can change for the better. Is this a lost battle? It's for Slavonia, it's for most of Croatia. No one has anything against Zagreb, no one has against any region in Croatia, especially us from Slavonia and Baranja. We want us all to become what Buric is likely to experience for our grandchildren, but as politics is being conducted in this Croatia, I do not believe that grandchildren will live better in Croatia. This Croatian Parliament, therefore, which is elected, is the government that springs from this House. It's not the Parliament from the government, it's the government from the Parliament. Well, the Prime Minister himself said that we are colleagues, that he will address us as colleagues not as half-worlders as the first vice president of the government as those who do nothing, who do nothing, who do not know what European funds are, who do not know what is the statistical division of Croatia and what is administrative. Well, we know, we know very well, so it's Osijek-Baranja County, and there's the city of Đakovo and the city of Osijek, etc. to withdraw the most funds in the Republic of Croatia from EU pre-accession funds, the most. So I wonder what kind of half-world we are, what are we? Are we maniacs? When we know this job and pull it back, we even have a Brussels office. Hereafter and for so many years, the Croatian government will not live in rented areas but will realize that it is necessary to have it there. So, not to mention the public debate that should have been conducted. Well, look how much we're law, Mr. Deputy Minister, if you know almost 75% of the law has been passed by an emergency procedure in this House. So after a debate marked by the PZE, and this division also needed a similar and even more important than the European law. A debate is being held on Thursday, documents are being passed, laws are being passed on the table of MPs, the debate may end at half two on Friday night is the vote and we pass the law. to the side and the opinion of the Constitutional Court and you say that time was leaking. Time may be leaking to this government because it's doing bad. But the debate in the Croatian Parliament had to be, it had to be a public debate, you had to include both scientists and local and regional self-government. You didn't turn it on. I will not say I said it in the replica, I have followed what has been happening in the near past and I know that there is also Minister Greek and Vice-President of the Government who has advocated the division of several Croatian regions, not these two. With the same gleam, so are you, with the same eloquence only with different arguments. Because one who can sum up this can simply add up to 40% of the development of Slavonia and 125% of Zagreb, get 64% and practically get close to the developed standards of Europe, you can't explain it to anyone in particular, not to those who come from Slavonia, think with their own head, agree with their own opinion, although there are representatives who know what it is but who cannot agree with their own opinion. And for this reason it may have been precisely those days that they had to defend MPs from Slavonia against regional representatives. I'll say another quote, and now here is the chairman of the National Committee for the Monitoring of the Croatian and EU Negotiations, Mrs Vesna Pusic, and then the president of the SDP wanted to be the chairman of the committee but failed to agree. "Although we negotiated," so it's a quote "three statistical regions are agreed that they can change after the census this year. The only condition that they can't be more than five. The division into five regions is more logical and closer to common sense because it allows as many regions as possible to withdraw money." That was 2011. "The Time of Mores." So I think Mrs Pusic is still sticking to this statement of hers that it's really more logical that a better division is in five regions than these two. Perhaps another argument because Croatia is different, Croatia is not only different by people's costumes, by its wealth of the region. Croatia also differs in its distribution to rich and poor Croatia. For example. I don't know if you know that the purchasing power of the population per capita is, not to mention GDP, but purchasing power in Istria and Zagreb from 16 to 17 thousand euros, in a little less than 8 to 9, in Slavonia and Baranja from 3 to 4 thousand euros, and we can't be the same. And this division, I'm going to end here, this division into two statistical regions will allow richer ones to become richer, so that these most residual, poorest ones remain the most lagging part of Croatia and that they will need one light year or one warp in Enterprise from Star Trek to reach developed parts of Croatia. They will not be helped by Captain Kirk or Mr Spock, and the Croatian government should know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30348	Thank you very much. Here's your presentation caused one replica, and that's her distinguished representative, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30349	I'm only replicating because, here's why I've been going through some more of these documents, and I've been moved by what the deputy minister said before, and here's my colleague Vinkovic once again pointed to the fact that there's a huge pressure to make this change. We first had a statement that under the pressure of the European Commission it was done, when we received a letter from the European Commission's cabinet of Commissioners in which I say the Commission has nothing to do with it, then we get a report on our impelation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia saying that the European Commission itself during the discussions on the new division, and on the other hand, it says in cooperation with the European Commission that it was done. So first we had the pressure, then the partner co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission to change statistical regions, and now we hear here from the Deputy Minister that there was neither of them but that we asked the European Commission to allow us and that we flew into the last car, to allow us to make changes, and that is a good thing that you asked here to do something for Croatia. But if you'd asked to do what you promised, divide into five regions, then we'd be the first to say good-bye, congratulations, and this is not how we can do it. And something's wrong, Mr. Deputy Minister, right away at the 8th month, the government response was...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30350	You're replicating the esteemed representative Vinkovic, I'm just drawing attention to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30351	Yeah, yeah, okay. First you had pressure, then we had cooperation, now we have... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30352	I'm drawing attention to... Well, here's the answer to your line, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30353	Good fellow Buric, replicating to me what is perfectly normal and the government as well as the assistant minister. So I'll just remind you of another detail. If you remember fellow MPs, somehow with this division into two statistical regions comes to us the Law on investment of small and medium enterprises, on the development strategy in charge of the interpretation of this law were then the first Deputy Prime Minister Radimir Cacic, and that law states that this law was made on the basis of the division of three statistical regions. So that was after that current hour when we were called half-world, when we were called ignorants, to start working, to stop blasphemy, etc. This speaks enough of one complete unpreparedness, as well as the long-term consequences, not only for Slavonia and Baranja but for all of Croatia. And no one has anything against Zagreb, Zagreb can be a NUC region and can withdraw funds from European funds, not to mention a completely centralised procedure that is there and that if you enter one project into a particular European fund you will hardly enter with another, whether there are more projects or not, but also have to meet certain criteria that are more related to similarity than to the projects themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30354	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, we will be approached by a distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30355	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister. I expected that given that the government's written opinion on this impelation would have long been used by the Government for this debate today in a completely different way than the Deputy Minister did. I expected that as arguments that nothing should be changed now and that it must remain as a report, as a document, as an argument on the increased administrative capacity that these two valid regions now have and the progress that has been made since they have made the change. The report is information to the Croatian Parliament on the role of the state in education and in helping to learn how to write these projects in order to, as well as counterpart Shuker warned that if you do not know how to write, you cannot count on money. So what has been done and how much simpler it will be now, more exploited when only two regions are, that the government will give it, for example, a list of projects that are already completed or in the final phase with which we can now compete in these two statistical regions. Why would I expect that? I quote a sentence from the Government programme submitted to the Croatian Parliament when it was voted on the government's trust. Based on the example of many EU member states, we will decentralised the management of regional operational programmes by transferring the management of operational programmes for regional competitiveness to the NUC2 regional level. Since 2012, we will intensively strengthen the capacity of regional government levels to be ready to take over the management of operational programmes for regional development. When I get a report on what has been done about this goal, the government is a very important thing. This is also important information for the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public that we have done so far in achieving this goal that the government has set for itself. And then maybe there wouldn't be bidding, speculation. Maybe then we'd all be better informed, smarter. But giving information to the Croatian Parliament by the Government is an unknown concept. You can only cause this by interpelling and by no means different. There are even opportunities for you to conclude the government that, but then you have to get most of the votes in the Parliament, which is almost impossible. And it is this avoidance of information and the submission of information to the Parliament that leads to a situation of mistrust, the feeling that the government is superior to the Parliament and the situation of feeling why we are even discussing all this. I mean, the way it occurred to you, they're asking us if you're even discussing it. This is the relationship between the executive and the Croatian Parliament. It was said that by June, it took the European Commission's efforts by Croatia to accept a change from three to two statistical regions. And then in June, it was quickly implemented because July was the last month. Very good. So how come the public knew nothing about this from the beginning of the proposal? I have many opportunities to see other EU members when they have such or similar things to strengthen both the negotiating positions and create the atmosphere of the Government opens that debate in Parliament, in public, especially the professional public. Here it all happened practically without any debate, any hints, any information. For example, we could get information about this and that's why the government is changing the position these same parties have been defending for 4, 5 years, and we're not going to have 3 more regions of how much HDZ has brought, or the 5 that we've advocated all along than two. It's all gone, it's all gone. In addition to gross social product as a criterion from where, from which starting positions the region starts to arrive or cross the magical limit 75% I will present you the data of the state of diversity of Croatia with the basis of the State Audit Office's data based on the budgets processed for 2011. All municipalities, all cities and all counties together had budgets in 2011 of 21 billion 919 million kuna. Out of that 21 billion tax revenues were only 11 billion and 311 million kuna. When we talk about the ability to submit programs and candidates, then these data are very important, but that's not all. Based on the results of the 2011 census, I have recalculated these 21 billion per capita with how much money that the county including all cities and all municipalities had, and 2011. Zagreb County 4159 kuna per year per capita. Krapina-Zagorska try these counties on the map of Croatia to lie next to each other how I will read it. Krapina-Zagorska 2956 Kuna, Sisak-Moslavinačka 4224 Kuna, Karlovčka 3836, Varazdinska 3497, Koprivnica-križevačka 4078, Bjelovarsko-bilogorska 3157, Primorje-goranska 6804, Ličko-senjska 5739, Virovitičko-podravska 3443, Požeško-Slavonska 3120, Brodsko-Posaviska 2897, Zadar 5663, Osijek-Baranja 3657, Sibenik-Kninska 4470, Vukovar-Srijemska 3201 Kuna, Split-Dalmatia 4724, Istria 7296, Dubrovnik-Neretvaska 6132, Međimurska 2908 and City Zagreb 8000. The average local community in Croatia per capita in 2011 had 5115 kuna in its budgets. And now on the geographical map of Croatia, line up the counties below that average or below 4800. And that's exactly what my colleague Buric kept stressing and saying. Only this information when you take it is visible why they are right to question the possibility of particularly participating with their own resources without the support of the state and of smart strategic behaviour is not in the same position. This green Croatia has for years been in a situation where income per capita, budget revenues are double the other parts of Zagreb in particular. And precisely because of this data, we think that the division into 5 statistical regions is fairer. And that Međimurje as well as northwestern Croatia would have a longer deadline to reach those 75% without the City of Zagreb. I simply don't understand how it's not clear to someone, that this is also about time distance, dynamics, or the possibility of all of it. And that's why we supported this interpretation, which is why we're going to vote for it because however justice is now that northwestern Croatia is satisfied with these criteria and requirements I've given you the information that this is not true. Because someone can't tell me that Međimurje with 2908 kunas of budget funds compared to Zagreb which has 8,000 kunas we are now equal, equal in a better position. The consequence of what are these numbers I've given you? Centralised countries, imposing as many obligations as possible on local and regional self-government and income cuts. And then we argue that I will return to the government's programme that since 2012, the capacity of regional levels will be strengthened. So where did they get the money from, from which they would finance it. Well, some counties are already barely working in a way to finance the cold drive, not to mention other obligations. If the government had come with a series of information, if it had come with a list of projects, if we had answered the question of how this strengthens administrative capacity, I might have believed that there was some prospect in all of this. But instead of such information and data, it is persistently claimed that what experts simulated is the best. I assure you that in Croatia you have institutes and experts who are able to write professional arguments and at the same time prove and prove that the division into five regions is the best in both four and three and two. They'll all argue and prove, it's just depending on the amount of money someone's gonna pay for such ordered expertise, study or analysis. Because the same people who first argued that we should have five later have professionally confirmed that the optimum is three and now they claim that the best solution is two regions. So much for the arguments they're dealing with that way. But it's interesting that the Parliament's opinion never mattered, never, not today. And what changed? Nothing. What's going to change? Very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30356	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30357	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar here seems to be coming from the worst to say counties because according to this calculation of yours, when you divided 21 billion kunas into all the incomes of all local and regional self-government units with population numbers, we got that number in Međimurje 2968 per capita, and in Brod-Posavia 2800. So we're really on the tail of events. But our government, as far as I know, and you said yourself, doesn't worry about the administrative capacity that should be to tell those who will be prepared for projects or prepare for projects and programmes to withdraw money from structural cohesion funds. But there is information secondly, namely, the central government will receive certain projects to say, and the development of these projects that have worked so far in some environments of well-developed regional development agencies will be, or the writing of projects will be entrusted, whether I compete or how private agencies that are already slowly emerging, and already it is time or to say "Prasocsors", so when projects are started, they will be able to see it slowly and the agencies from abroad will be able to write it. So, from next door, say state, Italy, Hungary, I don't know who. So there is also a conceptual reflection between units of regional self-government and central government, who should be and how to train, who are these people who could truly sovereignly, professionally write projects to withdraw funds from structural and cohesion funds. But when you were talking about these figures where we are, where Međimurska and Brodo-Posaviska in the last place and Slavonska County, I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30358	Thank you very much. The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30359	Yes, my colleague Grubisic, you're right. The Ship-Posavia County has indeed the least fiscal capacity, so not only when the total revenues of the budget are calculated, I was also looking at tax revenues quickly. Namely, all the municipalities, all the cities and your county together in 2011 bore taxes on only 170 million kunas and then was rich in Međimurje as Switzerland with 147 million kuna. These facts, these data, those starting positions that are at stake can be balanced, changed and how and as far as we're concerned, would be visible from this report that I asked for to be implemented by the Government programme and the sentence that I quoted. Part of the projects that Međimurje successfully implemented and made, thanks to public enterprises, not the fiscal capacities of municipalities and cities, it is very important to note. Because if it were based only on the possibility of fiscal capacity of the municipalities and cities of the county, there would be no money to pay the envelope, not to write the program.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30360	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30361	Thank you. Dear colleague Lesar, first of all, I would like to thank you for, and for supporting you and your club to have this debate in the Croatian Assembly through the interpretation at all take place today, regardless of what it is, after we have already been brought to an end, not almost but before the final act. But for the public word, it's never too late, and you've mentioned these statistics, they're fully consistent with that, with all indicators, and there are various ways, various models that are used to show the development of certain areas. The Honorable Deputy Minister knows it better than I do. However, it is simplest, and I fully agree with you most often applied, is that gross domestic product of 12 inhabitants. And they totally match what you said and about these total incomes of the individual... local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The smallest income has exactly the Brod-Posavia County, it is 8 100 euros compared to, and imagine the 4 last places are 4. Slavonian County. Virovitičko-podravska na 18, 19 Požeško-slavonska, Vukovar-Srijemska 20, Brod-Posaviska 21, last. The only one in the centre of the 11th ranking is Osijek-Baranja County with 11800 euros per capita. That's what worries us, and that's why someone's surprised when we say, and what you Slavonia and Baranja are complaining about, we don't want to change for the better, because we think we deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30362	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30363	A colleague Buric, from your proposal of the North-West Croatia region to look up to this standard. Because you proposed Međimurska, Varazdinska, Krapinsko-Zagorska, Zagrebačka, Koprivničko-križevačka and Bjelovarsko-bilogorska. So, "rich" Međimurje with 2 908, this richly of course under quotes, Krapina-Zagorska with 2956, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska with 3175, Varazdinska with 3487 and slightly richer Koprivnica-Cryser with 4078. These are just another set of arguments on your side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30364	And Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30365	Dear counterpart Lesar, these fiscal capacities of the county that you have spoken, from Međimurska 2 thousand and something, Zagreb 8 thousand, should also be read correctly so that you do not accidentally think that Zagreb is guilty, which is not true, it is wrong to mismanagement of the state. The government has pledged decentralisation, however, is increasingly working on centralisation of Croatia. These criticisms are certainly not addressed to the Zagrebers, but the authorities and these figures do not say that the Zagrebers live fantastically compared to the other inhabitants in Croatia. There's something entirely wrong, it's the government's fault that first doesn't care evenly about the development of the Republic of Croatia. What we also said the other day was quite certain that the place of the Ministry of Agriculture was not in Zagreb but in Osijek. And you said one claim that was absolutely correct, the Parliament's opinion, the government never mattered. It seems that this government will never matter because the government is always calling for one claim to be done, when it claims in expert opinions as if the representatives do not have an expert opinion, as if the representatives do not have advisers and that the representatives do not know but are only beginning to know when they enter the government. All these colleagues who are in government today were representatives in this Croatian Parliament and those who hurt their groin and those who didn't hurt their groin when they sat in the bench, when they were in the benches here knew nothing, when they came to the government now they know everything, and we don't know. I hope that's not how it's gonna be for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30366	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30367	Of course, the citizens of Zagreb are not to blame for this, the inequality which in Croatia is not particularly responsible, because it is due to the fact that taxes are being paid to the company headquarters and in Zagreb are registered companies with the most financial power but there is something good about these poor areas, you know Brodo-Posaviska, Međimurska, Krapinsko-Zagorska, this cannot happen that someone is building a public toilet for 15 thousand euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30368	On behalf of the national minority club Denesh Shaw. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30369	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I want to participate in this debate because I appreciate that the promoter has given a certain argument as well, and the Government has given a certain answer to it all together. However, I would like to emphasise one moment here. Many times words about the administrative and professional capacity of our local and other associations that should work to engage and obtain these funds. Two days ago, when we discussed the agricultural land law, it was then concluded that nearly 200 local self-governments were not ready to adopt their own programme. There is no colleague Vinkovic here to confirm or deny it. I am convinced that almost 30% and perhaps 40 or more percentages of local self-government are not ready at the moment, especially according to EU criteria to implement one more complex and largely, at the amount of large public procurement. It's a very big problem. So I think it's one moment we need to consider. On the other hand, if we do not make a significant step to obtain a building permit, that is, to confirm the main project within a few months and not two to three years, then public procurement, etc. I don't think many local self-governments will do much then and what Dr. Buric said, then that virtual money won't reach our areas. I must stress that I myself am in the area where this initiative encourages me to have 40 years of experience in the realisation of these investment programmes which infrastructure facilities of social standard and something in the economy and I can also say today I am working on it for my community and I am helping others, of course. Sometimes it's like solving this problem, paperwork as we say. It was 80% or 75-80% in our case in Beli Manastir, something small in Osijek, and it should have come to Zagreb. However, the situation is very different now, the development of events has forced more practically us in the White monastery to solve almost nothing, or very little, even though the permits there are issued, something in Osijek, and most of it is centralized, so it is solved in Zagreb. I accept it as an objective fact and circumstances and it should probably be. The only problem is that our rural environments are not yet up to that kind of communication and that they solve it on the Internet, etc. A day ago, I prayed the same way as my colleague Vinkovic and the Minister of Agriculture about centralization and for the delivery of these data to our farmers in order to encourage and everything else, and I received an answer that practically satisfied me that one day they too will not need to come to Osijek instead of Bela Manastir, but also they will solve it on the Internet. But I think there's going to be a lot of problems while one such climate is created, but please, it's an objective fact and we certainly shouldn't even be able to take a step back. For example, Baranja, I have to say that we have 55,000 acres of quality ornaments and over 35,000 acres of forest. As for agriculture and the involvement of certain means when it is modernized, this means to us only to reduce the number of jobs. Therefore, we must turn around and thank God I must say this and praise Agrokor and Belje who are looking for a way out in this respect, focus on service activities, territorial activities, because there are only opportunities to create new jobs and to develop various forms of tourism and to make large investments for labour-intense agricultural cultures. So now the bar is being set up with us, whether to invest in infrastructure facilities and social standards if we do not follow it parallelly with economic development because then we have one situation that out of 100, 150 households in one street is built both water and gas and sewerage, there are no 4 households that are able to join it. I therefore advocate that it absolutely invests in the economy in the creation of new jobs because I must say, unfortunately, one defeating data in the last month at the primary school in Darda, the number of students has been reduced by 18. Young people with children go to Canada and Australia, and I don't know where. So it is also a process that we can hardly stop but still have to be optimistic and work on making such problems as little as possible. I see the exit as I just pointed out earlier the investment of these funds in economic development because without it, I don't think we're writing well. Now, I'd like to talk to my colleague, Lesar, but I can see he's gone. He was saying something about Međimurje, and I could answer him now that once from Međimurje the people came by train without a timetable and came as seasons in Baranja, and now the situation is reversed. We would be happy and overjoyed by many indicators that we can measure against Međimur Baranja as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30370	Thank you very much. My colleague Shaw, this is Međimurje, not Medjugorje. Dinko Buric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30371	Dear colleague Shoja, I hope you agree with us when the vote comes. ... Well, okay, but don't come at least it's nice to hear you admit at least that we're right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But then alone when you raise your hand the opposite I don't know, then it's better if you don't say anything. First I wanted to replicate what you said administratively professionally when, no, we were not talking about three preconditions are prepared strategic documents to be used, prepared projects and adequate administrative capacity. But since you're coming from a neighborhood where we from the HDSSB club too, here might be a good question to point out once again, we were talking about what happened. With virtual money, no, they're waiting for us. We just have to do everything we can to get them. But here you can see on the portals what we have shown as a concern of how much Croatia will ultimately have at its disposal, today it is debated in Brussels. We see that Slovenia, for example, has been cut drastically from 4.3 billion to 2.7 billion or 8 of those 13.7 billion, which was foreseen for Croatia by those 9.9 all together from the cohesion fund 8.7 billion, has no data on how much it will be but if it is cut down by all of them and Germany, then it is certain that significant funds will be cut up and Croatia. I just hope we don't get into a situation where we end up with someone who's gonna be bigger than us. I think it will always be a little bit more approved but if we are unprepared for the withdrawal then we will pay dearly for becoming an EU member.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30372	Thank you very much. Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30373	Here's my dear colleague, Šolja, I keep Slavonia on my mind, and then I come out of shock, and it's nothing offensive. But listening to your speech I wish you'd put your signature on this request to this impelation and that would be much better. But I can agree in one that finally someone from the Club of National Minorities but also from this part who supports the work of the Kukuriku coalition and zealously raises his hand for all possible laws, I understand your position to understand, if you do not raise your hand he will probably not get any lip from or kuna from the state budget. It was done by HDZ with national minorities, the same parties and independent representatives who supported Sanader and Kosorica's government, and that's what we need to change. The only model that can change that is decentralisation. Decentralisation where you, as chief, will have more resources in that municipal budget of the Dukes of Vinogradas where you won't have to raise your hands here as a representative, you won't have to break the thresholds of the ministries and where you will be able to realise projects and where you may even have the funds for EU funds projects. It's one way out of this situation. This is how we're going to go for a long time not only to the Barans, but also to the Slavs to read asparagus in Germany. Not in Međimurje, Germany, to read asparagus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30374	The answer to Denesh Shaw's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30375	I would like to answer to you, my debate stressed that I am trying to see facts and the situation realistically and objectively, independently working on the Government from the left or on the right. So, it's my basic motto and at least I'm assuming that for a particular process that's been going on in society we've been for change, it's going on, there's no step back, we have to be optimistic and I'm not for it to be made at any cost by any revolution that would only cause greater damage. No matter who ruled I try to look real and objectively, that in the interest of both Baranja and Osijek-Slavon County and finally the entire Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30376	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Gold Komadin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30377	Dear Madam Vice President. Well, it seems to me that we've been actually discussing it all along, it doesn't seem to me, but it is, of course, about the key to spending the funds, and if it wasn't enough, and I have to admit that I would say a little critically to Mr. Deputy Minister, I think that he should have made it stronger not only him but rather in terms of public communication that if I heard it correctly, and I heard from Mr. Deputy that with this division, we would have a greater total location than we would have with such division. That's what you said from this pay phone. If that is true, there is no reason to doubt that it is true because it was probably the reason for this division, even if the additional argument for the reason for this division was that some projects in the City of Zagreb could also be financed. In my opinion, every logical state will make a division such that it can attract as much resources as possible and do of course all to fairly divide them by the rules of the game within its own house. First of all, she did it, and she doesn't need to go far away from Poland. Poland is a country that has withdrawn as much as 100 because it has also had a cross-border story. They withdrew absolutely everything they could, but the Poles set off in time, not the commercial HDZ government that hadn't prepared either the system or the people to prepare the projects or passed the rules of the game, nor prepared the project. We have what we have now, the only thing we have some projects of whatever someone says, we have about environmental protection and something through the water economy. We have no transport projects yet ready because it is not so easy or fast, we have something small, nothing spectacular, and the Poles have done that they have trained their dukes, that the clear rules of the game have told them how much they are doing for their projects, and how much they go through for national state projects. Then they divided each of their duchess into three parts, let's say our county just... the county we're too small, their dukes have a few million people. Then they divided into perspective, non-perspective and middle categories. Funding was carried out only in perspective and in this medium, and those who were found inoperable did not go without lip. In other words, about a message, you who are there chose to be there. So we have to be honest with ourselves, we can't do everything, we have to invest money where first and fastest it will give effect that will say that it creates a new value, a new social product. Now, I am also a supporter of the need to change the division as soon as the conditions for change are obtained, so after the first three years if Zagreb achieves that rate, and will achieve, it needs to come out of that division so that others can continue to use it until the final story. And the final story in Croatia that was initial was, now changed, but HDZ did not want to do it, was five regions, Zagreb and four regions, two continental and two Adriatic. Because people are afraid of us, and so do I, and I think your discussion, that the overall allocation will not be fairly shared unless the rules of the game are such as to say through statistical regions in advance. I'm deeply hoping, I have no reason to doubt that it shouldn't be like that. It is not fair, however, to draw money through one region or part of a region, and to spend it in another part of the region which, in itself, would not. And I think we should use the opportunity to share, I've said it all the time and I'll say it, of course and always, that we should still use the opportunity of statistical regions to also go through the new territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia because when you look from the plane you can see the City of Zagreb and four regions, from the plane. But of course you can't do it overnight, it means removing counties or collecting to say counties because you simply have to have more capacity, you have to create more space, more people because this larger number of people have more potential, have from the university center to simply having greater capacity for people to create both potential and also have resources greater than it has some small space by itself. So I think the arguments for this are if I followed this division well because now it's finally calculated to get more in the first three years and that it's going to change afterwards. There is another additional argument, that some joint projects that could be financed for the whole of Croatia could be very likely to need that space then in one whole such as. Let's put it that way or something. But the purpose of the European Union funds is not to do whatever it wants, the purpose of the European Union funds, they are also called cohesion funds, and why they are called cohesion funds, so that at least to raise the development of each part of Europe to that level of 75% of development, and in fact the purpose of that is, in my opinion and I think that it was European rules to prevent the migration of the population so that the population from developing regions will not go into developed countries, so that the undeveloped countries do not go from developing countries. It means that the population stays in its space wherever it can, where there's resources that it can be. So I say, it would be good to hear how much with this division of allocation is bigger, and then it would be fair if that difference of location was then used in the city of Zagreb, not more than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30378	Replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30379	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, first of all, there can be no difference in the location. Divided into two or five regions again, I am undermining for Croatia the funds are set in Brussels. How much, when we talk about allocation, it's allotted, so what we're going to have is as much use as possible. And we have one, two or five regions of Brussels will determine how much money is set for Croatia. However, how many statistical regions we will share with the Republic of Croatia and how we will prepare depends on how much of this money will eventually end in Croatia. I agree with you that there has been a lot in the past government that has mostly been taken care of to complete the negotiations, and it's okay. Many obstacles had to be overcome, it had to be acknowledged that it was difficult and a great deal had been done. However, when you say nothing has been done to prepare for this, for 14 months the current government has passed, and nothing has been done except that it is written here in this report that 120 million kunas have been provided to help anyone who will want to use these funds, and that is not enough to finance a single project. Here I told only one to help the campus of the University of Osijek, let alone for the entire Republic of Croatia. And you said it right. It's about dividing into statistical regions, it's about justice. It is the right word and I fully agree with you as I agree with you and with the fact that Croatia needs a new territorial reconstruction, but also real fiscal decentralisation...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30380	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30381	... precisely because, among other things, the preparation for the use of funds and the implementation of the use of funds formed by the Ministry of Regional Development as a roof institution. [[Specially enabled.]] The remaining escorts are in charge of some let's say thematic segments I don't know about traffic, the environment etc. So that structure should have been set up a long time ago. There have been certain agencies that have done something like this before, but no funds have been provided for staff or staff education, nor have these personnel been sufficiently created, nor have the rules of the game been agreed on from where and who and how they will finance the 15% needed by the local, local, or local component, and neither have they been said, I have to admit that until now I don't know how much national candidate they're going to be, and what will be locally run to say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30382	And Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30383	Thank you very much. My colleague Komadin and I agree with you in a good part, most of your debate, and you actually surprise me with positive thinking. In fact, you were talking about the idea that Europe is actually to keep the population, not to migrate from certain areas to some areas that are better. But migration has already happened. The policy of these governments, let me just tell you on the example of Brod-Posavina County, which is the fiscal worst county in Croatia, that we are in '91. In 2001, there were 188,000 inhabitants. 176, and now the 2011 Brod-Posavia County list found that it had 158,000. So in 10 years, 10% of the population has been lost. That's terrible. And you said well that we should, perhaps urgently think about the administrative reconstruction of Croatia. Because part of the territory, let's say 5 Slavonian counties really have many common and resources and interests that could then be much easier to exploit, therefore, to implement certain projects and programmes. Here's an example of a regional water pipeline in eastern Slavonia that's being conducted in the area of three counties, so what do you say, p stripes, bridges, etc. So there is, and in addition to that, we would certainly reduce, round that fiscal capacity of 5 counties, and thus, larger projects can also be realised and through cohesion and structural funds. This is indeed a dry need, not just a statistical division into five regions, but an administrative reconstruction that would reduce the number of these units as large as 550, is 550 units of local self-government and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30384	The answer to the replica of Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30385	Well, as far as I'm concerned, you're knocking on the open door. I wrote part of the Kukuriku coalition's programme for decentralisation. Secondly, I was president of the first county community and I stood up for it, I will always advocate decentralisation of Croatia. The decentralisation of Croatia is, in my opinion, a necessity for two reasons not only of justice, but of greater efficiency and use of the management of the resources that Croatia has because it is always closer to the space than to the management of this space, regardless of what someone will say that Croatia is not big. But reform can't go overnight. We are not ready for reform, because nothing has been done for reform so far. Denmark has been reforming for 7 years and then implemented and all reforms in Europe are reducing the number of administrative units, except the French have one specificity. But the French have a large number of municipalities because it's their tradition, but the question of their powers is a little different. However, all went after the reform to reduce the region's numbers, and an increase in the region as such, as well as self-government units. To put it simply, you can't have municipalities if you don't need a kindergarten or you don't have one. You can't have I don't know if you don't have a primary school. There can't be a region if there's no university. I think some things must be simple, but for 2017 it's too late we could most early implement a new structure in 2017 in local elections, we can't now. But objectively, if we're going to make a right to tell the arguments based on a reform I think it's 2021, the local election in 2021 by some regional model. Because with us there will be resistance from all the political structures because everyone loses their positions, etc., you know how it goes with us. Therefore, I think that this European story must also be used and used for a future regional story.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30386	Thank you very much. Time's up. Col. Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30387	Dear colleague Komadina, a reasonable speech, that is, the speech of reason, I didn't expect from you or anyone else, is perhaps the real face of the SDP that he is thinking. But there's no increase in funds here. So we are meant for a certain amount no matter how many of us have statistical regions. And we're not going to withdraw, the question is whether we're going to withdraw all those funds, whether we're all prepared to pull those funds together at all. Is the government prepared, if the ministry is prepared. We can't transfer everyone to local self-government units. Here's an example, you build a sewer-cleaner, you have to pay for the first project documentation that must be in line with the EU, that rare Slavonian cities can, the municipalities can't, because they have very small budgets. It must therefore comply with EU standards. After the call for tenders are selected etc., a building permit, a property-legal issue, a question of all laws that are possible. And what I don't understand is that we're withdrawing funds from the EU. On all these projects, the state collects a 25% VAT, Croatia's waters collect water contribution, and this increases investment perhaps once more or half increase investment. And now I'm going back to Slavonia and Baranja. So this division as a strategic division is not a matter of faith and hope. We have been hoping for 20 years that we will get out of that spot, and we are in the fungi not thanks to us but to the Croatian governments all by now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30388	Thank you. Replication response, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30389	Mr. Vinkovicu, I cannot assure you of your views, of course, but they go from pre-admiting that you will be deceived. I have no reason not to trust the government of the Republic of Croatia not only to this which is my party but also to the previous governments. The governments of the Republic of Croatia should work fairly in the interests of the people of the Republic of Croatia. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30390	No, you didn't get the word of a colleague, Vinkovic. ... You can hear yourself without a microphone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Jaksa Puljiz, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30391	Here's the esteemed representative, and I finally have to thank myself for this exhaustive debate. It was really long, there was a lot of hearing. I think it's always good when we are in the Assembly discussing EU funds. The last opportunity was with the report on the use of EU funds and then there were several laws on the use of EU funds. And what seems to me like this, now to say more informally that it would certainly be good for MPs to join together sometime with the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds. We are ready to give you much more detailed information on how projects are being prepared, how they are being financed, how funds are being spent so that you have even more complete information. To go back to today's main topic, I will present the irrefutable facts that are mentioned in the government's response to the interpretation itself. Croatia's division into two regions has made it easier for EU funds from northwestern Croatia to use these same funds since they have been able to benefit from the same initial conditions as all other areas of the Republic of Croatia. Had that not happened, if the government had not responded in this case, the users of northwestern Croatia would have had to provide an additional 300m euros in co-financing for the projects according to our budgets. And many of the areas mentioned in the presentation of counterpart Lesar about fiscal capacities are similar to those mentioned in the local budgets and relate to areas just in northwestern Croatia. So I believe that this is how we directly helped the applicants from these areas to report a number of projects and to implement a number of projects. Another important thing we have ensured is greater flexibility in reporting projects because the rules that limit project orientation to certain topics are now more relaxed, since all regions are marked as the weakest regions. And for the weakest regions according to the new cohesion policy regulation, a wider selection of areas in which EU funds can be channelled is allowed. As far as the City of Zagreb is concerned, it is no doubt that the involvement of the City of Zagreb increases the total absurd capacity. Why does it matter to us? It is important for us because we know that the experience of Member States, above all new member states, shows that the use of EU funds is initially linked to a weaker absorption. And in this sense, it is certain that Croatia will, unfortunately, not use all available funds, but a smaller amount of them. And for this reason, I repeat what has already been said so many times by the government, here it is not a question that someone will remain suspended for some EU funds, the only question here is whether Croatia will have enough prepared projects and capacities to implement them. And with this change we have made possible, we have increased that capacity because now we need less co-financing for a large part of the users, it is about the area where 1,800 thousand inhabitants live. I The City of Zagreb can certainly make this significant contribution, especially in some specific areas where these strategic projects in the City of Zagreb are important for all of Croatia, I am talking primarily about the field of research and development. However, the Croatian government will continue to pay attention to where EU funds in the Croatian area are ending, which areas are being directed. And I think that's what was the point of most of the exposure, so fear, fear that these funds will end up in the wrong hands, that is, in the hands of more developed areas at the expense of less developed areas. But I repeat, the Croatian government has very strong instruments to ensure that the funds are directed towards the most needed. And if, for example, Slavonian regions have 85% of the EU funds provided, the Croatian government can decide to provide additional 5% of the funding from the state budget, that's exactly what we're doing right now. So what we're doing now is we're doing a financial model to define the rules of the game and ensure that there are also available credit funds, very favourable interest rates both for the private sector and for the part of the public sector. Of course you're expecting both engagements and local units. What we will not allow is to run local investment policies in a way that saves local resources to implement some projects that are not co-financed by EU funds, which could be. And that's the point of the whole co-financing story. So, I would really like to focus on the issue of project preparation, this issue will be cut off by someone using EU funds is an unnecessary issue. When we talk about allocation at the level of the Republic of Croatia, it is a certain so-called The capping rule, therefore, is one rule where the EU determines how much a country can receive the funds, and this is now independent of the division of statistical regions, and for Croatia it is worth the capping. It amounts to 2.36% of gross domestic product per year, so the maximum annual transfer we can get must not interfere with 2.36%, but the question of where will these funds within Croatia end is our question. And the big gain that was made with this change, let's not forget, let's not let it out of sight is the share of co-financing for users from the northwestern Croatia area. And whatever division you will always have, some part of Croatia that will not be able to be categorized as the weakest area in the next 14 years, and that part of Croatia will then have to single out more of its own sources and that is the loss, some will be abolished. So I say that if we make a different division, someone will be cut off in Croatia, whether it's someone in Međimurje or someone in the City of Zagreb, we can discuss it, but someone will have to provide additional funds, here. I thank you for your attention and for your exposure, and it was really interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30392	Thank you. Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30393	Dear colleagues, you yourself said that you were satisfied, here is such a big debate, I would have been even more pleased if we had had this debate in the Croatian Parliament before that request for Brussels that we have two statistical regions in Croatia. Then perhaps a broader scientific debate, not just a parliamentary debate, would lead to perhaps other solutions. Maybe there wouldn't be that much pressure, then the former Deputy Prime Minister, etc. etc. And it's not true that no other model would have left any other region. Try to calculate this data here, not only the population number, but also the gross national income of this division that we have proposed in 5 statistical regions enables practically equal development of the entire Croatia. You said it yourself and I'll end it and the Portuguese, the Irish came to their senses after three years, we'll be there after seven years. And in those 7 years Slavonia and Baranja will become more and more undeveloped parts of Croatia, more and more lagging behind these most developed parts of Croatia and that is the fact, it is mathematical logic, there is no other logic, mathematical. Because if you're sharing your 20 share and you have to share it with someone else, you're going to stay at 2 or 3, because this richer one, the stronger one, is going to take not half, maybe take everything from you. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30394	And the Golden Commander's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30395	I may have misheard, I probably misheard, but now you've said Mr. Pouliz that the alocation is the same unrelated to territorial division, right? So the only savings from the way we divide Croatia is that we're going to have to give less domestic funds because of this division because otherwise we're going to have to give 40%, not 15, right? That would be nature, and that's about 300 million, which is also worth, which is also good. That which is also good, not but the whole region in which it belongs, I don't suppose. And that Mr. Pugliz can explain. And it's good to have savings in our own participation, I'm just saying when it's exhausted then it needs to change the structure. It's supposed to change the structure after three years. And it's a good thing you can apply a wider number of types of projects. There's only one thing I disagree with, or I still don't understand as well as possible, it's hardly that we can all understand everything. For the home component, I don't know who thinks local self-government has any money for the home component. I also told the previous HDZ government that for serious projects I especially suppose for state projects we should call it so, of national importance. I guess the state will provide a home component, but also for some large county projects that the county with current fiscal capacity have money for the domestic component. and this must not be a limiting factor in project placement but must be made clear rules of the game to secure funds for that home component. I mean, I speak from my own experience. One of the largest EU-funded projects in the pre-accession phase is the project of a central waste management zone in the Primorje-Goran County of 2m euros and 25m euros, which the county has tore apart to find its component.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30396	Replication response, Deputy Minister Jaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30397	As far as funding is concerned, data from the Ministry of Finance for Local Budgets say that we have approximately 2 billion kunas each year without the city of Zagreb in something called non-financial assets or investments. So surely, among these two billion kunas at local level, there is good potential for co-financing of the EU project as well. Of course it won't be enough, and that's why we are currently working with the Ministry of Finance to ensure all possible additional resources in the loan work and in part from the state budget, but that local self-government will have to participate in co-financing of EU projects, it is certainly just not all the same and not all of them according to the same rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30398	And the closing word on behalf of the proposer. A colleague of Dinko Buric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30399	Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, in connection with your replica, Mr. Komadina, you have understood the allocated or available funds that are intended for Croatia are defined and cannot be different. This is not dependent on Croatia, but the division of regions is something that is in the jurisdiction of statistical regions, which is in the authority of the state and of this division can depend on, in a way, on the preparedness of how much money we will ultimately withdraw. I would also like to thank everyone who participated in the debate at the end of this several-hour debate, no matter how many of us are left here. It's still a public voice. We're not talking about what we're thinking here. We are the only ones who are thinking, but we are also representing the opinions of the citizens in the area from which we come. I also thank Mr. Deputy Minister for his patience. I would also like to have a reasoned discussion, but I would love it if, in the end, this debate of ours would not end only in the way that it usually ends. We discussed, locked or entered it, but that's where it came out, but that you at least transfer some of these arguments and consider within your ministry and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I think you could hear really well-intentioned and reasoned remarks about this division. When it comes to 300m euros, how much did you say it was saving by dividing it into two statistical regions in the Republic of Croatia that were assisted by northwestern Croatia? I agree with the need to save and help every region, especially one that is underdeveloped. Is northwestern Croatia without the city of Zagreb by that old division in three, there you were right Mr. Komadina has crossed 75% of the development. I think it was 78.3 if I'm not mistaken. And that it would be worth the rule that it must, or that it could be the other region, the region in transition, so that it could expect maximum co-financing up to 60%. And it's good to change that for those who are underdeveloped. But we're going to ask a logical question again. If you helped the whole country and these counties by changing the situation from 3 statistical regions to 300 million euros. Tell me if you'd made the same savings if you'd made five regions. The savings would've stayed. Northwest Croatia would not have to and would remain at 50.2% instead of 78.3%. The only one who would have to pay more of that is the city of Zagreb. But it's a situation today. I again underline on behalf of all the promoters not only the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, all the promoters and I believe in the name of all those who supported this proposal, we have nothing against the city of Zagreb and the possibility of it developing. This and the EU predicts that there are three types of these funds is one for the most underdeveloped, one for the middle ones, but at the same time it is the so-called one. If I'm not wrong about catching up or what it's called, then the obligation to help the underdeveloped must not prevent further development and those who are more developed at that point. But if you had divided into 5 regions, now look what you would have done, you would have charged northwestern Croatia great, you would have put them in a better position than you have now, by adding Slavonia and Baranja to them because they would have been 50.2 and they would have run up to 75 longer and more money. They wouldn't harm Slavonia and Baranja like they did because you've raised us to 64% of the last data here now that it's 61%. It was probably old saying it was for 2011. 61 if you don't cheat on statistical indicators. And on the third hand, so they would help the northwest, they would not harm Slavonia and Baranja. And you know who you'd be helping by dividing into five other regions? Dalmatia. Yes, you should also consider the division of the Adriatic Croatia into two regions because there I will remind you of the 4 Dalmatian counties of Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska, Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva County are along with the Istrian and Primorje-Gorski County, well and with Licko-Senj County, Istria County and the Primorje-Gorland County along with the City of Zagreb the most developed regions. If they were a single region, we were counting, we were doing a simulation, if they were a single region of Istria, Primorje-Gorski and Ličko-Senj County would not help them, because because of Ličko-Senj County these are 70 these 76, these are below, and they would probably come here on the edge, and Dalmatian counties these 4 of them are GDP I'm talking about simulations of Dubrovnik-Neretva ide she has 14500 euros, but Zadar 12200, Split-Dalmatia 11500 and the Sibenik-Knin County is 16. by development in Croatia according to these indicators with 10500 euros of GDP per capita. In theory, you could think about it. If it weren't for 5, we wouldn't have hurt if you'd done 4 of the same savings, they would have done no harm to Slavonia and Baranja for northwestern Croatia. But the question arises, and Mr. Komadin, you really had it as if you were from the ranks of the opposition, you spoke honestly and reasonably, so when you asked a question and from where, in any case, domestic sources for it, either from municipal, city, county or state-level funds to co-finance our share. Heard there's only 120 million kuna drop in a sea of necessary funds. You know what the solution will be? Mr. Deputy Minister was representing Croatia's new division into two statistical regions, he was also in Osijek last fall. I closely followed his lecture and presentation at the Hotel Osijek and there I asked him a question, and I'm going to ask him here right now. They'll be asked, and you say it's not true, probably as a source of credit funds, and then it wasn't denied when you got the question of one of the listeners in one local self-government unit, that you said it was even the bank's representative, I think from HYPO, you said that since we don't have the money or the municipalities or cities that those 15% of the participations we have to provide so that the state will make sure that the municipalities, cities, counties can raise credit. Who's going to make money at the end? It's just banks. Why? We asked one logical question if you remember, I asked you and what about the interest on that loan if you raise a 100 million kuna loan, will it be included in that 15% and interest you'll have to pay on that? You honestly told me not to. Well, now is that a 15 or 25% participation or is that a participation with so much percent plus interest? Eventually, they're gonna lose who? We will not get as much money from the EU as we should have received from us than we will get less, less, for the interest we will have to pay the bank. Perfect game. Who are the bank owners? Yeah, it's not the Croatian state, it's the ones who give us money from the EU. And that's why it's no wonder we've had opportunities not long ago to read how Germany boasted that every euro invested in Hungary gets back $1.25. They don't give us money because they love us, but we don't have to be stupid either, and what they're letting us do is let us forgive the balls under our kidneys. It doesn't work that way, no. So the danger is, if that's how we seek a solution to our co-financing of projects, then that's the wrong way, Mr. Deputy Minister, and we're trying to point it out, and we haven't got any other explanations. I'm gonna ask you one more question right now. The whole time we talked about it, here's 1.7 is at the door, Croatia for the second half of this year from these European Union funds will have the right to withdraw about 450m euros, as planned, 449. And now I'm asking a question, so there aren't any misunderstandings later, let's see why you didn't take advantage of any of the projects at the end of 31.12. You say wait and you didn't take advantage of it, excuse me, you haven't used any of the projects, but we're pointing the project and we have the project but we don't have the money, and you haven't provided us with any, and we don't have enough for any of the projects. It is not just Slavonia and Baranja, we are now saying whether you have considered in the Government of the Republic of Croatia whether you have prepared projects and secured funds for, it is the responsibility of the state to manage care and to force municipalities and cities and counties to work projects, and you to help them secure the funds that 31.12.2013. we do not come to the situation that we are here in the Croatian Parliament to discuss in a way that we have not withdrawn 100 thousand euros, not 449 million. And I, from everything so far said by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not only today, Mr. Deputy Minister, but also what you said when we talked about using funds, we're talking about the past, and we don't think about what's at the door, right under our noses. 449 million euros we have to spend until 31.12.2002 if we want to use what belongs to us. But I'm afraid of something else, not that we're not going to use 449, that's so clear, we're not going to spend any of those 260 or how much we're going to have to pay for membership fees in the last six months. It will be tragic for the whole country, for every municipality, not just for Slavonia and Baranja. There is something called challenges for Croatia and it says so. Although the Croatian administration is but that's from one consultation, it has already prepared draft programmes on the basis of which we should receive funding in 2012, 2013, there is a big job ahead of us in defining strategic priorities and objectives through programmes for 2014-2020. It is now necessary to decide what we want to invest in over the next 10 years, how this coincides with our national development planning and how we will consistently implement it by co-financing of EU projects, whether financing our own investment projects. That's what I'm talking about, no projects. We say we have them, we have an idea, you said they were just ideas, at least we have ideas. At various stages we have much further than ideas but we don't have money, and you don't make it easy for us to do it. We will never have them, not us but many, the vast majority of the regions in the Republic of Croatia because there are no 2 billion as far as you said that, it is 260, 270 million euros in total for all investments that investment, and we expect a billion and some of this. If we just gave it all up for it, that would be 20% somewhere, right? ... Yeah, well, if it were 15% of everything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not all 85%... Well, it's not all, it's true, but it's not all about 85% co-financing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It'll be a good part of funding at 75%, but some and 30%, but it's not just meant for it, it's projects that started at local level, for municipal infrastructure and for many other things. You won't stop life now that there's no more for the social, no more for associations, no more for the heat, no more for anything that goes to the local community so we can focus everything on this. So it's a serious thing. The objectives of the European Union's regional policy, cohesion policy. There have been a lot of speeches about them, so convergence, regional competitiveness and employment and European territorial co-operation, three fundamental objectives. For convergence, this is what the government said was the desire for all parts of Croatia to be one because there is 81.5% of all funds, so that is the key in the other 16, in the third 2.5%. So for this part, 81.5% of the funds we've done well on paper but we're from those preconditions to use, let's believe that prepared strategic documents to confess to you, though I doubt it. But we have three preconditions prepared strategic documents, prepared projects and adequate administrative capacity. We've got a fourth, and that's the asset that's its own, which is always the same. He's not a prerequisite, he's a condition. We don't have any of those three preconditions. This one's half your word. We're not repeating again against Zagreb's use of funds, but we would say it like this in Slavonia. You know, according to everything that was said I had already mentioned 18 of the 21st Croatian counties belong to the less developed regions of the most underdeveloped 18 except Zagreb according to the EU standards of Istria and Primorje-Gorski Kotar County. They've all stayed below 75%. And now it says this division where Zagreb along with Međimurje, along with Slavonia and Baranja, along with other undeveloped regions will benefit under the same conditions as the funds, is not fair. That's what you said. It's not fair. Because there are funds for Zagreb, they are provided the same in EU funds under slightly different conditions. Because with us in Slavonia and Baranja, it would be almost as if we had three food-filled boilers, in this case, Euros. One boiler is for those most malnourished, so to speak, for those who are hungry and poor or underdeveloped. In it is the most meat, the euro, and food is very high quality but also the cheapest. In the second boiler, these are the ones with normal body weight, medium-developed. They're fed up and there's meat in it just enough not to lose weight, to get a little bit, food is good quality, but slightly higher prices. And the third wheel is for those and more than well-fed, rich, i.e. developed in which there is also meat food is also quite caloric enough, but only those with thicker bills eat from the boiler. It's a food everyone can't afford. It is an unnecessary boiler, which is why Europe predicted that only those developed could be seized from it, who have the opportunity to secure their share of the funds. I'll finish. Split into two regions, statistical regions are not good for the Republic of Croatia and is harmful for Slavonia and Baranja. We also suggest the best division in our opinion is in 5 regions. Alternatively to 4 regions of which, if 5 regions are suggested to be and that is what we propose as a conclusion to the Parliament to divide into 5 regions to be one Slavonia and Baranja, 5 Slavonian-Baranja counties with a total population of 806,000, the second being Dalmatia with 857, the third Zagreb with 792000, the fourth southwestern Croatia with 857. It would be entered except for Istria, Primorje-Gorski and Licko-Senj County to be brought down below 75% and Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac County because they are then certainly within the group of those less developed regions. The fifth, northwest Croatia is Međimurska, Varazdinska, Krapinsko-Zagorska County, Zagrebačka, Koprivnica-križevačka and Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County. With this division, it is 976000 inhabitants, no one would, therefore, save Croatia, help northwestern Croatia and not harm anyone. Alternatively divided into 4 statistical regions, according to our proposal, would look like Slavonia and Baranja 5 Slavonia-Baranja County, Dalmatia as we said, southwestern Croatia as we said Istria, Primorje-goranska, Ličko-senjska, Karlovačka and Sisak-Moslavina County, northwestern Croatia the same as it was in the version of 5 without Zagreb County. And the fourth region would be central Croatia, the city of Zagreb with Zagreb County, where the city of Zagreb would also descend from the 110% European average. And it is true that it would be a region that would then withdraw under those conditions for a region in transition. Here, thank you all for your patience. I thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister, for having the patience to listen to all of us, not just the proponents of interpretation. But I'm also asking you that what you've heard here really isn't just that the left ear came in, and the right one came out, and maybe some miracle happens and you don't wait seven years. Perhaps you would like to ask Brussels to amend this decision before 1.7. You're saying it's over? Nothing's over until it's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30400	Thank you. Gold Comadin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30401	Thank you. Here, Mr. Buric, I can see that you thank us for our patience and should thank you for saying the same thing five times. But what you said about the divisions that are harmful to Croatia is every division of good. The only rules of the game can be to blame. Each division imports the same funds into Croatia. And I said before, you're talking about division. Division could be unfair, but it doesn't mean it will be. I didn't hear you talking, when HDZ divided Croatia into three statistical regions, then I didn't hear you say anything. I spoke then, and there were more people from northwestern Croatia. And also Slovenia is one region today, all of it. I mean, it's not a matter of division, it's a matter of justice to the internal distribution that I've said before. So one project I'm just going to say, I'm going to mention, for example. A straight line that can self-expend 4 Croatian annual allotments. Of course it's unfair and it can't all go into one such project. And in the end, I would ask that, thank you, I mean compliments if you'd said that I spoke rationally and honestly as if I were of opposition. Look and reason as well as stupidity and honesty as well as lies is equally distributed to both opposition and position you know. So I'd like to ask you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30402	Replication response, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30403	I agree, it's consistent with that saying that a genius has limits to its ability, but stupidity isn't so handicapped, is it? Well, good. I may have repeated some things several times but it was to determine the material. And in 2007, I wasn't a representative at the Croatian Parliament, so I didn't even have a chance to discuss it. About what reactions I had only had the opportunity to read. What kind of debate was being held here in the Croatian Parliament I don't know, but I am convinced that at the time, since you were in opposition you were a great advocate of such opposition and that at that time you advocated no, it was not even in your dream that you were too many 3, let alone 2. Then you objected because the European Commission accepted the division of 2005 into 4 regions, what we are proposing now, to 4 regions, where Zagreb was not alone and you were then opposed to being 3 regions, you advocated 4. What did you do now? You promised in pre-election time not even four, it's going to be five, and I'm not going to repeat here for the sixth time because five times I've repeated the same thing. And maybe there'll be an opportunity seven times. But in any case, I agree with you that reasonable debates are not shared according to whether you belong to an opposition or a position, but I wanted to be honest with you that it was as pleasant for me to listen as others to hear you agree with the opinion and those who are not on the same side of the position or opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30404	And Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30405	Dear fellow Buric, here you will have another chance simply to break that two billion kuna money-for-a-local self-government that goes really into investment. But it's also going to pave the way for some muddy macadamic roads that we certainly won't apply to EU funds, and you can't apply Mr. Deputy Minister 100 meters in one street in a suburban village, there are cities that still have such, etc., etc. If we had maybe 50 billion kunas and decentralisation that should occur then we could talk about money for projects and pre-accession funds. A similar problem I have in Đakov was the Komadin in the Primorje-Gorski County. Sam like the mayor said it's hard to raise those 10%, hard because he doesn't have those funds. Regardless of what the Primorje-Gorski County is more developed than Osijek-Baranja. Thus, there is no city of Djakovo on that wastewater purifier and belonging to the 3.7m-euro collector system. Where'd he get his budget from, like, 40 million kuna? Not thanks to Vinkovic but thanks to the system as shared in this Croatia tax revenue. And I still have to pay the VAT of 25% of the state and a flat fee to Croatian waters. What's the point? What's the point? Start working and helping local and regional self-government, I end up, able to finance projects and eventually make them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30406	Thank you, thank you. Time's up. Replication response, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30407	Is it over? It is. Well, nothing, I'll just say after everything that's been said, Mr. Deputy Minister, I think we can finish this sapient hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30408	And that was a replica of a colleague next to you, wasn't it? I'm closing the debate. We will vote later on the proposal for an interpretation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We'll do one more point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30409	Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure conditions for balanced regional development based on the use of EU funds. The debate is closed. In accordance with the opinion of the Government and the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, I am voting on the following conclusion: - the impediment on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure the conditions for balanced regional development based on the use of EU funds Please make your statement. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 85 votes and 33 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30410	It is - Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by 45 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. You received the motion for a decision by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? On behalf of my colleague, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30411	Dear colleagues and colleagues thank you for staying in the assembly and at this time of the evening I must admit that it is unusual for constitutional changes to be opened in 15 to 20.45 minutes, but we expected that this topic would be put in place as soon as possible. It's a shame this debate didn't last a little longer before to open a debate around midnight. If I remember correctly, when Prime Minister Milanovic mentioned this initiative here in front of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public, along the way, he promised to come to this debate and that he would gladly defend the government's arguments about why it is against change and prove that the motives of the promoters are not sincere, and that the promoters are wrong. I don't really know if anyone missed out on the Prime Minister's presidency to inform the Prime Minister's office that this debate will be tonight, so he's not here or has given up on that promise in the meantime and doesn't think promises should be made. I also remind you of a never changed decision of the Croatian Parliament Presidency, one... agreement with Croatian Television that the meetings of the Croatian Parliament when discussing the confidence of the Government, the state budget and constitutional changes are transmitted by Croatian television. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this time, too, that agreement was not made because of course it was necessary to do everything to make this debate unscathed. This rule I mentioned earlier was agreed in 2004 and was respected until tonight, until tonight. However, none of the public in Croatia will be able to hide, nor will this shameful fact that we treat the opposition initiative for constitutional changes in the Croatian Parliament in this way, i.e. one's shame certainly does not propose. According to the current Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the possibility of calling a referendum exists with the Parliament's decision, so the Parliament itself may decide to call a referendum on amendments to the Constitution, on the draft law or on other issues in its own section. The second option of the referendum is on the proposal, i.e. when the President of the Republic sets out a referendum on amendments to the Constitution or other issues relevant to the independence, unity and survival of the Republic of Croatia. And the third option is when it requires, according to the current provision, 10% of voters plus the addition that still according to the current referendum law, the time of signing is 15 days. Decisions in the referendum shall be taken by the majority of those who have joined and the decision in the referendum shall be binding. I will not spread the topic to a local referendum where the criteria are even more stringent and stricter, as far as citizens' rights are concerned to challenge the referendum and that we still have a provision there that is valid if more than 50% of the voters are registered. So far, no constitutional change referendum, no referendum on any draft law has been called, and only two referendums on unification from the former state and others on Croatia's EU association have been called. No president of the Republic has called a referendum so far, and citizens have collected a sufficient number of signatures twice so far, but no referendum, no citizens' signatures based on the number of signatures, has been held. I also remind you of the fact that, during the last constitutional changes, the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution was adopted in 2010 which required the adoption of a new Law on Referendum between the other laws implementing the Constitutional Change within 6 months. Of these constitutional changes, the entire 11th, the whole 12th is now in 2013 and there is no new law. The debate on the number of signatures citizens should collect when they ask for, require a referendum was very alive in the Croatian Parliament in 2010. At that time, the ruling HDZ remained on the stand and felt that 10% of voters' signatures were optimal that a solution to the constitutional arrangement had been reached on the Committee on the Constitution, but it was concluded that the topic would be reconsidered. On the other hand, all the opposition parties, including me as an opposition representative, were then proposed to reduce the number 10%. 56 of the electoral bodies were the SDP's Club's proposal and it discussed not only here at the plenary session but also on the Constitutional Committee where, just before the vote on the second phase of constitutional changes, Leko expressed great regret as a member of the committee that no agreement had taken place and that point of constitutional change. I've submitted the amendment. I didn't propose 5% but 2% of the voters' signatures, which, of course, were rejected and in those two weeks, were rather strange situations that only three parliamentary deputies voted against in the draft constitutional changes. Therefore, those who believed that they were then to reach agreement on the number of these signatures. They voted for constitutional changes without that change. The proposal for a decision we offer does not contain a percentage of the electoral body but a fixed number of 200 thousand. We believe that such a solution is clearer and better because all possible disputes, disputes on the number of voters are avoided, or by which list of voters will take the percentage of the calculation needed for the validity of the citizens' initiative. 200 grand corresponds to approximately 5%. I remind you that the deadlines for the collection of these signatures are still such that the signatures should be collected within only 15 days and that it was the subject of the debate at that time. And it has been said that in the new Law on Referendum, deadlines will be extended. However, the deadline for collecting signatures is not constitutional matter. At least not yet, because some who participated in this debate have objected to our proposal why we did not propose to establish a deadline for signing in the Constitution. We have come from the assumption and the principle that, given that the deadlines on collection as well as the procedure for collecting signatures are determined by a special law and that even so far it has not been constitutional matter we have not proposed. But we don't mind and that deadline will be entered in the Constitution. The third point of dispute and in 2010 as well as the opinion of the Government, which was delivered in writing, was the question whether the Constitution should limit topics or areas which could not be decided in the referendum. For example, such as human rights or other topics that are believed to be responsible must be assumed by representative or executive authority and are not suitable or similar for a referendum decision. However, I recall that there should be absolutely no fear that even in the case of a sufficient number of citizens' signatures, and even after verifying the validity of those signatures, there may be a call and a referendum which would be counter-constitutional and due to Article 95. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court which is authorised by that provision to question the constitutionality of every referendum issue. So a safeguard mechanism against a referendum that would be an opposition in Croatia exists. It is true that in some countries such topics or such restrictions have been entered into their constitutions or laws, but Croatia currently has a legislative solution, the protection of constitutionality in the referendum issue, and that is the Constitutional Court. And I note that such a solution we have today is not good. Because the Constitutional Court is the last in a series of decision-makers, and this happened during the last such citizens' initiative when more than 700 thousand signatures were collected, when a check of validity was carried out and then, at the request of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court discussed both the constitutionality of issues and the procedure and decided that there were no formal legal grounds for holding the referendum. In democratic states that do not restrict citizens' right to direct democracy, the issue of constitutionality is at the beginning of the process. So a civil initiative or a group of citizens, as it is called under the current law, first addresses the Constitutional Court, which assesses the constitutional issue and when it receives the consent of the Constitutional Court only then joins the collection of citizens' signatures. And after that, when it is established that the number of signatures is sufficient and that they are valid, no one can dispute or avoid the obligation to call a referendum anymore. And if we had such a order of business in Croatia then this nadal system so that the Constitutional Court could at the end of the proceedings declare the unconstitutional issue, they would not use twice and thus send extremely bad messages. I find it frightening that the government's opinions that direct democracy suppresses representative democracy. I cannot simply understand the fact that the government really believes that there is no area of civil interest in Croatia, no subject, no bill by which citizens would have the opportunity to seek a referendum decision as easily as possible. No, direct democracy complements parliamentary democracy, direct democracy directs parliamentary democracy. It can often also prevent bad moves by either executive or representative authorities and alter their decisions. Is Slovenia, Ireland, Switzerland, Iceland, Italy, Poland countries in which representative democracy is suppressed? And these are countries where the largest number of referendums in Europe has been implemented so far. By making this proposal, we and demanding the right of citizens to refer to the referendum, we have managed no experience as someone has told us on the Committee on the Constitution, Napoleon or Hitler because even Hitler was called to help as an argument of opposition to this proposal. Our role models were exactly countries such as Slovenia, Switzerland, Iceland, Italy and Poland, but look out for the EU now. According to EU regulations, the requirements of a million citizens in at least 1/3 EU member states that can be collected in time for 12 months and even on the Internet, a European referendum is being called. It is given the right for EU citizens to request the European referendum to be called. I repeat, throughout the EU, a million citizens, in Croatia, are now about 400 after the 420 voter lists are cleared. From 1/3 members in 12 months in Croatia for 15 days and is recognised on the Internet. In Croatia, it will probably need to leave a index finger with a signature to make it easier for police to check the validity. And interestingly, this direct democracy that European standards have prescribed has never been accused of suppressing parliamentary democracy and taking away some of the EU's rights to parliament or the EU Commission. A few months ago, a major EU reform was announced. Barroso has actually expressed the idea that Europe is moving towards the creation of its own kind of banking union first, and in the final phase, it should actually be the United States of Europe that will surely seek a new treaty or a completely new treaty if not the new European Constitution or the amendment of the current Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. When the information appeared, Prime Minister Milanovic said it would then require another referendum in Croatia because it is more important for Europe to change than it was when Croatia entered it or decided to enter it. But only a month later, the same prime minister, Milanovic, said, "The changes to the basic European agreements and regulations that are permanent will bring about the tectonic shifts of the structure and architecture with which we joined the EU. In such situations, I am inclined to refer but not ultimately." The government is making an offer for citizens to decide on something in the referendum or to give the ultimate, as far as I know. The government may propose a referendum to the Parliament. From this changed attitude, it is quite certain that when these tectonic movements of the EU structure and architecture occur, and if this ruling coalition is in power, that the citizens of Croatia will not decide on these tectonic changes in a referendum unlike the citizens in many other Member States who are also carrying out referendum decisions for less. There are a lot of fears in Croatia, people in Croatia are afraid of much, but in Croatian politics is the biggest and strongest fear of citizens being able to decide or change a decision made by the political elite, either in the executive or in the parliamentary government. How many of these restrictions and how successfully in the laws we have made it impossible for citizens in the referendums to decide the words and the fact that even the referendums on the replacement of mayors, mayors and mayors in Croatia have not only not been implemented but no practical success has been achieved because of the prohibiting clause on the obligation to exit more than 50%. So the perfect system is created that at first sight when you look at the Constitution really gives citizens the right to a referendum. However, since we did not have any referendum after the Parliament's decision on any law, no other issue from the Parliament's section, since neither the local, regional referendums in Croatia in the decision on essential interests and the citizens being asked, I am now asking the question of where the boldness of the government, based on the data they have written, is evident from the context of valid constitutional solutions that not only is democracy in the Republic of Croatia not only formally established but rather on the contrary, a high degree of democracy has been ensured. It was as if there were five referendums in Croatia annually, whether national or regional. In 23 years, only two and that is why, on the subject where the Constitution was registered, it is prescribed that it must be decided in a referendum, that these constitutional provisions were not likely to be the European referendum either. And they say they are praised for making a significant shift in democratic decision-making in the referendum because there is no need for more than 50% of voters to come to it and for the decision to be made by the majority of the voters. But this change in the Constitution was not made in order to bring citizens closer to direct democracy, to facilitate their decision-making, but it was justified that there was later a justified fear and panic that the referendum would not succeed because of voter turnout or indistinguishability, and before the referendum was called, this provision in the Constitution was changed solely because of the referendum on entry into the European Union. And I wouldn't be surprised if someone came up with the idea of returning that clause again like we haven't taken it off for local and regional referendums since 2010. And I end up next, say wise men, opponents of the right to initiative, are not the Constitution of underpants to change every day. True, but neither democracy nor the right of citizens to democracy is anyone's property nor where they have the right to decide in 2010 only those who asked for 5% of the signatures, who signed requests for a referendum when it was carried out by trade unions, and today, when they have the power to decide, every thought of introducing into the Constitution this provision on facilitating citizens' access to the referendum is declared unserious, political, irresponsible behavior that will mean nothing. Whether they were also irresponsible in 2010, politicians who were also seeking a reduction in the number of signatures, and what should only be asked what they were when the request for a referendum was signed but not on the first day, not on the second, not on the seventh, when it was clearly visible through the media that a sufficient number of signatures would be collected, only then did they get the strength and courage and came to sign and put their signatures on. And it is these insults, these demeanings of all proposals and initiatives, putting down debates at the lowest levels of raw passions, that I would say brutally with every initiative coming from opposition lines was the only reason why in protest of such a late debate of attempts at agreement, I did not withdraw this proposal from the procedure. We'll go and discuss it till the end, all of us, if it takes until 1:00 in the morning. It will remain recorded and history will be written and someone will remember when and why it changes such important things as accepting a direct democracy depending on whether you are in power or in opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30412	Replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30413	Thank you. They say your only obligation in life is to remain consistent with yourself. That's one saying... In 2010, therefore, they were not politicians or inconsistencies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's what you see now about hypocrisy, because until you're stuck in the chairs in the Bane Courts, then one is said, obviously another thinks, and then when you come and do the third. The hours are late and I congratulate you on not giving up on presenting your views and needing them, regardless of who is left, just the rest and representatives of the Croatian Labourists. And as far as the HDSSB club is concerned, we didn't sign up to speak on behalf of the club because you know that we support your views. That's what we showed at the end. I only hope that this information that you said about what it's like in the EU that when we join the EU, that's one million people, that's one 500 million people somewhere around 0.2%, right? So now I don't know what's gonna change when we get in? Do these ruling think that we will apply their standards or so living in the clouds that they think that we will change the rules of the EU game. Continue on this proposal. If it doesn't pass now, I believe the time will come for direct democracy to get the place it deserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30414	There was no answer? Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30415	Honored Deputy Prime Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here is what I can count you two hands, that the debate on constitutional changes is not transmitted to Croatian radio television enough to talk about democracy, the democracy of this government, the interest in change and the real character. As old as the Croatian state was, there was not a single referendum based on the citizens' initiative. Both referendums were called by the authorities. The first one about disunity, the second one about association. Does this mean that all the authorities are so good for 22 years that citizens have no need to decide on important issues for the nation? Are we more democratic than we are of a civilized light age far away from Switzerland, which has spent over the centuries 550 referendums. All of the Croatian authorities have treated citizens especially civil society and the opposition not to speak as national unwitting holidays, which the referendums want to harm the state. Why the state? Because every government between its interests and the interests of the state puts a sign of equality, and the lie is that the government and the state are one and the same. They used to be the same people and the state. But when the government thinks of the state, it makes it easier to manipulate rather than fulfill the will of the majority. Milanovic's government argues that a referendum on the minority initiative can block the system and force the entire nation to plead. If anyone has ever blocked anything in Croatia, then the government has blocked both the state and the system and the citizens. He's trying to block us from thinking about freedom, so the realistically possible referendum is declared a perfident way of destruction. The authorities of Zoran Milanovic are troubled by the fact that the minority can also launch an initiative for a referendum, but he does not seem to be interested in what the majority will say in the referendum. Either he's not interested or he's afraid of most. The SDP's, and most of all Milanovic's mimery, is astounding. Here's the evidence for that. Our proposal for a referendum is 5% of the total number of voters. It's a high enough threshold for all charlatans and con men who would like a referendum every week, and low enough for all those who have fair and serious intentions. We have made ourselves very clear and I believe Mr. Lesar if he has good intentions to lower that threshold. That's how counterparts and colleagues met Zoran Milanovic in 2010. He spoke vigorously against 10% because it was too high a threshold, he spoke vigorously against 2% which was the original proposal of Lesar because it was too low a threshold. All those looking for less than 5% for Milanovic were charlatans and frauds. Now Milanovic changed the board. Now it's the charlatans and the con men who propose a 5% threshold. What's changed? It seems that Mr. Milanovic, by placing Prime Minister, has skipped from the club of con men and charlatans to the highest club of honest men, moralists and soul-care workers for the nation and the state. We have remained small in the club of charlatans and frauds in Milanovic's categorization, of course. If we're afraid of citizens again, if we're afraid of citizens, then we don't need democracy, then we can make all decisions in the cabinet. The 10% threshold is productive and unreal. Our proposal is 5% said Milanovic. And our proposal from the Croatian Labourists – the party of work is also 5%. The proposal for the Kukurik Coalition today is as much as 10%? Why? Because both Milanovic and SDP are afraid of the people. Both Milanovic and SDP are for a declaration only for democracy. They still argue when the devil's referendum could be seen and realized that courage and honesty and will continue to advocate the prohibiting Milanovic's expression and unrealistic threshold. What's changed? Well, gentlemen have come to power. In opposition, they were talking one thing, and now that they're sitting in the chairs, now that they're frameing everything at sixteen they're doing something completely different, neoliberal capitalism and political feudalism. Now they don't care what the people say, now they're getting in the way of opposition and civil society initiatives, they're getting in the way of democracy. Because democracy would, and the referendum is one of the peaks of democracy. So democracy could put itself at risk, watch out, the state. That's not how even the titoists, the communists, spoke publicly, especially in the liberal 8th decade. Today, in 2013, the government scares the people with a referendum because the people could seduce various charlatans and con artists who used to be in opposition, and now they're in power. Until yesterday, Milanovic was in our club, and today we were alone only a few million of us. Well, gentlemen of the government, if you have the guts, call a referendum on the referendum. Ask the people what they want? Don't doctor, don't accuse others of what you were yourself and what you thought. The referendum could damage the functioning of the state, and as if the state is now doing a great job. Croatia is booming, and Switzerland has failed with its 550 referendums or three annuals. The Swiss are digging through the trash cans, the Swiss are closing for verbal deliction. In Switzerland, and not in Croatia, they closed half of the government. In Switzerland, not in Croatia, party appliances are destroying public enterprises, all because they have inflation of the referendum. It's the referendum's fault. And we, colleagues and colleagues, have an inflation of democracy. In 22 years, all authorities have done everything to prevent citizens from participating in the decision-making process. And not only was there an opportunity but there was a need. The people should have said what they thought about the arbitration agreement, the people should have said what they thought about whether to join NATO or not, the people should have said what kind of privatisation they wanted, they should have told the citizens of the City of Zagreb whether they wanted to raise money to build a stadium and finance Dinam. Where's that? There is. Porto is famous for wine, university and the same name club that is chaired by the Mayor of Port, and the club is funded by the citizens of Port. But that's what they're asking themselves at the referendum. Although 200 thousand signatures collected in 30 days in 2010 were optimal numbers, today it is charlatan. Dangerous to the state, by order and by authority. It's just that they're missing a debate on a referendum against the state's delinquents. Yes, we are loathing the microcry and remain on the proposal of 200 thousand signatures, we remain on the proposal that these 200 thousand signatures for the referendum be collected for 30 days because I will remind the Government of Zoran Milanovic in Switzerland the collapse of 50,000 signatures is collected 90 days, three months. If we were to suggest it, we'd have to propose 90 days, three months, we'd be sent by an emergency platoon and a SWAT team. That we Croatian Labourists suggest that the constitutionality of the referendum issue be decided before the signatures of the provision begin to be collected that after the 800,000 signatures have been collected, they decide whether the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution to rape democracy. 800 or 700 thousand signatures, however, were not bound by a political constitutional court to anything but legal play. We have not doubted either in 2010, and we do not doubt today that 200 thousand signatures are an optimal opportunity for citizens to get an active role in political processes and after the election between two election cycles for Parliament and local self-government. Because democracy means the influence of citizens on decision-making processes. It is hypocritical to call the elections a holiday of democracy, and then to trample all promises to declare a 4-year moratorium on the use of democracy. Of course, it is necessary that we do not really paralyze the government to set security limits. She should prevent the abuse of democracy. It is easy to agree on what should not be decided by a referendum. We'll reach a consensus on that. It is not up to the referendum to decide on human rights because they are guaranteed to everyone always, they are unquestionable. Taxes, budgets, pardons. Some European countries do not allow a referendum on ratifications and acceptances of international agreements. Isn't there three or four of you on this left-hand side of me, and it's not embarrassing when you have to step on your word just because it's being trampled by your president? Yesterday you stood up for 200 thousand signatures, or 5%, and today for 400 thousand signatures, or 10%. Yesterday your mouth was full of people, freedom and democracy, and today you are men in the name of power to trample both the people and the rights and freedoms and democracy. You're always turning out to be a measure of democracy, and you're not. As you haven't learned anything from history, you haven't learned anything from HDZ's mistakes. We learn from both their and your mistakes so as not to repeat them. You admit that you were also populists in the opposition, and now you're what? Pragmatists. Say yourself a word that characterizes those who agree with 4.5 million of their own citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30416	Replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30417	An esteemed colleague of mine had a very inspired discussion, but you said one inaccuracies, so I decided to replicate. You said at one point that every government has its own personal interest to identify with the interest of the state, approximately like that, when it comes to power. Well, that's not so, it may be somewhere else, but in Croatia, when they sit in the ruling chair, they often put their personal interest above the state's interests. Well, that's what we had a chance to see in that last government, and because when you said that half of the government in prison, we often say that, unfortunately, we now have a situation where we have half the government in Remetec and the other half on nerve calming pills while waiting for the DORH to knock on them. But they're no better either, there was a personal benefit, here they fear the people. And exactly 5% of citizens for the referendum is more than enough, and more than enough, and especially given what Lesar said in the opening report, that in countries which are, therefore, less democratic than Croatia is enough 0.2%, 10 times even less. But you don't have to fear asking for 90 days, as it is in Switzerland. I think that if it were to get closer to the realization that no one would send a ruling intervention platoon to you, perhaps they would deport you to Switzerland, would you remind them too much of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30418	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30419	No, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30420	You don't. Next line, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30421	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, listening to you like this, I think it's a shame that you at the club were struggling to write the arguments of this proposal, so you could only write that you were proposing an amendment to Article 87(3). The constitution and in its explanation put all quotes of Prime Minister Milanovic, what he said when we changed the Constitution in 2010. If you'd just copied it, it would have been an extraordinary explanation for your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30422	But maybe someone shouldn't have even signed against why he was a few years ago. On behalf of the SDP club Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30423	Dear colleagues and colleagues, offered somewhat by a debated colleague, Lesar, I'm going to change the course of what I was thinking of talking about, and I'm going to start with the following words. I'm going to ask if Finland, Denmark, Germany or France are democratic countries? I think we'll all agree that they are. Although, for example, Finland or Denmark at national level, they do not know the institution of the citizens' initiative. Although Germany has been offered the experience of which the distinguished colleague Lesar spoke a federal referendum only knows as an exception, even though France has again been offered historical experiences of which the distinguished colleague Lesar spoke, it has a 10% censorship, or 10% of the voter signatures collected, or 4 600 thousand French voters, to sign the referendum. And these countries, and after all that, are not undemocratic, but in many, many things they can be our role model. Why did I bring this up? Because I wanted to point out that for every example you have set on the citizens' initiative for the referendum, at least one example can be found that indicates otherwise. And where are we in Croatia about this now? We have chosen our way, our path, which in 2010 came from consensus, which was adopted in this House by a vast majority of votes. And that time, he says, to call a referendum, it takes either the initiative of the competent authorities or the clearly expressed will of the voter to call the referendum. The founder, when he decided to do so, concluded that this clearly expressed voter's will was 10% of the RS voter's. I agree with him, too, but the same constitutionalist added to another squad, which is that after that, the referendum does not require any censorship for him to succeed, and this is our Croatian path that we agreed on 2.5 years ago, we decided for him, we decided it was good. And regardless of all these quotes that you've made today, we at the SDP club today feel that nothing has changed, that the path we've chosen is good. What you were saying may not be part of this proposal, you did not propose it as a proposal to change the Constitution even though, for example, at the SDP club, you would be supported. That's what we talked about, you'll remember we had a round table on a referendum in Croatia where the plebiscite will is expressed and the need for the deadline for the signing to be extended. And here I agree fully with you, and here we agree with you and the Minister of Administration has expressed his intention to modernise the referendum law, which needs to be modernised, modernised among other things in this regard. To extend the deadline for the referendum. Is that gonna be 30 or 45 days or more of that we'll discuss? But it's not the subject of these constitutional changes. The subject of these constitutional changes is the only and only change in the number of signatures needed to collect, i.e. a pardon for calling a referendum. And there's our position clear, the solution we have in the Constitution is good and it doesn't need to be changed. That is why we cannot support this initiative, because we believe that a referendum system which combines a clearly expressed voter will to call a referendum and then a referendum that does not require a number of voters to succeed represents what is optimal for Croatia's democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30424	Replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30425	Thank you. Dear counterpart Grbin, you have begun a question of whether Germany, Finland, the Danish Democratic Countries, and I will now ask you whether Finland, Denmark and Germany were democratic countries and in 2010 when you said it was necessary 5 and not 10%, whether the democratics became only after you entered the Bane Courts or were both democratic and that year when you advocated it. If you had said what you just said in 2010 that you agree that it would take 10%, not 5% and not 5%, in front of the president of your party, Mr Milanovic, then you probably wouldn't be sitting in the Parliament today because you would have been removed from the list and you said nothing had changed. Yes, nothing has changed, you've only changed, that is, by ruling you've shown your true face, and the solution in the Constitution is good and you say you don't need to change it if that's the way power should be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30426	The answer to the replica of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30427	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I haven't entered the Bane Court, and I haven't changed my attitude since 2010, so it didn't cost me my position. And it was objectively not changed by other representatives of the SDP to support constitutional changes, they voted in favour of such a solution, the vote in the Croatian Parliament gave support to this solution, after the debate, the coordination, several working groups, the coordination, the consensus in this House created such a solution, and we consider it good today. And we do believe that, in this respect, it has not changed since 2010, and as far as the countries I have listed are concerned. I listed them for one simple reason, to show how unequal the practice of the referendum in Europe is. We have a practice of Slovenia with an incredibly low censorship that has led to the country's exceptional political instability, that virtually today almost no decision can be made there without danger anymore. On the other hand, I will return to Finland, Norway, return to France, these are also democratic countries, but each one has chosen its own path. And that's what the Republic of Croatia did and why it would be changed two and a half years later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30428	On behalf of the promoter, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30429	In Finland, Denmark and Germany, colleagues of the parliament and the government resign because they bought a Toblerone chocolate bar on the official card without much debate and trouble. Are parliaments one-time or two-time in Finland, Denmark or Germany? Does the Institute of Conflict of Interest and its political sanctioning function in Finland, Denmark and Germany as in Croatia? Is there an emergency procedure in Finland, Denmark and Germany for 78% of the Parliament Act within 4 days? Whether Finland, Denmark and Germany are as highly centralised countries as Croatia or the local community is left with much more power issues, competences for decision-making. Whether in Finland, Denmark and Germany politicians listen not to citizens in a referendum but also when thousands are gathered to protest, demanding whether there is a conversation or a metal cage in their markets where protesters are allowed to protest. Political culture, political elites in Finland, Denmark and Germany were not your topic of debate. You said that a consensus was reached in 2010, a compromise. I won't quote you, my colleague gave me a good proposal and I thought about it, but I was afraid of a copyright suit, that I quoted Prime Minister Milanovic, so I gave it up. But here I have the minutes of the June 2010 Constitution Committee. I should now quote your colleagues, then board members, to see if consensus or compromise has been reached in an emergency or haste. And in the end, I really don't know if you can remember that, but I do. During the former state in socialism, when the municipality decided to introduce contributions, self-sufficients, it was called only a contribution, to build a school, to pave the way for roads, to build a football field, then the authorities had neither the municipal chief nor the council chief nor that community of municipalities, as it was called, so somehow but had to call a referendum on which citizens would decide what to build, when, how long and how much they would pay. Imagine the citizens making that decision back then. Who today makes a decision on the heights of municipal contributions and fees? Who decides what will be built in Croatia? Today, citizens in your position have no right to a referendum to decide whether or not a waste dump is going to be built in their backyard,...determined by 20, 25 people. And now you're asking me about Finland, Denmark and Germany. Go over there and see if anyone has ever held any stronger or greater political decision to make without the agreement of the local community being reached. And finally, how do you know that in Finland, Denmark and Germany there is no local self-government that directly decides? Nobody told you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30430	Replica, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30431	Thank you. I spoke very clearly of Finland and Denmark at national level as well as Germany at the federal level. Germany, for example, has a two-home parliament of Bundestag and Bundesrat while Finland and Denmark have a one-time parliament. Germany is a federal state, Finland and Denmark are unitary states. Finland, Denmark and Germany have made their way by once going through severe conflicts, severe wars, severe disorders. We create our own path. Let us, let this country choose its way. This country has chosen its way towards the 2010 referendum. She chose him through a consensus you call compromise. And I'm going to ask you a question now, have you ever heard of any consensus that hasn't been compromised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30432	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30433	Who chose a fellow coat of arms in 2010. citizens of this country or parliamentary representatives? Yeah. The Constitution states the Croatian Parliament can call a referendum on constitutional changes. How many constitutional changes have we had since the constitution? Do you really think that in any constitutional change so far, even in the future, citizens should never decide to do so in a referendum. You said Croatia chose. What does that mean? That you speak for 4.5 million citizens of this country, that you are Croatia, and we are what? Look at me, what are we if you are Croatia? How can you claim to be Croatia and that you chose? Where did you get the right to declare this agreement and compromise in 2010 a national compromise or consensus when no one asked about it? And just now you've confirmed, you're intimidated by the idea that the Parliament would ever, without the citizens' signature, issue a referendum on constitutional changes, you're disgusted by it, I can see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30434	Dinko Buric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30435	Dear Madam Vice President. More of a question raised by your questions Mr. Lesar ate Denmark, Finland and Germany if they were such or such countries, you listed one 7.8 questions, and then I would ask you because I'm not sure about the answer. Is Denmark, Finland, Germany or any of the other countries that we may not have mentioned here, and even one EU member state headed by the government's state that says it's the president of the random state? You may know such an example so that Croatia may not be alone. I would enrich my knowledge with your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30436	I tolerate all sorts of replicas to you today, but this really isn't a replica or a fitting one. The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30437	Buriqa, watch out. You'll get a warning. I could quote a series of Prime Ministers' statements but what is particularly important is I repeat and remind myself, he stood there and said he would be happy to come to the Parliament to discuss it to defend his behaviour in 2010 and his behaviour when he signed the union's initiative and defend the government's position that it should now be different. The fact that this promise has not been carried out, the fact that there is no one here to at least follow the debate, look even at that, speaks not of him as a politician but as a man.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30438	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30439	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So, first of all, I really need to show dissatisfaction on behalf of the club that the most important things that can be discussed in this House are the interpretation of the government's work and the proposal for constitutional change at 10 o'clock in the evening, the debates start late in the afternoon, and that in the prime term we are discussing, let's say, a report from the Testing Authority because this is really the most important issue in this country today. So I can't, or we can't get the impression that there's some intention here and it's not quite an accident. The HDZ Club will support this proposal for a decision to join the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This topic to reduce the number of signatures needed for the referendum launch initiative was discussed precisely on the occasion of the constitutional changes in 2010. Discussing the Committee on the Constitution on this proposal, the debate focused mainly on the fact that the two largest parties, which are usually one in the opposition, and one in the ruling, objected to inconsistency in their views. I will say that there have been discussions on this subject and on the occasion of these constitutional changes, that there have been several important topics at the time that have been discussed and that have entered into constitutional changes and as far as this topic is concerned that these 10% remain, the agreement has not been reached, because it is true that every proposal for the amendments then had to be agreed, compromise and consensus. So I'm just going to tell my colleague Grbino that it's a possible consensus and no compromise, if everyone thinks the same, they'll make a consensus decision about it and they won't have to bother to compromise on a position. And then you saw, and now you can see, given the number of referendums from the draft independent state of Croatia, that the conditions are clearly strict and that it is not easy to meet the necessary conditions for this initiative. At that time, we said that we would still discuss this, but it is to say these constitutional changes already reduced this strict condition in a way that does not require half the number of voters to succeed in the referendum. So the other side of the Labour proposal was even less than 5% then, the SDP was all-out by 5% or these 200 thousand as proposed by constitutional changes now, but we all said and made a commitment to amend the referendum law to extend this 15-day deadline, so that as much as possible, it would be possible not to be in reality really absolutely impossible to reach that number of signatures. The referendum law has not been amended, neither has it been amended by the parliamentary majority and the government, for a year now, neither does this government, and this parliamentary majority and Labourists have come out with a proposal to change the Constitution in order to jump it and to really make it possible because according to the current terms of the 2000 Constitution, this direct democracy really looked just a dead letter on paper. It was made possible by regulation but in practice it was impossible to implement it. It explains why the government is not doing well now, that it might be as the current prime minister, and the former president of the strongest opposition party has spoken, of all charlatans, of the world and of anyone who could reach for a referendum but the government says here and why it is opposed to this proposal, because it is possible to abuse the institutes of proposing and calling a referendum, so it is necessary to keep these necessary mechanisms, which is the number of 10% voters. That the referendum can be misused even when the Constitution says that 10% of voters are required for the implementation initiative, it is best shown to us today's prime minister, and sometimes the president of the strongest opposition parties. Because if anyone misused the Institute of Referendum and the signing of the referendum, then it was him and his party because they signed a referendum that, they signed an initiative for a referendum that was initiated by trade unions, because they as well as most of the people who signed the referendum at the time were actually me, I would say that even though the Labourists were going to rebel, that they weren't actually reading the referendum issue, but they were one general rebel, they were going to bring down the then government, and there was the opposition of the air standing in the first rows and signing. But what they did first when they came to power, it was this law that signed on the referendum issue that would not be abolished then the first thing the government proposed, and the parliamentary majority voted that these provisions did not, however, have been abolished by some other law which stated a different name, and then, somewhere in the final provisions, they said in that other law, that the provisions of that law that we had signed were actually going to implement the referendum, that it should not be abolished. Well, if it's not abuse, then I don't know which other person to think of to abuse the referendum. As for the concern that a referendum could endanger certain human rights, minority issues, etc. This will not prevent the census from rising high because in some issues the number of 10% could be reached. It shall be prevented precisely by what is prescribed in Article 95. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court which states that the Constitutional Court is questioning the constitutionality of the referendum issue and certainly in this inquiry, the Constitutional Court will not allow a referendum issue that would endanger any human rights or rights which are guaranteed by the Constitution or by constitutional law. Of course, it is a good proposal that we read from the reasons of this proposal for a change to the Constitution, which is that, in this sense, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court is also amended, and that it is then determined that this referendum issue is being questioned and its constitutionality is assessed before the signing begins, because it is truly irrational, irrational to hire the Proposer, to collect the signatures and when the signatures are collected to assess that the referendum issue is unconstitutional. So, if that would be the case, we need to stop him right at the beginning and at the beginning. As regards the dissatisfaction with the Constitutional Court's decision regarding that referendum for which the signatures were collected, it was not assessed as unauthorized, but assessed as unsustainable for the reason that the proposed law was and thus withdrawn and no longer was. Here is also for all of these reasons because we think that we should in some way loosen the conditions for encouraging a referendum launch initiative we have joined this proposal by the Croatian Labourers as a club of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30440	... Really inadmissible that none of the Government at such an important item of the agenda is present. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm out of protest looking for a break on behalf of the club for half an hour so we can consult on how to set up for all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30441	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Government is obliged to give an opinion, not obliged to attend here. But I'm giving you a break on behalf of the club so you can make your own arrangements for 10 minutes. Here you go. It's 9:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30442	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 22.02 HOURS]] At least that's how the media gets it. It was the beginning of today's session. Someone might find this funny, but we don't think it's funny. If we were to finish this session after 12 or 13 hours of work and that, not to be journalists, are not important journalists at all, it is important to protest the relationship between the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, in the context of the debate, about such important topics, and this is an important topic, so no one from the Government of the Republic of Croatia has, at least no one has been allowed to listen to what is being said here. And Mr. Prime Minister used to think, well, it's not the most important time right now, but it's true that he said that when this was discussed he would be very happy to come here and listen to it. I suggest to those who are still present here from the ruling tonight at the session, perhaps the prime minister is not familiar with informing him about it or one of his vice presidents. And it would be very correct that the future is not a problem until when the meetings are held, the problem is indeed that the promoters, in this case the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers, are rightly protested and I, on behalf of the club, join this protest, is ignoring both the Croatian Parliament and parliamentary representatives. And for that reason, I should say now that I'm leaving the session out of protest, I won't. I'll stay in the session from the protest. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30443	Individual debate, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30444	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues very short unless there will be some more breaks. Well, we are certainly aware of how much Croatia is in great difficulty, how unsuccessfully this government is struggling with these difficulties. What we talked about today in very important two things about how much the Croatian region will have, about what Croatia should be in the future democratic or non-democratic about the character of the government. And the success of the government is equal to the character of the government. This is a bad character of the government. If the president of a serious parliamentary party, today the biggest one, says in 2010, that he strongly advocates that the number of signatures in the referendum must be 5% or 200 thousand that we are looking for today, and when after 2.3 years, when MPs at the time of the main opposition coalition today also speak on committees and in debates about how 5% of the voters we need to confirm, and then they spoke in 2010 and when we talked about the character of the government, some of them also wrote, and when in a few days they change their opinion and vote 10% and then in discussions the prime minister but also in some media messages they say that they would be very happy to attend the session, that they would be very happy to explain why this change from 5 to 10%, when they were against charlatanism and why from 5 to 10%. However, today he is gone, it also says enough about how much the Parliament's work is followed, how important it is for him and how much I like to repeat this Croatian Parliament is, in fact, just a mechanism for raising hands because tomorrow at 12:00, there will be representatives, there will be 80 MPs, and there will be no hands in any debate, not at least 10%, in the afternoon or 10%. But they'll vote for you. It doesn't matter, you don't know, but the club says it's supposed to vote. This is the twilight of democracy, and I was talking about when the government is afraid of its own people. And before she told the last government that the twilight of democracy was because they were afraid. Now they've come to power and now they say don't forgive me, but what we've been saying in the opposition is wrong. Unfortunately, you're going to do this so we can get to power too soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30445	Representative Nancy Tyrelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I was thinking about going different, but one sentence said tonight in one line encouraged me to go different. And the sentence was this: "Let this land choose its way." That's exactly what this is about, who makes the country, what's the country? Is the country, does the country make up the citizens of this Republic of Croatia for which here and with such proposals laws we want to participate in creating the future of their country or country are those who believe they are not chosen by these people and these citizens, but by God's days. It was also discussed tonight that, among other things, what practice the EU countries have, Denmark, Finland, Germany, but what hurts Croatian citizens is not what practice is in EU countries, but what hurts them is that their prime minister is a non-principal person. Because this particular prime minister they elected for him was expected to be as prime minister as he was before he was elected prime minister. And it wasn't just 2010 that our prime minister spoke about the referendum and what it should look like, but on 2nd April 2008, in the central Zagreb square, when he signed a petition to call a referendum, he said: "The referendum as a Institute of Democracy makes no sense if we are afraid of citizens."and the ruling coalition is for no reason afraid of citizens, if we fear citizens then we don't need democracy, then we can make all decisions in the cabinet. It was in 2008 when it was something different in 2010, but it seems that given this cabinet it really and practically went back to what it said in 2008. A 2010. Zoran Milanovic, then only the president of the SDP commented on a union referendum on the Labour Act in the following words, quote and that will be all I will say in my personal presentation: "It is a referendum that has never been called in Croatia on the basis of the citizens' initiative. It is our initiative that the number of signatures required for the referendum is reduced from 10% of all voters enrolled, I stress all the voters enrolled, so in Croatia and outside Croatia, that is a very high number, that the percentage is reduced to 5%." We will further look for this and propose these few days in the framework of negotiations on constitutional changes. If the government doesn't agree to that, and it says it won't because they have the fear of citizens, then we think about when we get citizens' trust, when we're most in Parliament, we change the Constitution in a way that we ask the opposition for support from HDZ. I hope then, he won't be afraid of it. HDZ is not afraid, but apparently the prime minister and government are afraid and unfortunately we are where we are. And no matter what honesty is to me, but here on behalf of the motionor of these amendments I say that honesty can be defeated, but surely as far as we're concerned, it's not destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30447	An individual debate, Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30448	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Vice President, I'm sorry. May eternal glory and thanks to the direct democracy which, by this act, I think about Croatia, adio. This was a symbolic moment of silence for direct democracy. Today it is said, it has been said several times more, if the form had been reduced to the number of people needed to sign the referendum, it would have been a form of disabling the government's work. At present, two years ago, it took 450 thousand signatures, now after this census I think that the number has fallen, and soon we will come to that number that we asked for 200 thousand, but not for the reason that changes will take place, but for the reason that this government will simply, probably be so many inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia that we will be very close to that number, if not to reach that desired figure. For that reason, it might be good to in some way and make it impossible for the government to work as this government does, I'm afraid that we will come to this goal which, let's be honest, no one wants. We heard tonight that things are in the EU, as long as they need to call a referendum, we also heard examples from Finland, Denmark, Germany. To be honest, I don't see what it would be like to meet these reduced conditions when the government was elected by an absolute majority in this House, before that MPs were elected to the same majority, and that's why this government knows best what the people need, how this people is and what they want. We still have examples in the world where the government knows how the people are, so it also does not allow them referendums, although there are neither demonstrations nor strikes, let's say Kim Ju Sung, Lukashenko and so on. I hope it's not a role model and we're not trying to do that. The seriousness of this debate can be viewed by the seriousness of the subject and it is indeed serious. This tells us that we should have a direct transmission just when topics like this are normally impossible at the end of the day. Who would watch at this hour? But the seriousness of the assembly, given the time when this debate is being held, is enough to say that all the Assembly MPs would stop at my table in the kitchen and they could hold a comfortable there, wouldn't be this kind of lighting, wouldn't even need this staff. And that's enough talking about how the government looks at these still let's be honest maybe the most important legal changes that they are. A colleague mentioned the port today, I did not have long watched on television, say Munchen, building Bayron Stadium to decide where to build Bayron Stadium they held a referendum. Even about such banal things, a referendum can be held, and it doesn't seem like much of anything to us. Since the Prime Minister listens, there's no point in talking any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30449	And the final debate on this important subject, Mr. Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30450	Thank you Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the 12 who are here in these late hours about this important debate regarding the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the sake of democracy are sitting here and discussing and listening. I must say that with this greeting, I would welcome President Zoran Milanovic, who has promised to listen and attend this debate, so I believe that he is watching this debate through parliamentary television and admires it. When we talk about democracy, then we have to say this in some way in these late hours, good night democracy. I won't agree with a colleague who in some way honored democracy. Is Croatian Labourists not going to be at peace with the fact that there is no democracy in this country and that citizens have no right to decide on certain important matters in their interests. From this discussion and the views and opinions of the government that we have heard from the ruling, clearly that the concept of democracy is understood in a way we promise in the elections, citizens if they give us this power then we will absolutely have that power for 4 years and we don't care any more what the citizens think. Should we ask them about some important things or not? We wanted to share in good faith with the citizens the thought that they might come to terms. After all, this is what the previous government has taken as a commitment, this government did not want to continue and the issue of this amendment of the Constitution that we wanted to reduce to 200 thousand, which would be 5% somewhere, some of which are some achievements that could enable and citizens in the referendum would say their opinion and most of it would decide whether the drivers are right or not the drivers are right. We talked about some of these numbers today, we mentioned countries like Finland, Denmark, Germany, France. We did not mention Italy where 500 thousand signatures should be collected or one percent of voters to launch the referendum. We haven't even talked about Poland where it is necessary with a certain procedure of 100,000 signatures or 0.26% of voters. We mentioned Slovenia with 40,000 voters, which is 2% not 5%, Switzerland has 100 thousand signatures with 2%, Hungary 200 thousand signatures with 2%, Austria 100 thousand signatures with 1.2%. We can't even agree to this 5% in Croatia. Why? Because we're just concerned about what citizens think about some things, we're just worried about how this government decided, she's going to spend it, but ultimately what I won't owe much in time. However, citizens will give their final word on this, and those who do not take care of the citizens and do not ask citizens for their opinion will eventually decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30451	I ask if the proposer's representative would like to speak to the Croatian public in a final fashion?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30452	Mr. Vice President, I'll address 12 if I'm not mistaken for the presence of 13 MPs and MPs. Unfortunately, not to the Croatian public because it has been excluded from this debate. The government determined its opinion on our proposal 15. Cold last year. And that opinion is written, it's written as follows. In the system of representative democracy, the legitimacy for deciding on the most important issues has a representative body that has given citizens their trust by selecting members of that body in the general and direct elections. At the same time, in the Republic of Croatia, citizens are guaranteed the right to make direct decisions through referendums as well as to initiate and call a referendum on equally important issues. Does the proposal or debate on the number of citizens' signatures when they seek a referendum, take away the right of a representative body or remove its legitimacy of decision-making? The right to direct decision is guaranteed through the referendum. How many referendums have been held in Croatia since the creation of an independent Republic of Croatia on the basis of citizens' initiative, municipal, city, county or state? How many referendums were held on the basis of a decision by the parliament or the president of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Prime Minister? This guaranteed right in the Constitution is limited, first by the number of signatures, secondly, during the time of the collection of the signature and the third fact that at the end of the procedure is the Constitutional Court and not the citizens. The government's opinions continue with the following, "on the matter of legal certainty, the Government of the Republic of Croatia feels it is necessary to take care of the possible abuse of the institutes of proposing a referendum and to maintain the necessary mechanisms and restrictions that would prevent the possibility of incurring certain important issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rights of national minorities". How does the reduction in the number of signatures for the calling of a referendum endanger fundamental human rights, the rights of national minorities if there is a provision of the Constitutional Law in the Constitutional Court that any referendum issue that would endanger human rights and fundamental freedoms gives the right to such a referendum issue does not approve? Is it possible that those who wrote this opinion of the Government don't know about the Constitutional Law in the Constitutional Court, don't know about the practice of the Constitutional Court that was so set up? Simply using big rhetorical arguments about human rights and fundamental freedoms, they hide the fact that they do not want to make any progress in the sense that it is really possible for citizens to exercise constitutional right to direct democracy because if it were feasible then there would be these unfortunate referendums. If it hadn't been for civil initiatives and enough signatures, come on, but it was, but the referendums didn't take place. At a cabinet meeting, when Prime Minister Milanovic was discussed, I quote a media report, saying "this is one of the topics to be discussed. What is the role of the referendum, or direct democracy, and what are its limits, when necessary and when it becomes obstruction." So on the one hand, they claim that in Croatia direct democracy is available but that it can also become an obstruction. Furthermore, the fact is that after the 2010 amendments to the Constitution, the referendum decision has been totally liberalised. And even if the 10% threshold was reduced to 5%, it would mean that one who is not even close to strong would have had the possibility of obstruction through institutions as democratic power. Therefore, citizens in the referendum would have the possibility of obstruction of bad, guilty, harmful to the state's decision by the executive or parliamentary authority, representative democracy, whether it be the municipality, the city, the county or the state. And that's what they say it's scary. Imagine that citizens at the referendum vote against the privatisation of the Croatian postal bank, imagine that citizens in the referendum decide to privatise Croatia's insurance or to question in the referendum the violation of the State Property Management Act without prior adoption of a state property management strategy. It would be by the logic of things a dangerous obstruction of those who are not so strong as to put democratic power through institutions. Well, of course, the referendum is a means of deciding citizens, not those who are strong enough to make decisions in the institutions of the systems and to implement them, which is the point. If it was possible to collect 800,000 signatures in 2 weeks about something the political community has designated as important at one point, then it is possible to collect 400 thousand signatures in 4 weeks. Now that I don't know when it's in the law for 15 days, Milanovic said otherwise suspicious of the proposing's motives, I don't think they're democratic and they're more obstructive. So propose the first phase of discussion and decision-making on parliament, and the procedure for change of the Constitution is prescribed, this is only the first phase. After the first phase and making a possible decision on the accession of constitutional changes, a statement on the draft and final adoption is made, and for the adoption of constitutional changes as far as I know, it takes 2/3 of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The very idea that 2/3 of representatives in the Croatian Parliament could vote against the government's position to change the Constitution for them is an unacceptable fact. That's what it says here. God forbid 2/3 of MPs dare vote for constitutional changes if before that, the government of Prime Minister Milanovic has not given consent. And I end up with quotes: It's an ideal space for populists and it will show as the highlight of democracy and people's decision-making. What was the highlight of democracy when he applied for a referendum? The contents of the referendum issue, its right as a citizen to sign the request, the democratic right of the organiser to sign the collection or subsequent procedure that the referendum has obstructed. In June 2010, if I find it quickly, on 10 June 2010, when the decision to join and determine the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia against the draft voted three MPs. I will now say the names, last name: Lesar, Drmić and Daniel Srb. The abstentions were Ivan Bagarić and Dragan Vukic. 123 of the other participants voted in favour. Each of them individually had his reasons and motives for not supporting that decision but no one resented or questioned anyone or sanctioned as much as I knew those who had a different attitude at the time and did not support the arrangements that someone had made. Today, any attempt to open a parliamentary debate and offer a different solution is called the peak of the obstruction of parliamentary democracy. This would be true only on one condition, if the citizens in the direct elections chose the government, and it appointed the Parliament, but it seems to me that in Croatia it is a little different, that citizens in direct elections choose representatives in the Croatian Parliament who vote in confidence to the government proposed by the prime minister on the basis of the mandate given to him by the President of the Republic. And we didn't have any illusions that the ruling majority would accept these changes, especially after this government opinion, but the words used, the qualifications of the proposal itself, I won't use the same dictionary as the prime minister. I haven't experienced nine years in Parliament, and I've had over a hundred different proposals, so I have to say that these qualifications on my proposals in these nine years have never been served by a single HDZ prime minister. Never. They did not accept the proposals, defend their views, but such qualifications or disqualifications were never used in the government's view and in the prime minister's session. It saddens me because after these parliamentary elections the past I had the hope that it would really be different. Later I realized that hope for democratic power, better society, a more just society, more social justice has two sisters. The first sister's hope is rage, and the second one's courage. When anger and courage join together then such pamphlets as this speech of the prime minister at the cabinet's session and the charges addressed to us as proposings will not be useful, will not arrive, will have no one to insult, will have no one to accuse of attempting destruction where nothing will be asked of him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30453	Now we're going to hear some more replicas on this exhibit. First, honourable representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lesar, in your final presentation, you mentioned the importance of the referendum several times and cited several examples that there were no referendums that would not be. And I agree with you and it is particularly important for the Croatian state to always take care that there was no referendum on Croatians, there would be no independent and independent Croatian state 23 years ago. But you are quite understandable and clear without twisting and have discovered the most likely reasons for the opposition of today's ruling change as suggested by the club of representatives and promoters. He, fearing that, for example, Croatian citizens would say in a referendum on the privatisation of Croatia's insurance, on the privatisation of the HPB. You also said that it was, in that bush lies a rabbit. It is a source of opposition and fear and change of opinion in relation to the attitudes they had. And when you were talking about those names they voted on, then I would suggest to you, that how you decide about it yourself, it wouldn't be worse for you to write it down well, it wouldn't be worse to think about the possibility of a name vote tomorrow so that it remains well written who was in favour and who against these constitutional changes that sooner or later will see the light of day, probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30455	The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30456	Comrade Buric, I now announce, and tomorrow we will do it in writing. Of course, for this point, we're going to ask for a personal statement, an individual statement by each representative tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30457	The second replica is the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30458	Thank you very much. So colleague Lesar, you're free to read and dismember this opinion of the government looking for that logic or some ratio. You won't find her. It is simply an opinion to say no to constitutional changes because the opposition, the former opposition, when it has strongly advocated it now that it has come to power simply direct democracy is not desirable and they do not need it. And how bold this government is and how confident and confident it is in the power of its voting machine here in the Parliament is that nothing or effort is necessary, because it knows that everything will be voted on and that we all remember the constitutional changes of 2010, as much as we have discussed, how many working groups there have been, how much the constitutional text has been cycled. Did any of the ruling invite you to discuss this proposal? Has it been said that it's not the smartest thing not to change the Constitution at any moment, but to tell you, we're going to spotfully amend the referendum law and at least extend that deadline, so maybe that direct democracy will be possible. You're saying they find it unacceptable that the Parliament could vote something different from what the government says. No, it's not unacceptable to them, it's inconceivable, inconceivable that there will be no party discipline and that all those MPs who are not even close when they're talking, Mr. Vice President, that despite the irony in your voice, the subject is too important, and it's important and so important to see that you've instructed to raise the replica, that something probably coincides with what we're going to say here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30459	There was no irony in my voice. The third replica is the esteemed representative, and the pardon reply to the replica Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30460	Comrade Lovrin, none of the ruling has called for any dialogue, conversation and agreement. However, thanks to the part of the members of the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure, we have decided and held one by one, a very good debate on the referendum system and the necessary changes for which the promise was therefore about to arrive in the procedure of the referendum law. Not yet, although the prime minister announced it on November 15th. This lack of talks and dialogue of informal nature, but also on the working bodies of the Parliament is a lack of democratic procedure in the Croatian Parliament. This is due to the fact that not everyone else's opinion is accepted not differently, but someone else's, because it doesn't matter what is offered here at all, what is proposed but only ours and yours are considered. And it grieves. It degrades and demeans the reputation of both us MPs and the Parliament as institutions, not those things that are often taken as examples. Because that citizens can bear witness that constitutional changes are seriously discussed with at least 50 present representatives in the day, not during the night, then they would have hope if not now, in two, three, four years, such things could normally be expected in Croatia. All those who have so far treated such initiatives using accusations and insults instead of dialogue have paid a high price.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30461	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Lesar, of course we respect and allow, although we, as most of us, do not have to allow you because you constitutionally have that your opinion is different from ours, but then let us, too, have our own opinion on this side of the assembly, that we, on this side of the assembly, may be able to talk about something, I hope, think differently from you. Let us do what we have received from Croatian citizens, which is to lead this country as best we can, the best we know. Let us do it. Let us then go before the citizens to the elections and that they judge whether we did well. And think about whether you will ever get those two-thirds you talked about and then be able to spend what you're proposing right now, which you're up for, but just please before you do, ask yourself how much that decision would cost Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30463	Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30464	My fellow coat of arms, unlike you, I allow you everything and the right to stand, opinion, suggestions and decision. Both in our proposal and in the debate that was and when I explained the proposal, I did not use a single word past the topic or accuse us in the way that we initiators of this idea were systematically publicly attacked. I'm a real man, and how well I remember after '93. For years, no party in the Croatian Parliament had a two-thirds majority. But I also assure you that from this topic as well as many others we have proposed in these 13 months we will not give up no matter who did the ruling coalition, and when we are able to deal with someone then one of the conditions of cooperation will be this. This is one of ten of our points of which we not only don't give up now, but as long as this party exists we won't give up. It's called consistency in attitude. It's just that in the first referendum when we make it possible for citizens to fall, we lose trust and fall. It's preparedness and courage at risk. It is a responsibility to citizens, not only every fourth year, but the willingness to share important decisions with them. That's what we're very different about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30465	And the last replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30466	Dear fellow Lesar, in the opening speech when the Prime Minister finished his opening speech, I spoke to him in words that it was one of the best speeches I've heard in politics, except for the government's speech of Gotovina, although it is manipulated in the media that I said including the government's speech, and I ended up remembering that short replica of the prime minister, these are just words, we expect your actions. We welcomed the work, a good speech was practiced, but nothing came true from that speech. The attitude towards the parliament, the attitude towards MPs, especially the attitude towards opposition representatives who are almost half those who went to the elections or a third, does not at all matter that Mr Milanovic does not want to be prime minister to all Croatian citizens and that he wants to be prime minister only to those who voted for him. It's a clear message already sent several times. That this government does not want to be the government of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And it's actually our biggest disaster. And speaking of which promises were made when the government came to power the government received a mandate on false promises. We've quoted here at least 20, 30 times from the Government Programme what was promised, and what was realized. Unfortunately, little has been accomplished and the end of this government will certainly not be as it was at the beginning of Mr Milanovic's speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30467	Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30468	My colleague Vuksic remembers that you were impressed by the prime minister's performance speech. But you also remember that I warned you to be careful when such speakers are involved and that you must be patient and see what will be done. And just after what was going on and his relationship with the Parliament and the parliamentary deputies, but the government as a whole, that's where my reserve later confirmed. Thank you, everyone who signed the initiative, took part in the debate. Thank you to all those who have supported this kind of thinking in public in Croatia, and the message to those who oppose it today makes sure that all those who consider themselves to be mature enough to decide in addition to the elections in the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30469	I'm closing the debate and interrupting the session. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency in 2011. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30470	Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a Draft Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the text of the Proposal for a Decision on Accession of the Constitution has been concluded. I am voting on a proposal for a decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The club of representatives of the Croatian Labour Party has asked for a name vote. I note that accepting the proposal requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Representative of the team of representatives of the proposal, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30471	Your Honor, Mr. President. Based on Article 223a or 225a and nevertheless on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I am looking for a ten-minute break to explain the reasons and motives of seeking individual voting together with the other applicants.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30472	I'm setting a break. At 13.30, I'll see you here. Please represent the Croatian Labour Club, please silence that we can work. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30474	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At the initiative of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Laburists and with the signature of 44 representatives of the Croatian Parliament, we proposed a decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. After several months of waiting on the agenda for the debate on the proposal was opened last night after 20.00 hours and it lasted if I am not mistaken until 23.00 hours. Yesterday morning, we discussed such an important document as the Croatian Public Testing Report, and the debate on constitutional changes opens at night. There were 13 MPs in the hall during the debate. How many times did we complain about the reputation of the Croatian Parliament making up reasons? We suggested that instead of 10% of voters' signatures, the referendum could be triggered by 200,000 signatures. This is an area of direct democracy, and we aimed at facilitating citizens the right to exercise constitutional right to a referendum. In 23 years, no referendum in Croatia was held either after parliament's decision by the president of the Republic or on the citizens' initiative. Two were held, and only the one who imposed and ordered the Constitution. Prime Minister Milanovic pledged to attend the debate on the constitutional change proposal, defend the government's opinion, listen to the debate. He didn't come. Who is to blame that Prime Minister Milanovic was not informed that such an important topic as constitutional changes would open the debate at night when he was not there? He did not come to explain statements that direct democracy suppresses the representative, that the referendum poses a potential danger. He did not come to explain why he sought 5% of the signatures in 2010, and today he calls the same proposal populist and his behaviour a state-of-the-art attitude. And he did not come to explain why the government had not yet proposed to the Parliament to adopt the new Law on Referendum in order to regulate some of the procedural actions and although under the Constitutional Law on the implementation of constitutional changes, the law should be adopted in 2011. Until last night, since 2003, it was a practice for Croatian television to pass on sessions of the Parliament when the debate and decision on the confidence of the Government, the state budget and constitutional changes until last night, I guess because constitutional changes were not proposed by the government or by the ruling majority but by the opposition MPs. We believe that this is the relationship between those who decided to open the debate in the night without calling the prime minister and giving him the opportunity to listen to the debate as promised, to answer questions as promised and to explain why in 2010, he was a statesman when he asked for 5%, and why we are today populists when we are looking for it. For this reason, we are asking the Croatian public for an individual statement from all MPs. Because of the historical record of who, why and with which arguments changes his views depending on whether he is in power and in position. I kindly ask all MPs and MPs to vote in favour of this motion for a decision because it is only the first phase of three steps as the Constitution in the Republic of Croatia changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30475	Thank you very much. I repeat, I am voting on the proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party has asked for an individual vote, so we will do so. I note that accepting the proposal requires a majority of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, that is 76 votes for the least. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Please honouring Jadranka Blažević, secretary of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, to hold the call of the representatives individually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30476	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Ante Babić - for...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30477	Please engage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30478	Vedran Babić - v, Branko Bačić, Lidija Bagarić - v, Jakša Baloević - za, Martina Banić, Petar Baranović, Milorad Batinić - v, Nevenka Bečić, Josip Benčić - v, Davor Bernardić - v, Goran Beus Richembergh, Vladimir Bilek, Boris Blažeković – v, Valter Bolunčić – za, Josip Borić, Biljana Borzanić – v, Dinko Božnić, Davor Bozinović, Dinko Burić – za, Dragan Crnogoorac, Ljiljana Cvetović – v, Igor Češević – Za, Petar Čuljak, Tomislav Čuljak, Marjanj Žaljak, Želj, Žaržažažažan Žarić – Žarić – Žarić – Željić – Za Želj, Želj, Želj, Željić, Željić, Željić, Željić, Želj, Žižižup, Žiž, Žiž, Žiž Žižup, Žiž, Žižupž, Žižupž, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, V. Tomislav Karamarko, Željko Kerum, Ivan Klarin – v, Željko Kolar – v, Igor Kolman – v, Zlatko Komadina – v, Ana Komarić Devčić – v, Sonja König – v, Jadranka Kosor, Boris Kovačić – v, Josip Kregar – v, Ante Kutija, Josip Lek – v, Dragutin Lesar – za, Ana Lovrin, Franjo Lucić, Šime Lučin – v, Marija Lugarić – v, Ivica Mandić – v, Dujomir Marasović, Mladen Marelić – v, Natalija Martinčević, Damir Matljan – v, Frano Matušić, Jasen Mesić, Zvon Milas, Stjepan Milinković, Darko Milinović, Domagoj Ivan Mirić – Željović – Željko Mirković – Anti, Damir Mirković, Davorkić – against Mlakić, Mlakić – Mlač, Mlač, Mlač, Mlak, Mlač, Mlak, Mlak, M. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30479	Repeat those who have not responded.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30480	Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Branko Bačić, Martina Banić, Petar Baranovic, Nevenka Bečić, Goran Beus Richembergh – v., Vladimir Bilek – v., Josip Borić, Dinko Božnnjak, Davor Bozinović, Dragan Crnogoorac, Petar Cobanković, Tomislav Čuljak, Martina Dalic, Josip Djakić, Višnja Fortuna, Sunčana Glavak, Dragutin Glava, Ivan Grubišić no excuse. Nedzad Hodžić – v, Mile Horvat, Branko Hrg, Tomislav Ivić, Perica Jelečević, Branko Juričev Martinčev, Damir Kajin, Božidar Kalmeta, Tomislav Karamarko, Željko Kerum, Jadranka Kosor, Ante Kulušić, Branko Kutija, Ana Lovrin, Franjo Lucić, Dujomir Marasović, Natala Martinčević, Frano Matušić, Jasen Mesić, Zvonko Milas, Stjepan Milinković, Darko Milinović, Ivan Domagoj Milošević, Andrej Plenković, Đuro Popijač, Milorad Pupovac, Davor Ivo Stier, Đica Sumrak, Ivan Šantek, Vladimir Šeks, Ruža Tomašić, Branko Vukelic, Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-07-0.u30481	We're waiting for the result. The result of the individual vote: there were 28 votes in favour of the motion for a decision, against the motion for a decision there were 76 votes of MPs. I find that no decision on accession has been taken to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This is how we exhausted the vote at today's session. We will stop working and continue on Tuesday 12 February at 9.30 p.m. with a agenda half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. Have a safe trip, rest until Monday when I ask for the sessions of the working bodies to be held. Thank you very much.
