ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48537	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. This is the first time we've had anything that should have existed years ago. The first initiative was in this direction a few years ago when the Assembly supported the initiative that once a year the Prime Minister or Prime Minister addressed the Croatian Parliament and submitted a report on the state in the state, in general, of the state, orally. I have a text here that I'm going to read. The text will be divided, divided so that it stays and some clear clue of this. This is an attempt to be significantly longer in a relatively reasonable time than how many of my speeches usually last, saying everything that's important in the country, to point out some directions and of course not to run away from the problem, to talk about problems. So, ladies and gentlemen, Croatia has achieved all its strategic political goals over the past 22 years. The country is defended and internationally recognised, free, democratic and secure with the highest standards of protection of minority rights. All Croatian citizens, as well as Croatian citizens outside Croatia, contributed to this difficult and long journey, each in line with their options and their decisions. Thousands have given the most and most valuable, and for 1702 persons missing or violently taken, Croatia continues to search hard and will not stop. Croatia is a stable and respected member of the NATO alliance. Our armed forces despite the economic crisis from day to day are increasingly capable and modern in every way. Croatia chaired the Security Council, Croatian soldiers proudly and courageously participate in UN and NATO missions in some of the most dangerous places in the world. Our thoughts are with them. Croatia is also a regional leader, however anyone interprets it. We developed good neighbourly relations in the region and strengthened the international position. I can conclude that for a long time, maybe we've never been in a more favourable position. On July 1st this year, our country also became a full member of the EU. I stress this very fullness because in front of our society, I hope for a short period of time, a period of awareness of this fact of fullness. Croatia owes no one anything to enter the Union, we have changed better and met the high criteria that we are directly required of. No one gave us anything. As no one has given us anything in the past two decades or before, we ask that someone give us something. We ask, however, only to be respected, we ask that our rights, our efforts, and our attitudes be respected. We insist and insist that Croatia sees itself as an equal partner and associate, because this is our obligation and I see it as my job. After joining the Union, our only remaining strategic task is to create conditions for a more comfortable, more content and secure life for all our people, citizens, and for the dissemination of human rights, individual freedoms and reasoned dialogue. Croatia is a country of working, competent, creative, open and ambitious people. A well-organised and economically prosperous country, a country whose stability certainly will not be able to shake unfavourable financial winds from other markets, as has been the case so far. The basic assumption that this would be achieved is that both in Brussels and in all other influential places and addresses, we are in favour of the interests of our citizens and our countries. Be assured that we will do so and make sure that we succeed. Of course, we're not unrealistic and we don't lack self-critics. Our economic situation remains difficult, first of all, thanks to the irresponsibility that was the most important feature of Croatian state policy in one period of the past decade. Here's what just in three important indicators was the outcome of the years-long irresponsibility of some previous governments. The indifference found in 2011 was 41 billion and 700 million kuna. In September 2012, the liquidity reached as much as 44 billion and 600 million kuna. Today it is 35 billion and 500 million kuna, and it has a further tendency to reduce, because among other things, we have introduced the Institute of Pre-price settlements, legally shortened payment deadlines and allowed businesses and citizens to reprogram tax debts. They reached, and the country's unfulfilled commitments at the end of the 11th amounted to more than 2 and a half billion kuna. Over the past two years, these debts have been paid in full or regulated by special agreements. The Ministry of Finance has established a fully orderly fulfilment of the financial obligations to all the users of the state budget. In December 2011, we found 205,000 workers who had not paid their salaries, nor were they paid what might be worse. Today there are 70,000 of them which, regardless of the significant reduction, are still inaccessible too much. Amendments to the Penal Code, non-payment of wages and non-payment of contributions have made them saddened, have become a criminal offence threatened by a prison sentence of up to three years. But let us look at the current situation, unlike some other topics, when it comes to finance and government, the past is obviously not interested in many. So, the gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2013 is actually smaller by 0.7% compared to the same quarter 2012. According to the Croatian National Bank, GDP increased by 0.2% in the second quarter of this year compared to the first quarter. When we look at all 28 countries of the Union, we will see that Croatia is about the centre of the list according to the achieved GDP. It also encourages Croatia's slight rise in the international competitiveness list from 81 to 75 seats. Still below expectations and our hopes. It is not encouraging that our public debt will likely reach 190 billion kuna by the end of the year. Last year, public debt was increased by 21.5 billion kuna, of which 9 billion and 200 million kuna were related to the assumed credit obligations of the shipyard. About that later. In 2012, we managed to reduce the budget deficit by more than 4 billion kuna, i.e. For about 30%, it amounted to slightly more than 11 billion kuna. Almost nine billion kunas fell to interest. We planned to keep the budget deficit at last year's level, with 10 billion and 200 million kuna referring to the service of credit obligations previously agreed by previous governments, not one. It's gonna be hard, but we're gonna fight to get as close as we can to that plan. For comparison in 2011, the budget deficit was 15.5 billion kuna, and of which, under quotes, 7 billion and 600 million kuna went to interest. Look at that ratio today. I'd almost dare say that we've managed to bring the current expenditure in line with the revenues, but we're not making the revenues covered by the credit obligations. It will be one of the priorities of future times, and this will also be more discussed below. In July 2013 compared to July 2012, industrial production calendarly adjusted marked a 4.1%) decline. The decline in industrial production in the Union at an annual level is 1.7% while a 2.1% decline is registered in the euro area covering 17 Union members. In addition to privatising three major shipyards, the Ministry of Economy is making great efforts, resources and legal initiatives to encourage the processing industry because this segment is extremely important for the recovery of industrial production and exports. Generally different forms of aid and incentives for industrial production as well as attracting foreign investment in the industrial sector are our most intense activity. In June 2013, there was a decline in construction activity at an annual level of 2.2%. The decline in construction in the Union was 1.5%, and in the euro area, EU cream in some ways was 3%. In July, trade traffic increased to a small percentage compared to July 2012 by 4.8% nominally, including inflation 1.7% realistically. Since the beginning of this year, July is the third month in a row that saw a real increase in traffic in trade to a little relative to the same month of the previous year. In the period from January to June 2013, our goods exports dropped by 4.4% compared to the same period last year, while imports increased by 0.1%. The external trade deficit from January to June 2013 increased by 5.8% compared to the same period last year. I know these numbers can be tiring, but the concentration is necessary. Because in the end there's a lot in numbers, not all of them. In August of this year, we had registered 313 thousand 675 unemployed, a rate of 18% of the working population. At EU level, the rate is around 11%. Therefore, the issue of employment is at the heart of all government measures and actions. Ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues and colleagues are the main course of government activities in the wake of the crisis. All four are almost equally important because only positive results in all four directions and on their gloves can give rise to a better standard for our people and regulated orderly state finances. The first is the introduction of order, the second is the consolidation of state finances, the third is the restructuring and rationalisation of the state and public sector and the last quarter of the production, adoption and implementation of recovery measures and new growth of the economy. The first direction is to introduce order and respect laws in all areas and in all activities. The finance ministry, with its administrations and services, has contributed to a more orderly collection of taxes and tax debts. When we formed the government, we found 51 billion kunas of tax debts. About half of this huge amount was related to the debts of active taxpayers while the other half was classified as heavily charged debts. By various methods, from public publication of the list of tax debtors to the possibility of reprogramming and payment of the tax debt, the Tax Administration has charged about half a billion kuna so far from the debtor. The approved requirements for reprogramming tax debts amount to around 3 billion kuna and a little less than 3 billion kuna for citizens. That's not much, but it didn't work out in that direction at all. A fiscalisation project was launched, first for the catering and tourism sectors. In July this year, the catering traffic showed 64.4% higher than in July last year. I'm going to repeat this number 64.4% higher than in July last year. In the first six months of this year, hosts and merchants reported 7 billion kunas more than in the same period last year, nearly a billion euros. This tells every smart man, woman and man everything. Nine months ago, the Financial Business Act and pre-departure settlement entered into force. It is an instrument that enables entrepreneurs to be restructured in order to restore liquidity and insolvency and preserve work, of course in agreement with creditors. Up to today, about 5,000 business entities have made requests to open a pre-demand settlement procedure. Their total debts amount to 48.5 billion kuna, and they employ almost 42,000 workers. So far, 820 requirements that have been difficult or worth 14 billion and 400 million kunas that stand behind or are facing 14 thousand jobs, 14 thousand people's fates, possibly families. To introduce even more order in financial operations early next year, the Tax Administration will be reorganised according to the regional and functional model. The customs evening is organised and fully aligned with European regulations and procedures and acts equally within the customs union. By the end of this year, we expect in this House the vote of the Financial Business and Accounting Act of non-profit organisations. According to available data, some 10,000 organizations that submitted financial reports made 4.5 billion kunas of revenue from a billion kuna public sources. This means that more than three billion kunas remain out of any financial control. In the next few months, measures will be implemented to further increase the transparency of public money spending, as well as the transparency of governance in general. Transparency in the communication of decisions, a decision that only the Government can approve for specific engagement projects so-called The PR agency or public relations agency is causing frustration between individuals and some of the particular interests but also suppresses old habits in the waste of public money. That state won't let the parties pay. I expect transparency in governance from both local and regional self-government. Croatia will soon receive the first Commissioner for Information. We are also introducing integrated and sophisticated information systems that will finally combine payments to all budget users. This specifically relates to salaries paid to employees in the state and public sector, to the health and education system and to the payment of social benefits on a variety of grounds, at a very high level. The introduction of order and law, however, is not reserved only for the Ministry of Finance, it deals with all the ministries and all the state bodies in its district because we have found a mess everywhere and a reluctantly reserved law enforcement. I'm only going to point out here what I see as the most important thing. The Ministry of Administration has completed making registers of voters, it's the basis of our democracy, it's the foundation of trust, a fundamental document that we haven't had in an orderly and legal form in over 20 years. The job was not completed, the Law on residence opened the possibility of field checks, residence checks, but in elections for the European Parliament, Croatia had nearly 800,000 voters less than in the previous parliamentary elections. No one threw those people out. The construction and spatial planning ministry has completed a major and important project to collect requests for legalisation of wild construction. According to current data, 821 000 and 900 requests were filed for the law of illegal facilities. The government will insist that both local and state administrations are further committed to resolving these requirements as quickly as possible. We are also uniting the process of issuing building permits. In short, we simplify and speed up procedures, make them better and more transparent. The introduction of order is made possible through information in the social care system which now recognizes the really necessary ones who sometimes cheat on the system, but actually steal the state. Further networking of the property and income databases will give an even more realistic picture and enable a more transparent and efficient but also more rational system of social benefits. By updating the social benefits list, it has been found that there are 81 rights, assistance or privileges, all of which are achieved separately. Instead of part of these fees, the law will introduce a minimum wage guarantee institute. This is a new form of social compensation guaranteeing that each year, according to the means available, it will prescribe the amount for which every person with unworthy income and property, insufficient income and property will be entitled to meet the needs of life, and we will clearly define the property price. The introduction of a single body of art will also introduce order in the process of identifying disability. The Ministry of Defence published the Registrar in electronic form. It is a multi-functional platform that has helped resolve status issues and transparency when awarding apartments and scholarships. Negative consequences for which no, there are none, but more transparent and orderly states. The second course of consolidation of state finances. I said earlier that this year we're going to have a difficult time keeping the budget deficit and the public debt at the planned level of around 11 billion kuna. The reason is and again I repeat firstly in the dramatic increase in credit obligations previously agreed. In addition, in this year, with 3 billion and 300 million kuna, we have recovered hidden debts in the health system. About as much budget money has been paid for the first time in the EU budget, it is a fixed obligation, as well as for new costs in the restructuring process of shipbuilding again. Also this year, we have introduced a dynamic payment of incentives to agriculture, and this also affects the current appearance of the budget deficit. When it comes to budget deficits and public debt, it is irrefutable that we will enter the excessive deficit procedure as practically all EU countries except for two at some point. The question is, are we going to come up with a consolidation plan ourselves or are we going to wait for the European Commission? We are not hiding under the rug our deficit, inherited debts that have been hidden over the past years, and our commitment is to go with a package of measures that have been intensively being prepared over the past months and will be presented in principle in the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy these days. Structural reforms and the reduction of budgetary expenditures are our obligation to EU rules, but the primary reason is that we believe that for our own sake and for our future development, we need to introduce state finances into peaceful waters and have common sense criteria that were not before. To achieve the goal, which is to reduce the deficit below 3% in the next 3 years, we will have to combine intervention measures with reforms as it always goes. The countries that did this in time as Germany over 10 years ago are now relatively stable, but relatively stable. In the end, reforms should lead to a permanent stabilisation of expenditure, which will also ensure a reduction of deficits. How much we will need to discuss this with the Commission. But the key condition for the consolidation of the budget is, of course, economic recovery and growth which should contribute to strengthening the revenue side of the budget. That process won't be quick. In a short time, public debt can be reduced by privatising or concessioning part of state property. It is especially important that we have activated the so far abandoned state property in the tourist sector and that we have practically already created conditions for investment in the Kukara complexes near Duilovo near Split, i.e. in Split. By the end of the year, we will create all assumptions for the privatisation of the State Tourism Portfolio. Also, by the end of the year, the State Office for State Property Management will complete preparations for the privatisation of minority and non-strategic state stakes in companies. By the way, Croatia has for the first time a body that has a clear overview of state property, which has a plan to seriously and rationally manage the property. So far, everything has been left to the verse, the improvisation that has led us to where it has already led us. The government will sell its majority stakes. I stress the majority stakes in Croatia's insurance and in the Croatian postal bank. We're in the privatisation process of HZ CARGO. The government has selected consultants for possible highway monetization and we are confident that this can be a good job for Croatia but of course before that we will see what we can get, how much we can get first of all and make a decision. We're looking for a strategic partner for Croatia airlines and we're on our way to put this company on a healthy footing after 20 years of losses recovered from the budget and from taxpayers. She's probably the only one in the region who has that chance. We are also interested in entering a strategic partner in ACI, a network of our marinas, so that this company can develop in the right way, invest and dominate in the Adriatic. Don't believe those who say we're selling out the country, don't believe it. The company that has swallowed billions of kunas so far and your kunas are no national treasure, which we have to understand, it's a burden. We are bringing into order state finances in a way that we deeply believe is socially balanced and economically sustainable. We need to cut public debt so we can serve our debts more favourably. Debts as we know should be paid back. We want to discuss the preservation and increase of labour rights or further tax discharge of citizens and entrepreneurs. But while we are struggling with budget deficits and enormous credit obligations, some requirements for increasing or retaining material rights are simply not realistic and should be said. State finances are simply strained and we are taking all rational, reasonable and responsible measures to change that. This has never been the case and will never be questioned by the level of social rights of the most exposed categories of the population and will never be questioned. And the opposite. We reform and improve the social benefits system in order to make the most of it really necessary. Respected pensioners, the payment of workers' pensions has never been questioned and will never be questioned. Although we must reform it, our pension system is stable. There will never be questionable invalidity pensions and benefits and we will maintain a relatively high level of health care. There will be no threat to the right to free education of those who wish to learn as well as state aid in the education of the socially endangered and deprived. We will protect all the sustainable rights of defenders and victims of the Homeland War and continue to take care equally of the brave people who deserve it but who will not be deceived. We haven't even done it yet. And someone liked it or not. We will continue to insist on rationality, social justice and solidarity. At the beginning of the term of office, we abolished the right to retire under privileged conditions for state officials. We will now propose reducing pensions that are more than average salaries and are not obtained from work, so according to special regulations, with the special protection of 100% people with disabilities, children of deceased defenders and those who simply have to be protected 100%. All others receiving preferential pensions under special regulations will have to bear the burden of the crisis. Labour pensions, pensions from work, so those classic clean pensions are protected. The third direction is to restructure and rationalise the state and public sectors. As I mentioned before, we privatized Brodosplit, May 3rd and Brodotrogir. For 20 years, these industries simply swallow taxpayer money. Meanwhile, a number of other industries worked by people, mothers, and fathers who also fed children and paid in the budget failed and closed. And someone will have to explain to Croatian citizens why something is more valuable and less valuable. I have problems with it, I love both north and south of Croatia, but I have a principled problem. In the end, this is going to cost a lot, and it's going to cost a lot. Because the structure of the shipbuilding was a difficult job which has not yet been completed and which will for some time financially burden our budget, it's about billions as you've heard. For one sector, that was our choice and we'll do it all the way. It's the job the state has decided to do. If it fails, if it fails, we're all responsible. We got into this business in good faith but also because there was no other reasonable way. And I believe in a positive outcome. In all ministries, agencies, state and public enterprises, the restructuring and rationalisation of business takes place intensively. The furthest distanced in the Croatian railways, post office, Ministry of Defence, Croatian highways and highways Rijeka-Zagreb, Croatian electricity, Croatian waters and Croatian forests. But it's just the beginning of a job. We financially rehabilitate and reform the devastated health system that we need to make extremely rational and functional in order to maintain in the expensive systems that are the richest countries financially exhausting the existing level of law. We created legal assumptions for the rationalisation of the business of county hospitals that were so far within the hospital sector were the biggest debt generators and the model that was most difficult to explain in view of their price. Rationalisation of hospitals means that we will adapt them to the real needs and quality of treatment. In a country where a car usually gets from the farthest point to the best hospital in less than two hours, only more. The highest quality must be in such centres and beyond these centers what therefore saves a man's life, emergency care, maternity care, and several disciplines without which no narrow environment simply can. It's a rational business, that's how they work, that's how advanced countries work, that's how countries that are twice and three times as rich as Croatia's population. Only by uniting public procurement in health care has so far saved 380 million kunas. By developing projects of state without paper and E citizens, we will simplify our lives with red tape. By networking the databases owned by the authorities of the state administration, citizens will no longer have to deliver papers from the counter to the counter, so that you have to remove your wallet, and you have your ID card. It's as if the I.D. isn't proof that you're a Croatian citizen. For 20 years, I've watched this amazing procedure, and I don't know if it's still in effect. She insulted me in '91. as a citizen. The fourth, most important and most difficult direction of our work is to create, adopt and implement recovery measures and a new growth of the economy. That direction kind of stretches in six directions, six sleeves towards the same goal. The first is public investment, the second is the removal of administrative barriers to direct investment, the third is direct incentives to the private sector, the fifth European funds, the very important thing and the sixth, well-organised and functional economic diplomacy. Let's take it in a row. Under a public investment. In the first six months in the public sector, 4.5 billion kuna investment was realised, up 30% from last year. The co-ordination for public investment in the government is dedicated to addressing problems and obstacles to the implementation of projects in total value estimated at around 22 billion kuna. Construction of internal connections in Split port has been completed, cranes are placed on the container terminal Brajdica in Rijeka port, shares of St. Kuzam Križić on the river bypass, a connecting road and tunnel of St. Elijah, as well as shares of Plano-split on the Split bypass. It has been defined as one of the most important and major investments in Croatia for the next 10 years, from the border with Hungary to the port of Rijeka, as a priority direction for investment in rail transport. Designing started, money is European. Investments in rail infrastructure are being prepared worth more than 25 billion kuna, as I said to most of the European Union funds more than 80%. This will be seen directly by the citizens, but as I said, our approach is not populist. This is important for Croatia, this is a very important thing for Croatia. By the end of 2013, 2 billion kuna are planned to be invested in the renovation, maintenance and construction of new railways, so by the end of this year, almost fourfold increase compared to last year. A contract has been signed with a concessionaire for the construction of Zagreb airport and our side has been met, but all the obligations of the concession contract, so the construction can begin tomorrow. Zagreb airport has always been decent, not big, because there are five international airports in Croatia and not all like Rige in Latvia or other cities. But Zagreb needs a modern building and a modern terminal. Investment in the water economy in this year will reach a billion and 500 million kuna. It is quite certain that after 30 years, new large and medium energy projects will happen that will make Croatia more energy independent. Maybe not completely independent, but much more independent. Some of the largest corporations in the world are also interested in these projects. The Ministry of Agriculture is launching increasing irrigation projects of agricultural surfaces because it is one of the biggest and most difficult pains of our agricultural production. We are relying on this and we will rely even more on European funds and of 2.5 million hectares of available agricultural areas, so the general assessment, at least one million hectares, is among the watering priorities. In agriculture we need to understand simply deinstitutionalisation is the time for a completely new direction. As it has gone on so far, it is harmful, unproductive for everyone and most of all for farmers. I stress that none of these investments, just like none of the private investments, will happen beyond respecting the highest standards of environmental protection and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, have developed all of the professional mechanisms for the adoption of scientificly based processes on the threat of our environment. There have also been a lot of pressure on reducing the percentage of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is covered by the Naturase programme to protect the biodiversity of the European Union. That's the kind of thing that shows credibility. So, if we're a preserved country, it's normal, however complicated, that a relatively large part of Croatia is ecologically protected than it is Denmark that was industrialized 200 years ago and polluted to a good extent, and others overcrowded. Everything has its price, but the ultimate result for us can be very good. The co-ordination for private investment in only half a year since its establishment has resolved seven investment projects worth nearly half a billion euros. The resolution process includes 13 other projects worth 766 billion euros. These investments will create thousands of new jobs, thousands, not tens of thousands as much as we need. In the first half of the year we had significantly more direct investments than in 2012, 460m euros per 80m euros, which is very low but the whole year in the region was like this. Speaking of last year, Croatia attracted a billion and $250m of foreign direct investment last year. This is data from the UN Annual Report on Development, which Croatia once again positions as the most attractive country in the region for foreign investment. That is the data, but in itself it does not satisfy us too much because we believe that our achievements are outside the region. The portfolio of the newly established Investment and Competitiveness Agency currently holds 79 projects with an estimated value of nearly 7 billion euros. Estimated project value. Until their realization, of course, there is sometimes a long way to go. They're mostly in tourism and energy and industry. It'll mean another ten thousand jobs if those projects come true. It's mostly up to us. There's a strategic investment project law in the procedure, you know, most of it supported it, some of it did, so they didn't, so they did, we'll see. The thesis has been completely missed that we have so favoured the sale of national resources. This law is necessary to speed up procedures at all levels of administration in the preparation of projects. This law will make us even more competitive in regional and global frameworks. There are plenty of local bureaucratic barriers and barriers. I'm always for local self-government, for its greater financial and maneuvering freedom, but when it comes to major state projects, then in Croatia which is a small country of 4 million inhabitants must know who has the last word. It's the government. It doesn't have to be SDPs or HDZs, it's the government, because otherwise the government can't take responsibility for the country's economic development and we can't be hostages of special interests and regional groups. That's not right. Otherwise don't ask us for results. This House of Commons has adopted on the government's proposal an Investment Encouragement Act, which is another law that is one of the more stimulating in this part of Europe. We directly stimulate the opening of each new job by means of significant funds and release employers from the obligation to pay for contributions for two or three years. There are even greater tax and municipal reliefs when it comes to investments of more than 3m euros, and these are still small investments. We have prepared all the documents for renting hundreds of thousands of hectares of state agricultural land. We'll do it in an extremely transparent and fair way not relatively in a municipality in the shade of a tree. In an extremely transparent and strict way. Tax policy. We reduced the health contribution by two percentage points. So we returned about 2 billion kuna to the economy. The fact is, we've abolished the profit tax that's being reinvested. We directly damaged the revenue side of the budget, but we abolished the reinvested profit tax that remains in the corporate company. So we freed private companies, if that's what they want, a billion and 200 million kuna for further investment or for sharing shareholders, so let them pay taxes. We abolished or reduced a number of parafiscal duties, which meant an additional 675 million kuna to the economy. We've increased the threshold for entering the VAT system to 230,000 kuna. I think that's what we all agreed on. That was even the HDZ proposal in the campaign. At the beginning of this year, VAT on catering and tourism was reduced from 25% to 10%. That measure was not without dilemma because you are guessing and choosing the winners. It's borderline on the government's economic action towards the doctrine I believe in. So the government shouldn't choose winners. This is a direct favor for one sector. The decision was political and made in the belief that it is in the national interest because it is ultimately or at the beginning of the whole story and is politics. The measure has made Croatian tourism more competitive on the international market. This is confirmed by this year's tourist results in all parameters, and I particularly point out that 17% of more workers were employed in the first 7 months of this year compared to the same period in tourism last year. These are not particularly well-paid jobs, and they are as intensive as the whole activity and may not represent the crown jewel, but every job is important, even if someone from Međimurje or Slavonia works for 4 months in Dalmatia or Istria. The goal is to work all year long where he lives, so in Međimurje and Slavonia. Tax cuts also foster investment in the tourism sector in the long term, which has waited 14 years for the move. This year, 2 and a half billion kuna has already been invested in tourism, which is an increase of 236% compared to 211 and all our further efforts will go in line with real opportunities towards tax redistribution. Under d) direct incentives to private companies. In addition to everything I stated by direct means, we supported the survival of private companies, and the retention of jobs and production. No money, no recovery. The whole of Europe, at least the southern part of Europe is under what's called a credit crunch simply medium and small enterprises can't access affordable loans, the rates are terrible and they're choking them. Croatia is no exception, and Sweden and Germany and Denmark are a story for themselves, of course. Hence our insistence on stronger entry and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, and HAMAG Invest, who in the past and this year have taken a significant part of the risk and are intensively helping to restructure and encourage the economy. So in the last year through the entrepreneurial impulse, it's a program, it's been allocated about 300 million kuna, and in this year it's going to reach 700 million kuna. So, a billion kuna support for entrepreneurs and craftsmen. At the same time, HBOR approved about 15 billion kuna of favourable loans. In addition to a strong increase in HBOR credit activity last year, for the first time since the crisis, more loans for investments were granted than loans intended to finance trade funds. Anyone who's ever dealt with it or been close to it knows what the difference is. The same trend continues in this year and no less important. The HBOR provides specific support to our exporters through the guarantee lending programme and the insurance of export claims. In the past and this year, HBOR supported Croatian exports with a total of 12 and a half billion kuna. So between investment in crafts, which is a life-saving belt and usually with several holes and investment in investments is a huge difference. This second one's a surfboard, you just have to know how to surf. HAMAG Invest will issue five times more guarantees to entrepreneurship and crafts this year for projects of around 2 billion kuna compared to 2011. Through the amendments to the Company Act, we have made it possible to establish a simple society with limited liability for only 800 kuna. Due to the speed and simplicity of registration within 24 hours this form of company is ideal for start-up companies, i.e. for companies of younger and young entrepreneurs that test their entrepreneurial ideas. Since October 2012, to date, the number of simple companies established has reached almost 7,000. Of course, most will fail, but it's this creative-destructive force of entrepreneurship and capitalism. There's a chance. We will use it and use mechanisms that should encourage the banking sector to more generous and favourable lending of companies. I was talking about this credit crunch, or pressure, and that Italian companies, by tax, come to credit at 9% interest and German at 3%. In a situation like this, you know who's ahead of you. That's a big problem. The state will continue, or will not stand by strong incentives and incentives for companies in those economic areas for which we will jointly assess that they have a serious export and investment perspective at one point that lasted 20 years we have assessed that this is a shipbuilding and we have done this job badly but we are still standing with it because it is simply a national consensus and it has not always been fair to everyone, not to the workers of Vartex, or Vartex, but to some other companies that have disappeared. People are out of work. We made a political decision. Was she just? It's not. Will she be useful to everyone in the end? I guess so. It will be a state investment in a better and longer-term more stable standard for our people. I remind you that today only 13% of our companies export their products or their knowledge. Under E, European funds. Already, in a year and nine months of the government's mandate, more projects within the EU's IPA programme have been agreed twice as much as during the entire 4-year term of last government, which is kind of logical because the process has moved on. So, in itself, it's not some absolute category, but it's saying something. Another 500m euros has been agreed, which is 80% of the funds we had available. As part of the European structural elements, 513m euros or 63% of available money were agreed. The use of IPARD funds is also significant and increased. These are the numbers I ask nicely for someone to try to challenge. It's not the very European summit, but it's at the top. The Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds is committed to fully raising the capacity of all state authorities and local self-government to access EU funds. Already, our administration is ready to use more than 9 billion euros in the multi-annual financial framework by 2020 if Parliament is finally confirmed by European funds in Brussels. Our goal is practically 100% of public investment from European funds. Some countries have succeeded, Slovakia, Estonia, Latvia. Thus, they do not burden their national budgets at all. Practically anything but the base money, so the one down payment, everything comes from Brussels. It's called success. Whoever doesn't work like that is throwing money away, who hasn't been able to make it happen. In particular, we will insist on the use of European funds in the areas of the water economy, irrigation, competitiveness of agriculture, capital intensive and labour intensive cultures that extend to more than 5 weeks of work per year, agriculture in general, energy, rural development – this is a Croatian village. The Croatian village is not only a tractor, but the quality of life in the country, it is rural development, there are billions available, and of course culture. As regards co-financing for the possible construction of the Peljega Bridge, I personally encouraged the project and I am engaged in it for a year and I cannot make any promises now. What I can warn you is that it does not cover Brussels with political letters from local self-government that are only seen as political pressure. It doesn't work. So, I'm optimistic. It is necessary to leave the profession to decide, all reasonable means speak about it, so it is a project from the EU, it is a regional project, it is not a county project. Don't write letters! I also appeal to you as individuals because it is perceived as a form of political pressure. These projects are ultimately determined by consultants and professions. We've given an incentive, and we have to stop there. Anything else, if you can say something informal in the context of a conversation, do it for the Croatian thing, don't write letters, it's wrong. It is precisely because I know this situation that I call on everyone who is either interested or involved in talking about the Pelješko Bridge to leave the decision to experts and consultants who will ultimately give the Commission the clearest answer which is the best solution, which implies that the solution is sought. So, in a few years' time, Dubrovnik will certainly no longer travel in the way it travels today, and how will we wait for a few weeks as well as for some other things. The last to laugh is usually not to laugh. Economic diplomacy, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs for the first time since its establishment has seriously devoted itself to creating a diplomatic and consular network in the service of the Croatian economy. Along with exporters, priority foreign markets are also defined. This is also one of the levers, not irrelevant. My colleagues and colleagues, this government is aware that there are probably some economic methods that might seem to show some faster results, but we cannot implement a policy that we do not believe and that we believe is wrong. And we don't believe in risky monetary expeditions and experiments, we don't trust those who claim that we should and can be even more in debt, we don't trust those who think we shouldn't return loans, we don't trust prophets who say that all our problems would be solved if we fired a few dozen thousands of people employed in the state administration and the public sector. It is our principled commitment that the process of the necessary reforms of the state administration goes to a greater extent with the recovery and growth of the private economic sector and with the settlement of not exactly the state of our public finances. We do as much as we can to help heal private companies, they are, in fact, the most important. And we are confident that we will soon be able to do more. In short, to a reasonable limit we are fighting to preserve almost every job, I say to a reasonable limit, regardless of whether it is a place in the state, public or private sector. I repeat, commitment to this goal must, to a large extent, slow the growth of indicators in some economic segments. But I don't have to quote examples from the past and the present so we can understand how the statistical growth of GDP sometimes presents an illusion, and unfortunately it doesn't necessarily mean that the widest layers of citizens live better, that once an economist paints himself that when the tide comes, all the ships grow, and not just some, but some stay stranded, live better, more pleasant and safer. Only full-time employment, and we almost never had that in our history even in socialism, that's fiction, that was fake full-time. Only full employment guarantees happy people and happier societies. That's the only goal. The Ministry of Labour and the pension system continuously implements active employment policy measures. So far, 43,000 people have gone through that program. Nearly 50 million kunas of grants for employment have been allocated to projects completed so far. It is important for more and more young people to enter active employment programmes and it is even more important that a good number of them find the first job. Of course, among young people, we still have one of the highest unemployment rates in Europe. And that's one of the facts we can't close our eyes to. It's a challenge. However, leaving the circle of government debt and the budget deficit is not feasible without reforming labour legislation and suspension or reducing part of the current material rights of employees in the state and public services in the public sector, including the already made reduction in gross wages by 3%, this happened. It was already done and it was the minimum procedure we had to reach out to. At the same time, at the beginning of the term of office, we adopted a regulation that prevents payment of salaries without payment of contributions. A certificate of maturity and not paid salary has become an executive document. Regulation of the breach of the legal personality that many itches and in the media, in order to prevent the irresponsible among entrepreneurs from putting in place new companies and transferring what is worth unpunished and impunity saving themselves, leaving workers and creditors at risk. In addition, my government increased the minimum wage by 170,00 kuna to 2.984 kuna gross. Taxation of income increased the amount of basic monthly personal deduction from 1,800 to 2,200 kuna. Along with changing tax classes, this resulted in an increase in net wages, small ones. A more balanced distribution of the tax burden has been made to those who make major receipts. For the same reason, taxation of pensions from abroad which, of course, some did not like, as well as taxation of dividends and share in profits were introduced, which are practically all European countries and the United States. Workers employed by private companies face incomparably difficult blows to their rights. We don't want the rights that workers today have in private companies to be a role model or a model to which we strive, no. But at this stage, I also have to tell state and public sector employees and trade unions that we have to be extremely rational and cold-blooded in making a budget for next year. I also think of the savings that we will achieve by investing in a system of preferential pensions, I also think of the separation of some of the activities from the budgetary financing system which have made all smart and successful administrations, and there are such activities in the health system, education, justice, social care and science. For example, the separation of this activity has long been successfully implemented in the defence system. The fundamental principles that we will be guided so far are to avoid social breakdowns and further decomposition because there is a question at the heart of our policy about the dynamics of reform and change. We need dynamics to be consistent with the opportunities and properties of our economy and our society and so on in everything we do. And you're wrong again, but it's the main model. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't like to use that word too often because the word strategy doesn't know how many times I've mentioned it, but I have to say it three times in the strategy of education, science and technology is the strategy of all strategies. The document was referred to a public debate several days ago, we propose nine years of basic education and many methodological steps. Soon we will come out with the innovation strategy 2014-2020. It's an extension of the course course in elementary school and a series of things proposed by the profession of nearly 130 free people, so without any fee politically I guess mostly independent from the entire social spectrum, we'll see what it brings us. It's the first time we've had something like that. Our greatest and unforgivable sin would be to deny modern education for generations to come and that are already here. All we're trying to do is make our schooling both basic and middle and high quality, more competitive, more rational and flexible. It's the same with science. The Zagreb University was among 400 in the world, it is a very vague term, but 400 it is 3 to 3.5% of the world's universities, so the Zagreb University is between 3 and 3.5% of the world's universities and yet we are not, and the area for progress is huge. And it also says that the university really calls itself anything. We have a university in the world, that in the world a university is called anything. We have a university and our job is to help people who work there and the countries become a place of excellence in the region. We have conditions for that. I mean not only Zagreb, but first of all Zagreb. We will provide free study to anyone who really wants to gain knowledge, not just extend certain privileges 3, 4 or 5 years, and we will best stimulate them. The point of these reforms is to raise and educate at all levels people who will thus satisfy their internal interests and needs but to ensure their existence, to come out of our universities competent and freely thinking young people, to come out people who, among other things, develop healthy in both spiritual and physical and social terms. And that's why we're proposing health and civic education in schools, and I believe we'll all end up with the team. It's a model of both Austria and southern Germany, it's a model of civilised Western Europe. Dear MPs, distinguished MPs, when I asked 20 months ago from this same place for you to trust the government, among other things, I said that one of our main goals is that everyone who has not sinned against the law sleeps peacefully in this country. Yes, yes, mayors, mayors, opposition officers don't fear politically motivated police persecution if they know they've been working under the law. I would ask you and ask you then to remember my words because this is an attitude that is profoundly different from that in the past and from some past governments from today's opposition, today I ask you from the same place to see the difference and not to underestimate, as you have seen in our current mandate of states and society can develop successful anti-corruption mechanisms and beyond daily political motives and pressures. That's why in this speech so little about the anti-corruption struggle. Those who are the loudest are usually the most suspicious. We have left justice at every level to the full extent that belongs to it. That is why we want to change the Constitution and abolish the statute of limitations for politically motivated or for all serious murders, as there are several European states that serve as a role model for us. Let the judiciary, after all the criteria in Chapter 23 have passed and after we have entered the EU, face these crimes whoever the perpetrators are, and whoever they were, we know that. Let the judicial system be dealt with with with with with with responsibly. Only by doing so can it become the highest point of trust for all Croatian people. There's no other way. No extraditions and no escape from responsibility. And on that we'll all be tested. As regards the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, those who are not clear, our only motive for attempting to time-limit for crimes committed after 2002 was to protect people who participated in the Homeland War from possible criminal proceedings in any of the European Union countries. I think the proceedings for the crimes of a war crime for which there is universal judication. Anyone who doesn't agree with it doesn't know what universal judication is. That's what we've seen all over Europe. My duty as Prime Minister in this capacity is to warn you of that. It's like a rifle on the wall in the first act of drama, the Czechs or any other, in the second one will fire just watch. The Croatian judiciary needs to come up with evidence of every crime and punish the guilty. Every application and every vote of responsibility for war crimes should be investigated, but most of all in front of our judicial bodies because these are our crimes and our drama. And this is how it turns into a farce. Because of our approach, Croatia will not be damaged or sanctioned in any way because it cannot. We will launch this debate in Europe and point to the inequality of Member States in judicial co-operation, which is unfortunately recorded in the Framework Decision. Those who agree to this agree to be treated as a country of second order. That is how I see membership in the European Union, and I will fight for it if it takes even more stubborn and persistent. Because unfortunately in our country it's when you have attitude and tenacity in some things just another word for irrationality and stubbornness, call whatever you want, but the state isn't run the way it used to be. There's no compromise, there's no compromise. So, I think the well-intentioned and smart people have heard this all 10 times and they'll understand and in a few days you'll all be clear. It is our initiative on constitutional changes and the establishment of the Assembly's investigative commission that will enable the processing and lighting of some of the circumstances surrounding the most serious crimes and will draw some of the players who are now hiding behind the noise and noise scenes. Each of us will have a chance if he participated in such things, not as an perpetrator, but as a disguiser of these 20 years to say and to explain, since unfortunately, within 20 years, the judicial apparatus has done nothing, this is what the Assembly's investigation committees are doing. The moment the machine starts working, when the judicial apparatus starts to operate the parliamentary investigation committee is leaving. We have seen, in recent history, several parliamentary committees. For Viktor Lenac, he concluded that there are no elements to criminal responsibility. He was chaired by a senior HDZ member. The trucks were followed by a criminal procedure that hasn't been completed yet. Finally, for the INA, it was a large investigative commission that opened up many details, irregularities in the then government and resulted in an unexpected number of indictments against individuals and also against a political organisation. In that sense, without stating what concrete objectives are, because I don't know and I won't participate, the Assembly's investigation committee is not an accidental constitutional category, and it doesn't happen to serve in the most advanced democracies such as the American Commission for the Enlightenment of Truth. Let there be light. So, as you know very well. No one here protects criminals or criminals but wants the truth. We protect weaker and smaller and usually the one who has an unclean conscience... Hold the thief. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will never allow the Croatian judiciary to be considered inferior in any other judiciary. The European arrest warrant is also an instrument of a single space of freedom, justice and justice in the European Union rather than an instrument of priority for any country over another state. The idea is not to be tried in Croatia or Sweden but to be tried anywhere. Since it is about our drama, its final act should be in Croatia. And that's why I said earlier that the judiciary and the repressive apparatus must become the point of the highest trust of all our citizens. Yes, all citizens, no matter the nation, believe, believe, origin, social status and everything else that people sometimes make no difference. Today in this High House, I ask you again to remember how important and how important it is and how important it is for all demographic means to defend these achievements. Please understand that fighting for the highest standards in national minority rights for this country and this society is essentially as important as economic growth. [[Intruder: Bring the end of Mr. President.]] In Vukovar we place bilingual inscriptions on state and public institutions, we implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and we believe in this Law because this Law and such practice make our country a slightly better and slightly happier place. I haven't been able to read all this. We need to agree on a procedure if my time is strictly limited I will stop here, although I think it is in the interest of the Parliament and the Croatian public to hear my exposure to the end. [[Intruder: You have more final exposure to the esteemed president.]] We'll be sitting here for hours today. If you want to obstruct, anyway, if we think what I'm saying is bad and inconclusive, then give me a chance to get alone... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Mr. President...]] So don't be completely blinded by purely economic issues because life has a lot more dimensions. [[Thank you, too.]] Our lives, I'm sorry. Okay, if you tell me to hang up, I'll hang up now. [[/Intruder: Time's up. 20 final. 20 finals you have everything to say. It's all right. Thank you.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48538	Finish it, finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48539	Our lives, regardless of the economic situation, would be offended if we allowed the value of antifascism and secularism to be trampled. If we allow discrimination against the LGBT community and if we allow any minority group to be compromised or hit. I'm saying this because the public has recently become loud groups that openly question our civilization achievements and our constitutional order. In doing so, they are still called to the Constitution and to patriotism. We respect their right to differ, and we will respect it as long as it moves within the limits of the law. That is why, at the beginning of the term of office, we have made it possible for public gatherings and protests in Mark's square to change the law. But I promise and I ask you again to remember, we will use all the democratic means to break and suppress the spread of hate and expose political manipulations to human suffering and heroism. This is how we enrich our culture, which is experiencing European affirmation in many areas. Ladies and gentlemen, I will finish if we have any reasonable and minimally well-intentioned in the end it is perfectly clear that on this stage we cannot skip. Facing reality and high accounts of unresponsibility is always a painful process. Our future depends mostly on the proper recognition of our reality, our interests and our potentials, without any political or civilizational prejudice. In doing so, we need neither tutors nor sponsors, we need well-intentioned partners and true friends, and partnership and friendship as I understand them means equality. Remember that word. Thank you for your attention and patience. Long live Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48540	Thank you, Prime Minister. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the Annual Report of the Government shall be held a debate in which only club representatives can participate. A representative of clubs in the debate may speak for a maximum of 20 minutes, and a replica is not allowed in the debate. Following the discussion held, the Prime Minister shall submit a final statement which may take a maximum period of 20 minutes also in accordance with Article 129. Rules of Procedure. I can see my hand in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48541	Mr. President of the Parliament, I have a complaint on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club. In accordance with Article 248 of our Rules of Procedure as a democratic means by which we can only apply here in the assembly for a half-hour break because when we adopted the new Rules of Procedure of Article 128, which you mentioned, Article 129, we could not propose as an opposition in the Assembly that the Prime Minister also gave a written report with an oral report in accordance with Article 128. Well, since there's a lot of new information that we haven't met or heard from or heard from the House of Representatives, and we've heard from the Prime Minister, we're asking to meet a club of MPs and read a phonogram, the president's reports since he's given us a number of financial information we haven't had a chance to hear so far. So I ask you to set a half-hour break in accordance with Article 248(3). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48542	Okay. All right, the reason for the break is valid. We'll take a break but 20 minutes. I'll see you at 11:00 in the conference room. It's 10.40 o'clock. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] Time's up for a break. I call on the representative of the HDSSB Club of Honored Representative Josip Salapic to take a word on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48544	Thank you, President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I think the break was supposed to be half an hour like we asked. In 20 minutes, President-in-Office of the Parliament, we couldn't go back to the assembly. It is obvious that club representatives read a phonogram of the report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. At first, I'm not going to look back at the president's report for five minutes. We will do so on behalf of the HDSB representative club in accordance with Rules 128 and 129 of Procedure. But what we would like to remind you as the HDSSB's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, as an opposition which wanted to be constructive in the debate on the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, we believe that it should be repeated both for the sake of the Croatian public and for the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, which, over the past six months to the year, has been in a subordinate position compared to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, it is not the last word of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, nor of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in general, but of the last word of political, legal and every other word should be the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Parliament, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. It should not be forgotten, and it should be reminded that it is obvious and ruling, but also those who do not respect the representatives of the Croatian Parliament that our government is no matter who won the elections after the parliamentary elections, the government that stems from the Croatian Parliament. And until the elections are directly and directly elected by the prime minister and minister in the Croatian government, the last word should be the word of the Croatian Parliament. We thank you, President, for today, but today is an important day, we can say one of the most important days in the political life of the Republic of Croatia because for the first time, the Prime Minister is addressing the Parliament with an annual report, which is the decision of the Rules of Procedure and what we have made good. So it is good for the Prime Minister to address the Croatian Parliament. What we consider to be representatives of the opposition, the HDSB's Club of Representatives considers numerous reports and working bodies of the Assembly, parliamentary committees and competent ministries and all institutions in the system that rely on the Croatian Assembly and which have come under the Croatian Parliament's decisions to give their written reports to the Croatian Parliament. Let those reports even stand a year after procedure and procedure until they come to the agenda of our debate. What we think is not well important is for the Prime Minister to address representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. But if there is no written report, and the material is found in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament for a week as it has been announced, I do not know who can, based on all the information that the Prime Minister has given, and they are for comparison, given that some views are, and we will say this in our debate, will obviously not agree between the opposition and the rulings. However, time should be given to at least those economic topics, the themes of the judiciary, the topics of agriculture in a more quality way of preparation. Then the debate is constructive and then the dignity of the Croatian Parliament returns. What was wrong was not our right to discuss the Rules of Procedure. Even representatives of the executive authority who emerged from this House and received the mandate thanks to the majority in the Croatian Parliament announced changes to the Rules of Procedure. According to us, that's what the President of the Parliament should have done then. He is the president of all of us MPs and MPs and he is the one who announces changes to the Rules of Procedure, not executive power, ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We appeal to the future of political in Croatia, that this report should be found in writing, that the competent authorities and committees in the Assembly should give their opinion, and that we as representatives who have given you as a majority of the trust of your government, and we as an opposition are not someone who will predictably say that something in Croatia is good or not good, but to restore the dignity and honor to the Croatian Parliament. It is also the duty of the President of the Parliament and all of us club representatives in the Croatian Parliament because it is not good to act exclusively so that this debate that will take an hour and a half to predict today and that each of us is limited to talking 20 minutes without replication. If you voted as a majority, we used our right to remind once again that the Croatian Government came out of the Croatian Parliament, that the most representative body of citizens in the Republic of Croatia is the Croatian Parliament and that the last word of the Croatian Parliament as the highest body of political in the Republic of Croatia. And therefore this break, and therefore this is another invitation for you both, President of the Parliament and all of you, that the Parliament's height is that the last word in the Republic of Croatia is not the word of the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but of the representative and representative of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48545	Thank you, too, dear representative Josip Salapic. First of all, let me say that, we'll take into account your ideas and suggestions, of course, and every time we move forward, it's not controversial. In other words, the address of the Prime Minister in the Croatian Parliament, I think it is good, you have confirmed and addressed both the representatives and the Croatian public, which is good, and all the representatives and all the clubs, regardless of who has spoken here, have the task of following Croatian policies and following them from their point of view of Croatian politics. So nothing new is going on that I'd say new about the MP's obligations. Okay. We are now passing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor. The presentation of the club's representatives by the Rules of Procedure is 20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48546	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia, respected colleagues and colleagues. I believe more and more in parallel worlds, here's why. What would the most common social motive on the postcard paint Croatian reality? Digging through trash cans. However, these scenes have been a little confusing lately. I watch bigger urban people pick up on poor Swedish tables almost every morning. What are they looking for? Maybe they're looking for plastic bottles. No, for when they find them, they bring them back to the bucket, and the dissatisfied leave. One morning I mustered up my courage and asked people to look down at what they were looking for in the trash can? Cyrillic plates, they're grinding me off. From my point of view, they probably figured out that I didn't really get it. We're looking for a warrant to see who's on it, is it really that lex, lex perkovic? I'm trying to explain that this gentleman they're interested in isn't the name lex, but they interrupt me by finding you as if you're not from our world and you don't understand our problems. And from which you gentlemen of the world, I ask them with caution. From one you don't understand, from a world where we deal with gay marriages, Cyrillics, cuneiform and other letters, arrest warrants. And so, I'm finding myself in my beard. Although I really don't understand much, I'm still thrilled. Why? Because I went one step further than the American astronomers who discovered a new planetary system consisting of a solar system with two stars in the constellation of Labuda at about 1200 light years away from the earth. American astronomers have found a parallel world, and my smallness has found the living beings of this parallel world on earth in front of its Haustor. How can I be sure these are the people of the parallel world named after Kepler 36 telescope? While a large number of Croatian citizens crown in their stomachs, while half of the Croats are threatening debt slavery, while Croatia is preparing a financial tutor for an excessive deficit of public debt, while more than 50% of young people are in vain looking for a job by wireing their parents change for cinema, while 80,000 workers are working and not receiving wages, while industrial production and consumption in freefall are these sullen people entertained by ideological topics. They must be from the parallel world. News and Internet headlines and television and radio journals suggest that this is my sudden and unexpected discovery of people from the parallel world and is not God knows what. Without them being placed in the parallel world, the media exposes them every day. Also, our Parliament colleague Davor Bernardic confirmed in an interview in Globus that SDP's elite lives in parallel reality. Are these SDP parallels from the parallel world? So, logically, they do not understand the problems of the people in whose name they rule the land. Who planted them for us? If it's all political fiction, it's confusing that these same people only two years ago, the people understood very well. Then they were solidarity with their kudikamo from today's smaller problems. Are these really the same people, today's Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic is the same one Zoran Milanovic who has been so warmly solidarity with the unions in the fight for workers' rights and today he can't hear them when they yell at him to receive them? Or perhaps the Prime Minister from that parallel majority of Croatian citizens is an incomprehensible world from which 22 months does not even signal that pre-election promises contained in Plan 21 and government commitments will begin to come true. It is not difficult to agree with Finance Minister Slavko Linic that HDZ has left the country, which was eaten by locusts for its last 8 years, for its last eight years. But that's what you ladies and gentlemen of the Kukuriku Coalition knew in 2011 when you swore you had a recipe to get out of the crisis. The big economic swing should have started if not last spring, and last summer, the president was thundering right behind this speaker of the prime minister's highest confidence, the deputy prime minister of the prime minister's trust. You offered rapid public sector reforms, and you didn't even start them. You are still entertained by putting similar party aparacics on positions that require expertise, courage and vision. At the head of HEP, which is likely to be first crushed, and then by the parts and sold, you placed a man who was being watched by his associates not to be shocked by the current. Public business leaders and agencies instead of focusing on reconstruction, pardon restructuring, focused on getting cars that are not private and will never drive. But when the taxpayers pay the price, it's not about the price. In a country where more and more people are literally starving, there is no new expensive rolling stock. Among those 1750 cars should not have been the most expensive for state officials. Why shouldn't government officials drive in cars that reflect modesty? Why not drive for example in significantly cheaper damages until the standard of citizens is raised, until they get the land out of the fungi, until the citizens stop digging through garbage cans to feed their families? The image and opportunity of government officials are not expensive cars in which officials drive, but those sad postcards with garbage cans. At a time when savings are needed when public expenditures have to be cut, the government is purchasing 10550 mobile phones for state officials and officials worth 40 million kuna. It's 6250 so-called. "smart phones" for a smarter bureaucratic apparatus. You have offered to reform the local self-government, but today you believe that 555 municipalities, cities and counties are not burdens on the back of citizens. You don't even have an answer for what with municipalities, cities and counties that can't be financed from their own incomes. And to remain in power until the end of the term, you will not reform local self-government. You've offered better, more efficient, fairer health care, a reduction in waiting lists for specialist reviews. When appointed Minister of Health Rajko Ostojić first told political speakers that there was money in the health care industry only needs to be redistributed. On the wings of this unrealistic optimism, you have reduced your health contribution from 15% to 13% and therefore, with a previously made debt of 5 billion kuna each year in the health system, you lack 2 billion kuna. The system is being collapsed to what doctors and nurses warn about, which is why you insist on enforcing selfishness because of the strike. Prime Minister, talk to them, ask them what they miss about departments. Soon, many hospitals, except for those where they will be treated, will look like a spa in Solzhenjcin's Cancer Department. No money for drugs, no money for toilet paper, hygienic gloves, operating thread, bed linen, apparatus. There was chaos in health care. It only works because of the expertise and solidarity of doctors and nurses and technicians. The government, however, continues to think that people, not expensive cars, are a symbol of wastefulness and haughtiness, not expensive phones, not expensive furniture, not criminally expensive rents of space. The price of work is this government, of course, and employers, the only red cloth. You supported the fight against predatory banks, but only while you were in opposition. Although you are reportedly hanging out with Hungarian Prime Minister Orban, of you Croatian Prime Minister, we have not even heard similar words to those spoken by your Hungarian counterpart, no one will make extra profits at the expense of the Hungarians. Hungary is an independent and sovereign country, the colonization period is over, saving families and their homes are our national goals. You're practicing your muscles on "Lex Perkovic". Instead, last week in Parliament, you thundered up, which is a state bank, there are no state banks, the state has ownership in the HKB, and if that bank wants to develop, it needs a strong partner, and that's going to be the one that offers the most. Your attitudes would very much dissipate the late Milton Friedman and all his Chicago Boys because they were completely successful in brainwashing. They themselves would not be so decadently representing the thesis that in this wild capitalism that is happening in Croatia there is no alternative and that the owner of the Croatian Post Bank will become the one who gives more. Fortunately, your neoliberal attitudes deny practice. The state may be and the states are a good master, even to the banks, provided the government is good. The first four European states in the size of a national portfolio deny your neoliberal thesis to sell anything that can be sold, due to debts. But debts need to be paid back by better management, not all sales. Instead of keeping the money in the Croatian postal bank, the state institutions managed by your government in the small insecure banks that have arisen, the Croatian practice proves this, in order to make a few dozen individuals rich in fraud, robbery in most cases without any consequences. Often with these speakers, ministers are proud to point out that banks in Croatia are extremely stable, and that this fact has saved us from an even greater disaster. Who did the predatory banks save from the disaster? 120 thousand Swiss-dipped Croatian families, 270 thousand blocked citizens? Is there room for pride while half of the citizens are in debt slavery or on the threshold of debt slavery, and the banks with which these new age slaves operate in large plus. Aren't banks in Croatia stable just because they loaned citizens? Instead of protecting its citizens from interest, and the currency clause, the illegal money lender, puts all the credit risk on the back of citizens is interest. The state has protected only banks so far. She acted like Superhik, we saved the banks, and we destroyed society. With Bulgaria and Greece, Croatia has the poorest citizens. Out of a thousand, 209 are poor with a tendency to increase the poor. Croatia is among the rare European countries where wages fall both nominally and realistically. And when Croatian Labourers suggested that 21% of government officials are solidarity with most Croatian citizens, not only did the government refuse reasonable and time-consuming proposals, but the Labourists began to accuse us of populistism. This government is equating solidarity with populism as the proposal for state officials to be driven in damages, and driven in damages by politicians and in some other countries, will be called demagogy. I wouldn't be surprised if the authorities and those who dig through garbage cans accused them of pulsism. Of the opposition engaged protagonists in a play that seeks to undermine the government's reputation. However, in the destruction of the government's reputation, the opposition's involvement is unnecessary. The government is working very successfully on it alone. The deficit in the state register weighs 17 billion kunas with a tendency to reach the end of the year and a figure of 20 billion kuna. The threat of Vice-President of the European Commission by her Commissioner for Monetary and Economic Policy Olli Rehn that if we do not go into so much needed reforms, there are enough sanctions to tell us about the ability or reputation of the government. We have long expected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic to launch a rationalisation of the public sector and a reform of local self-government, which not only is hesitant, but he is also holding back his bureaucratism and at least investment. However, the reform gave up last summer when Radimir Cacic said the war with bureaucracy could not be won by the government. I wonder what war this government won? Perhaps he who leads Minister Jovanovic in education and science? In that war, several generations of students and students will be run over. The battle for pension and health reform has not even begun. There are still 600,000 hectares of state land not being processed, there is no courage, and no idea what with private agricultural land not being processed. No wonder that with so much in the weeds of the healed country only half the imported food covered by exports. There are still no new big investment announced, and we are still foreign investors with too many risks. Who's to blame? The government and the only government, it's the government's fault we're expecting solutions, not the moaning of past bad times. If they were good HDZ, they'd stay in power. Today, we expected the prime minister to announce in his report concrete moves that would allow industrial production to grow. We expected the President of the Government Milanovic to turn around, create a positive political atmosphere, break... and the depressions that prevailed in Croatia, we expected the announcements of concrete moves, deadlines in which this government will begin reforms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of competing with quotes and verbal acrobatics from the Prime Minister, we expect a final state-of-the-art behavior that was not in this 22-month period. Especially not in the so-called. The already European case of lex Perkovic, who turned into the prime minister's irrational spite, makes many of our sincere friends look contemptuous in Croatia until yesterday. How could you not if the prime minister called them bluffs with nothing? He claimed that lex Perkovic was not interested in anyone in Europe, and that Croatia would not suffer any damage due to his muscle showing. And the damage is even without sanctions. The Croatian public is asking a simple question, Prime Minister why? Why did the law ever change? Why did he change a few days after Germany ratified the access contract? Prime Minister Milanovic was trying to publicize the issue of defending the law that protects people suspected of serious political murders defends Croatia's dignity. No one will wipe the floor in Croatian, we are a state and not a bird reserve. We're not doing anything wrong or immoral. This is a 99% internal issue of a rather traumatic issue for Croatia. We have seen these days and yesterday heard that it is not only Croatia but the European Union because we have become part of the European Union. For Croatia, it is a traumatic fact that authorities have been misleading people for decades with ideology to cover up either crime or incompetence or the sale of national treasures. For Croatia, it is traumatic to push all post-war crimes under the carpet and every little extraction of these crimes to pick up a few political concepts 100 times in unearthed costumes, and eventually dissipate and divide the people. And in doing so, it raises the dust to cover up the weaknesses of the bad authorities. In one of the numerous unsuccessful defences of irrational changes to the Law on the Arrest Warrant, Prime Minister Milanovic recommended that we not be overly impressed by the messages coming from Europe. We were not impressed by the words of Mrs. Reding and even less by the words of her spokeswoman. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have not been impressed by the Prime Minister's pious defense of Croatian sovereignty. Enjoying his own vanity, the Prime Minister has dragged us into several months... with the European Union for which the consequences will be neither guilty nor obliged by all Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why, Prime Minister? It seems to me that the answer to that question is hidden in last week's current hour, in terms of the prime minister's words, which read like this, our characters can be harmful to politics. The prime minister's character has damaged Croatia's politics, Croatia's state and the surrounding countries. It's not too late to say I admit I was wrong. And go back to solving those problems that really bother most Croatian citizens. Mrs. Merkel, with whom I do not share key world-wide issues, is for the Germans a great stateswoman because she solves problems, especially the problems of her citizens, because she does it without a halabu, without boast, with modesty. Although America has not brought new hope, President Obama is very much in favour of the rights of those who live by their work. It is inadmissible that workers cannot feed their families on their wages. Who else thinks about that in Croatia? How could you not if Obama lived in socialism? Wrong argument. According to a well-known documentaryist Michael Moore, not exactly. He says we live in socialism for the rich. And not to be socialist just for the rich, let's start saving citizens instead of the banks, that's the job of everyone and these governments. Given the amount of criticism, a request for resignation could eventually be expected, but it will not be. As in the prime minister's speech today, it is not repeated to all of us in the famous sentence "My share is over.". Politicians whose character harms politics and society will never say that sentence with their own will but only when they are forced on it. Despite the belief that this government will not be launched without rooted personnel changes, I do not wish for such a situation. And just another little stiletto Mr. Prime Minister said earlier that the Croatian government will not be in debt, the headline in today's newspaper reads, Minister Linic is going to pick up a new billion dollars in America. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48547	Thank you, too. The next Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament is the HDZ Club and the respected representative Tomislav Karamarko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48548	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister. I must start by saying that we can't be satisfied with Mr. Prime Minister's exposure for the simple reason it's not what we expected. We expected one inventory of his work in 22 months, we expected him to point to real problems in a way that would offer us some recipes, i.e. to tell us what he did while these real problems were solved. We didn't get any of that, we got a line of charges at the expense of the predecessors, a row of illusions, promises, unfulfilled promises, which is actually not good. I would quote here one of our contemporaries, just two sentences: "This program that we've been communicating for weeks and months behind us is a campaign that's been hard and hard to say. I won't look back on it here. As I give you my word, and by God, I will not look back on what was before. I will resist all my strength in that in discussions that will be awake and fierce, I do not point my fingers at those who will be opposition and tell them what they or their predecessors did a year, two, five or 15 years ago. It is barren, useless and bad for Croatia.". We have to agree with this, Mr Milanovic, that's what you said on 23.12.2011 and countless times, ten times a day deny yourself as you did today. I would start my exposure to the fact that the current situation in Croatian society is characterized by depression, hopelessness and imperceptibility. While there are visible signs of economic recovery and social optimism in many of our neighbouring countries, the crisis is deepening in Croatia and there are no real indications of its end and the start of economic and social recovery. All relevant macroeconomic indicators remain firmly negative. Industrial production in July was 2.8% lower than in June and 4.4% lower than in July last year and returned to the level from early 2002. Traffic at the retail store in July during the tourist season is lower than in June by 1.2%. Construction works in the second quarter were lower by 1.7% than in the first quarter, and the value of new construction orders was lower by 11.7%. Also, the number of building permits issued in the first seven months is almost 30% lower compared to the first seven months of last year. Exports were lower in the first half of the year compared to the same period last year by 4.4%. All these negative indicators resulted in a 1.1% drop in GDP in the first half of this year compared to the same period last year. Let us remember what predictions were and what was promised. Unfortunately, after further decline of industrial production in July, nothing suggests that GDP could grow in the second half of the year. All of this affected the country's further decline in credit rating. The number of unemployed in July of this year has increased by 17 thousand, while the number of employees is lower by 14 thousand. In particular, many unemployed young educated people who are looking for work and existence are concerned about mass departure outside Croatia. All this reflected the state of state finances and the government budget deficit for the first 8 months reached 13 billion kuna, nearly 3 billion more than planned for the whole year and, apparently, if nothing is done by the end of the year, it will be around 17 billion kuna, which has never happened before. The deepening of the crisis, the end of which is not seen, reflects negatively on the social situation in Croatian society so that Croatia has the highest rate of poverty in the European Union alongside Greece and Bulgaria. Croatia is one of the few European countries where nominal and real wages fall. The result of this government's policy is a decline in economic activity, destabilised public finances, public debt growth and the poverty of the population. All this dry data and the numbers I've put out are saying one thing: that our citizens are living worse and worse since you've been in power. Instead of focusing on the design and implementation of structural reforms of the public sector and creating a competitive economic environment, the Government has since the very beginning of its mandate focused all its energy on the human resources of loyal party listeners, who, in addition to all democratic rules, have abolished even the Institute of Public Competition, without adequate capacity, knowledge and necessary work experience, placed responsible and well-paid jobs in state and public services and state companies. The increase in value added tax, excise duties, the tax on paid dividends with retroactive action imposes an additional burden on both the economy and citizens. With an increase in electricity and gas prices, some 7 billion kuna were taken to citizens. The electricity was up 30%, the gas was 34%, and the heating was 35%. Nice numbers. With frequent and unscheduled changes, particularly tax regulations, announcements and statements by top government officials on the introduction of new taxes, such as real estate taxes, the government deepened the anti-enterprise climate and caused legal uncertainty and spread the fear of potential both foreign and domestic investors, entrepreneurs and all other citizens. Not realizing that the government's actions deepened the situation in society and that its measures and moves did not bring or can result in positive effects, government officials instead of social dialogue of the guilty for the worrying economic and social situation in Croatian society began to seek and still seek out in various social groups, disdaining and insulting workers, peasants, entrepreneurs, teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors, defenders, combat victims, believers, church dignitaries, etc., etc. There is almost no social group with which the government is not in a permanent open and latent conflict. Instead of systematically focusing on solving the annual economic and social problems in society and on continuously producing unproductive and harmful social conflicts in solving these problems through genuine and sincere dialogue. I would like to remind myself of an eclectic violation of democratic rules of conduct during the legitimate and legal collection of the signature of citizens of the Citizens' Association "In the Name of the Family" for the implementation of a referendum on constitutional definition of marriage as a community of women and men. Despite the fact that more than enough valid citizens' signatures have been collected to carry out the referendum, and that all renowned constitutional and legal experts claim that the Croatian Parliament is obliged to call a constitutional referendum of the ruling coalition in various ways to prevent the implementation of the referendum. This could lead to a constitutional-political crisis without precedent. We also witnessed the violent early morning deployment of bilingual inscriptions, signboards on the buildings of state institutions in Vukovar as soon as the government risked even the physical conflict of Vukovar defenders and war victims with Croatian police officers. The prime minister called the act a triumph of Croatian will and a triumph of the Croatian state. Apparently, the Prime Minister is implementing Article 12. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and the establishment of bilingual writing boards is understood as a war effort and that their setting is a victoryal celebration, ceremony and shining success by forgetting Article 8 of that same Constitutional Law, which says, quote: "The provisions of this Constitutional Law and the provisions of specific laws governing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities must be interpreted and applied for the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and the Croatian people to develop understanding of solidarity and dialogue between them. Therefore, the purpose of this constitutional law is to improve, not to violate international relations, and not just in Vukovar. We ask that Vukovar be declared the place of a special pite. The fact is that nowhere in equal use the language and the letter of the minority were forced to force were not only an expression of respect for the law but also of genuine desire for co-existence. Violently and under the cover of the night, the installation of bilingual plates in Vukovar, a symbol of suffering and suffering, which during the great Serbian aggression suffered the worst of destruction, numerous deaths, wounded and camp torture and humiliation at a time when memories are still fresh and when not known about the fate of many missing defenders and civilians is an insult not only to the Vukovars, but also to the vast majority of the Croatian people. And as if all these totally unnecessary conflicts weren't enough. The government has caused a completely unnecessary and far-reaching conflict with the European Commission, insisting on amendments to the Law on judicial co-operation in criminal matters with EU member states adopted by the ruling majority in this House of Commons three days before Croatia became a full member of the EU. That shameful act you remember we didn't want to attend, so we got out of this assembly. Croatia has come a long way to adapt EU rights and has gained the trust of Member States as a sacred example and a model for others. This trust and credibility, respect for commitments by signing the Treaty of Accession, has brought the government into question and, unfortunately, turned Croatia into an unreliable partner, in a country where legal uncertainty and non-compliance with international commitments are ruled out. Your conflict with the European Commission endangers the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. Instead of focusing on the creation of programmes and projects for the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds, rather than the government and all institutions of the system, and the challenges stemming from full membership in the EU, the government is focusing on the creation of programmes and projects for the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds, and this is a cornerstone of economic recovery, and in particular its president is completely irrationalally insisting on lex Perkovic by justifying it by means of a blatant protection of national dignity. Such behaviour not only threatens us with specific measures of the Economic Commission but also sends a clear negative message to potential foreign investors, so that it is not worth investing in a country where legal uncertainty and non-compliance with international contracts is not respected. This is how the government acts rather than as a leader in solving the accumulated economic and social problems endangers vital national interests and becomes itself the biggest social problem. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, and I believe that a large part of the Croatian public, I call on the Government and its representatives, and all MPs in this House, both the opposition parties and the ruling coalition, to put aside the Law on Amendments to the Law on Judicial Cooperation with EU members, and to remove the danger of special measures towards Croatia announced by the European Commission, as well as those on the depriving of European funds, and measures on post-accession monitoring and delaying Croatia's entry into the Schengen area. Putting beyond the law mentioned above will prevent further both direct and indirect harmful consequences for the Croatian state and all its citizens. I also call on the Government to establish the necessary social dialogue with defenders and victims in Vukovar on bilingual writing panels, as well as with other social and professional associations specifically with the Union of Doctors and Nurses to address or at least ease unnecessary social tensions. Peace, democratic dialogue and stability are very much needed today so that all together we can focus on solving above all the accumulated economic problems. But it seems to me that with this government, it's an illusion and it's too late. You managed to devastate this country economically, worldly and morally. You're really mature to go. Every day of your further term is a disaster for Croatia. And in the end, I'm going to paraphrase our first president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, who is unfortunately rarely mentioned in the Croatian Parliament, who said that the policy that does not have the necessary knowledge, prudence and determination cannot be successful and that he does not know how to get friends and allies in real circumstances both in the country and abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48549	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, a colleague named Giovanni Sponza will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48550	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the esteemed colleague and colleagues on behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club in today's debate, I would like to look back on two areas. The area where both tangible and measurable and tangible results are achieved – tourism, and the area that ensures greater stability of the state compared to economic movements – decentralisation. Tourism in Croatia during the period of the current government, which covered two tourist seasons, records rising trends. Last 2012 the number of nights and arrivals increased, in the first seven months 8.5% more income in tourist activities was achieved than it was last year. It is evident that huge shifts have been made both they infrastructure and they legally, but what I believe is the most important strategic framework has been created, and on behalf of the IDS, I congratulate the overall composition of the government. All of us in the Parliament have shown that we are aware of how important it was for Croatian tourism to bring strategy. A strategy that defines the tourism future, a strategy that provides guidance for the more strong development of tourism and all Croatian landscapes, and for increasing competitiveness and for Croatia's entry among the 20 most competitive countries in the world. The adopted Strategy for the Development of Croatian Tourism by 2020 is ambitious and that is good. Personally, I expect that the results will be getting better, of course, provided that they continue to comply with the legislation, build new tourism infrastructure, create new content and create an appropriate business environment. In addition to the adopted strategy in this period of the current Government of the Republic of Croatia, we from the IDS are also holding a very important shift in the application of the differentiated VAT rate for tourism of 10%. We consider it important because the differentiated VAT rate has made our tourism competitive in the international market, and it certainly wants to boost investment in the long term. I would like to point out in this particular occasion that in this extremely difficult financial situation the government has defined and taken a clear and firm position to contribute not only to the current but also to the long-term development of tourism. If it continues so cleverly and responsibly, we will preserve our competitive advantages, survive in the world of tourist destinations and do so as one of the better ones, and that is what I am sure to all of us in the Assembly goal. I also believe that we all aim to create strong local self-government, a key element of all modern democratic political systems. I will be free to remind myself that in the European Charter of Local Self-Government signed in Strasbourg in 1985 by almost all Member States of the Council of Europe and one of the opening definitions reads: "Defence and strengthening of local self-government is an important contribution to building Europe based on the principles of democracy and decentralisation of government." The Republic of Croatia is in September '97. the years ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In Croatia, however, local self-government is not stronger, in Croatia the development of local self-government compared to European local administrations has been significantly slowed down. There are objective reasons for that. Homeland war and a postwar period. There are also consequences for this, such as the inconsistency and inconsistencies of their laws and the fact that Croatia is highly centralised today. All modern and modern European states have made it possible, through the organisation of local and regional self-government, to a lesser extent, and some of them to a greater extent, to decentralisation, and it is not by chance that European countries, and hence its citizens and citizens, who have a high degree of decentralisation during this difficult period, are at least feeling the consequences of the crisis. On the other hand, in our country, which has a series of regional specificities today, centralization is choking and is holding back economic and development. Today, Croatia is struggling with the diversity and lagging behind in the development of peripheral regions whose residents escape to the centres reduce the possibility of some serious development. Its cities, municipalities and counties have been restrained by a series of administrative restrictions are not able to effectively perform the basic function of development coordinators in their area nor can they become strong and capable of attracting and retaining the best organisations, professionals, experts and investors. I therefore believe that the state executive level of governance must be free of the burden of unnecessary operations. The state level has the task of creating strategic frameworks and strategic considerations while the local level needs to be taken care of local problems because, let's be realistic, social sustainable development is possible only through local communities. Strengthening the capacity of local institutions to address public problems will result, and I believe that this is crucial and that it is a matter of decentralisation of a cheaper and better quality service for citizens. In this debate, I would like to touch on the topics mentioned today, which I believe neither contributes to understanding nor contributes to solving the problem, which is territorial reconstruction. To talk about territorial reconstruction, and before that, it does not start to implement decentralisation, nor is it reasoned, nor is it complete, nor is it content, nor is it a responsible story. What I am personally convinced, that precisely in this difficult and demanding period when efforts by the government are made to stabilise and bring into order what absolutely IDS supports, is the right time to start and open a serious, reasoned and responsible public debate on decentralisation in which all relevant factors need to be involved. In this situation where the state has no money, right now we need to use this time to plan and create a platform to best open assumptions for the development of local self-government, and we need dialogue, partnership and sincere intentions. With such a political standard, we can get a comprehensive, comprehensive and comprehensive concept of the functioning of local self-government as a key element of all modern democratic political systems. A political system that wants to ensure greater stability of the state, which wants to result in economic and private development and which wants to result in a cheaper and better quality service for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48551	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48552	Dear Madam Vice President, it's the honor of the Prime Minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. It is clear that all of us could understand how these discussions would be conducted. One will invoke or call for deficits, another that the country has been left in ruins, which is true, and that it is so eloquently confirming the fact that there is a prime minister "in prison", the deputy prime minister of the government left prison, the defence minister was in prison, the minister of agriculture I don't know where, the police are also similar. I agree that the ones who mention the larger deficit are right, and it's certainly around 16 billion kuna, and maybe it'll be a lot bigger by the end of the year. And why is that? Well, first of all, because of the new calculation methodology. It's certainly not going to be 3.8% like this is going to be 4.7. Maybe it's going to be 5.1.2%, that's maybe 18 billion kuna. But why is that? What's going on? We have so far run this methodology by the IMF now have to go towards the EU. And Europe follows when we talk about the general administration and the ministry and the state-owned companies and local self-government and all municipal services. So Europe is monitoring the 576 budgets of local self-government plus their utility companies, and not like that so far was 56 of the largest locals to express myself as a unit. So we also follow 200 million kunas do not know the cities of Porec and Gračiši and do not list everything further, but we follow the debts of Zagreb Holding and Croatian highways, we follow the team by our cities, municipalities of the county and so on. So for the first time this time the deficit will not be due only to the prime minister or ministers or directors of the largest state-owned companies but also to the mayors and mayors and directors of municipal companies. And what's going on? The state must either reduce the deficit by 3 billion kuna or 0.9 or 0.8%, but then with deficits that also need to be tackled by local self-government whose revenues at this point are 20% of budget money. The situation is serious, not critical. What is most important in Croatia can serve its obligations mainly debts. It is just as someone noticed today that Linic has travelled for a new tranche of debt in the amount of do not take me by the word of billions or billions and $500 million. But in 2014 for interest, this country will have to pay 2.5 billion kuna more than last year. For the EU this year, we will have to provide a pardon for the next year 3.6 billion kuna, and this year a billion 600 were. In theory, I agree, we can withdraw from Europe, for example. one billion euros next year, however, the most important thing is that we haven't intervened for 15 years, or we haven't cut the capital by one dollar, but we're just paying the interest. No one has to agree with me, but it's my judgment that both the state bodies and the ministries have been converted by at least 30%. With local self-government, the situation is the same, and it's normal, I don't advocate that the cold drive is resolved by 30%, but that's one huge burden, it certainly is. Normally, when I speak of the County of Istria, I will say openly that the hand be dried to the one who would vote to abolish the County of Istria. But let's let it go now. In 2013, the burden of crisis and this is true was transferred to citizens and I claim primarily small companies, a small sector. But there's something else to say, little ones need to let them work, don't lock them up for small things, because if they don't, they won't pay their debts, they won't fill the state fiscus or pay taxes. But what do I want to say? That this government hasn't left cca in the last two years. 10 billion kuna would have been incomparably more tragic. Someone will say it's crumbs, 10 billion kuna is 3% of gross social product, but it should be fair and say that the government has given up 10 in these two years, under quotes "rejected", has left the economy 10 billion kuna more. Among other things, this may be why doctors strike today, perhaps because of this today when there is no other way to respond to the Cyrillic march. Recently, someone told me, even in one of the St. Petra in the forest, 15km in Pazin, one document was written on Cyrillic, no less than anywhere in the 12th century. In one Glagolitic Istria in the 12th century it was written in Cyrillic, which is probably the same as the Serbian and vice versa as the Croatian. But to say that 3% of the gross social product, so it refers to the order of parafiscal taxes, to VAT on tourism, although because of these, because of this intervention that VAT in tourism fell from 25% to 10%, no one was cheap, that we became competitive, that's another thing right now, I doubt. Some chamber contribution has been reduced, this profit is reinvested to the companies. The craftsmen are now not in the VAT system, from, to 80, pardon 80,000 kuna, but from 240 thousand kuna, etc. I know that someone will say that the average company may have been easier for those 2%, but, yes, that's true, which means when, for example, the greater VAT caused the citizens to fall in purchasing power. That the situation among citizens and small companies is serious testimony that citizens and businesses cannot return 43 billion kuna to banks neatly. Of which, 12.8 billion kuna is spent on citizens, on companies of about 30.5 billion kuna. And therefore, it is no wonder that the profit of the bank is also 2013. For the first 6 months less 40% compared to the profits of the business banks that were operating in 2012. But on the other hand, Croatia is fortunate that no bank has had to recover from the state budget. Others will say that their position primarily stemmed from a burden taken over by citizens, a small and large economy. And here we must be rich in Europe. For example, one Ireland gave 90% of its banks' gross social product, one Denmark as much as 60%. So that's where we see the burden being transferred to the citizens. But once again they'll say that the state is not disbursing the economy, the question simply what would it be like. We may have been talking all summer about this Lex Perkovic. Well, the plane shows that it's working, I dare say a classic mobing, pressure not on Europe, but perhaps some ladies because of the German elections, or these European elections. But why did I say the plane shows that it's simply a pressure on Croatia. In that if Croatia now says to comply with Czech lex Perkovic, it means 1.1.2014 under quotes there will be no pressure or sanctions. And now we see again that like Orwell's animal farm, all the countries are even but obviously some are evener. And what happens? HDZ managed to replace the the thesis that Milanovic, the prime minister of the government, was protecting under the allegations of Perkovic, not as former parliamentary representative and judge of the Constitutional Court, Mr Vukojevic said that Perkovic was being protected by Šušak and Tudjman. This was the assistant secretary of defense, and this second one was founded by the infamous SIS. In fact, Mr. Vukojevic went one step further and said against the lustration of the 90s on the one hand were Tudjman and because of some in the church who also worked with the UDBA, the late Cardinal Kuharic. If that's what he says, I don't know, HDZ, then it looks like, I don't know, the prime minister was head of intelligence there in 2004, 05th maybe he wouldn't hand over the innocent Markac, Cermak, Gotovina or who. But let's let it go now. There's no need to discuss that. This situation in Croatia was preceded by not raising the budget, but above all, not just raising the budget, clearly, but rights and all with the aim of buying electoral votes. Isn't it absurd that in the pre-crisis 2008, the state budget is 115 billion kuna, but this year 124 billion kuna is with all cuts and all the strikes we unfortunately have or will have. But clearly collective rights, disability, acquired rights simply cannot be touched without protest. So let's be equally honest whether this government, for example, is guilty today in 2013, of what I don't know, let's say for one thing, Adrian's profits are going down. For what? Due to Croatia's entry into the European Union, because the benefits of CEFTA are no longer applicable in this country. Is it this government's fault that one Oilman is also this year, say or last year, doing business with a significant loss. Yeah, okay, this government is to blame, whether it's May 3rd or Brodosplit's fault they don't have orders. Here's the Shuker says about it. Is this government guilty of the end of a Puris in Istria, and that's why it's guilty? Is it this government's fault that the number of people employed in Istria from 2008 to today is minus 13,000? This is what this government and Damir Cain are responsible for. Is this government to blame for the dubiosis the media has, and today I'm reading trade chains. Is this government responsible for HRT's business, it's obvious that some counsellors are consulting the director of HRT, and they charge every kuna to Cimiter's cemetery, Monte Ghiru, for example, in Pula. Is it this government's fault that Brijuni Riviera or something else, Mr. Shucker, is it again, okay? This government may have been guilty, which, not at the beginning of the mandate, cut this budget for 7 billion kuna. But let's wait, let's be honest, there's pensions, there's welfare, there's pay. The situation is at least complicated. He looks forward to one Zagreb if nothing else is forecasting from one side of the GDP decline in '13. by 0.9% but GDP growth in '14. One percent. If that happens, I will say Croatia "saved". We're not in that situation yet, but let's be careful again. To compensate, watch out for 3 billion kunas that we now need to cut, not cut them, so GDP should grow around brother 2.5%, 2.5% next year. Well, clearly that's impossible, but as always, the country won't draw any power, no opposition, but I say it'll draw the victim of those he has the most, and that's exactly poverty. We in two years or this power, I have 10 minutes left... I've only got 10 minutes left because I've only got 10 bills. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm still talking to 5 more, okay 5 more. Yeah, 'cause I'm looking up the traffic lights. This government in two years, gentlemen, so it couldn't change economic parameters, solve deficits, resolve exports, solve shipbuilding, insolvency...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48553	Don't throw it out of the bench. Comrade Cain, one moment. Please, there wasn't a 20-minute measurement at first but 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48554	So it simply couldn't be done, but this government must, even at the cost of losing elections, rescheduling what the prime minister was talking about, public finances and guaranteeing the functioning of the rule of law. If she does that then, if that goes after her hand, she saves the states, saves the finances, saves the state's pardons and saves the weak. The prime minister spoke in his speech about four times leaving the crisis: order, consolidation, rationalisation, growth in the economy. He talked about how this country managed to charge 500 million kunas of unpaid 40 billion dollars in two years, 3 billion kunas were reprogrammed, 3 billion kuna for citizens is in the programme. Through a pre-demand settlement, it is mentioned that it helped to survive 40 thousand jobs in life, he mentioned that in 2011, no salaries were paid for 205,000 workers, today for 70,000, even under the penalty of prosecution. Only in the deficit were nine billion kuna interest. What I'm glad he mentioned among other 10,000 associations that spend 10 billion kunas, 3% of GDP, and only from the budget for the association goes a billion and 500 million kuna. And I don't feel bad when that money goes to a drug-fighting association in Istria where at an annual level they collect 250 kilos of syringes, spontaneous or spontaneous to say in my dialect, where the drugs started to split at auctions, you buy a gram-get two, a lot of it. I like it even more at these festivals, and I prefer that the prime minister told the PR agencies. They can't run politics like they do in some of my environments. The prime minister says out of recession, investment, private investment, foreign investment, tax policy, European funds, diplomatic offensive. What I expect from this government, to be issued as soon as possible before the concession to continue the construction of the ipsilon, a general hospital, is to one day go into the construction of Ucka railway tunnel, provided that our ports are saved. But the same is the fact that in this year, a billion and 300 million kuna is directed from the state budget to Istria. Clearly, it's hard to be surprised at the debates, we'll be together for one thing, the other we'll be for this. But once again, for example, hoteliers don't build new hotels, at least rebuild them in Istria, it's not the government's fault, it's not the Uljanik, Mr. Shuker, it's not the government's fault, maybe some former administration or government. This government is not to blame for Puris, for the construction of only 5 new hotels in Rovinj at 23 years in Istria, one in I don't know Medulin, one up in Umag. It's not this government's fault. Maybe it wasn't her fault, either. The opportunities are simply ungrateful, even entering Europe. Now first, because of CEFTA, it means we're going down, then worse. On the other hand, foreigners hold shares worth 87.6 billion kuna in Croatia. What has this government sold out so far? Nothing. Will he? That's what we'll see. Probably. At the beginning of the year, foreign companies held 28.7% of all shares in Croatia. Once again what she sold? Nothing. And what's he gonna sell? We'll just see about that. All in all, it is clear that I personally support this report. Perhaps more could have been done, but be assured that a little has not been done in these two years. And if it hadn't been for what happened and if the former policy had continued, the opportunity would have been far and far worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48555	Ivan Shuker, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48556	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament you have injured the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Assembly, Article 121, teaching on Articles 128 and 129. Therefore, Article 128 states that the Prime Minister submits a report once a year. Article 129 discusses how the debate is going, and Article 121 says that otherwise governed by the government's and parliament's relations, that the government determines a member of the government and a deputy minister for its representatives in the Parliament. Since we as parliamentary representatives and this House of High Representatives have not received a proposal from the Government or written material for this item of the agenda, and I don't know how someone could change the Prime Minister because he submits an annual report, we believe that you had to warn the Prime Minister no matter how much he liked it or how much he didn't like it, how much he didn't listen to what he was saying in this House he had to be present today during the entire debate. He cannot be replaced here by the esteemed Vice President of Greece. After all, there is not even the first vice president, because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure If you already wanted the great leader to address the nation then you should have predicted when [[Thank you very much.]] The great leader can no longer sit here so that one of the smaller leaders can change him. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time's up, fellow.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48557	Comrade Shuker, you have violated the Rules of Procedure because Article 236 states that the MP must immediately specify an article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury he is referring. Since the Vice-President of the Government is sitting here, and the Prime Minister has been briefly absent because of certain obligations, I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been injured. He'll come back and listen to everyone else. You have the right to contact the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure if you think so. ... You can't. [[You can't hear it.]] Comrades of Jadranka Kosor, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48558	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am sure that Article 128, 129 of our Rules of Procedure has been injured because Article 128, which states on the report we are discussing today, clearly states that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is submitting a report. So the Prime Minister submits a report, does not submit to the vice presidents and does not say that the government is submitting. If it says that the report is submitted by the Government then we could accept that here with us now, with all due respect, the Vice President of Greece. Since it is logical that everyone who speaks on behalf of the clubs has a few things to say to the Prime Minister, it is logical to suggest, among other things, that it is logical because in the Rules of Procedure, Madam Vice President does not say that after the report is submitted, the Prime Minister may leave the Croatian Parliament, or the Assembly. I suggest we stop in the debate, wait for the Prime Minister. I believe he's gone because he has something extremely important and will inform us about it. But as the government and the Prime Minister responds to the Croatian Parliament, it is the constitutional category logical to hear us all and to finally answer us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48559	Thank you very much. And I also answer to you that here is the vice-president of the government who will listen and pass it on to the President if necessary, and the Prime Minister will return to the Parliament as soon as he has an obligation. I also suggest you address the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the political system. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48560	Madam Vice President, because of your arbitrary interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I request a recess on behalf of the club of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48561	I didn't voluntarily interpret the Rules of Procedure. I read to you exactly what Article 236 says: "If the representative is not satisfied with the given explanation, he can announce to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure will be submitted." You didn't do it. On behalf of the national minority club, colleagues Furio Radin and Nedzad Hodzic will speak. ... Here's your colleague, Radin. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48562	Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished fellow MPs. At the same time, it is good and bad that there is no vote on government work reports. It's bad because MPs are placed in a subordinate position. It's good because we don't have to focus on all the critical points in the debates, maybe just some because there's a lot of them, and not all the problems that the government doesn't solve or that the government creates. I won't mention economic problems. So we don't just have to rely on it, we can talk about other things, and in particular we can give certain suggestions that we think the government needs. I won't mention economic problems here, many will talk about it much more metrically than I do, and I don't belong among those who know enough to think that I can talk about anything. I'll just mention some mistakes here for a little while. Showing our strength, i.e. showing our muscles where we need it the least in the EU, and when we're still painted on the wardrobe, which means we're in, that we're all looking at us from the gym, but we don't know yet where we're going to sit if we're near a window with a view to the sea or by the emergency exit. And to make things worse, we've shown the muscles, we've shown that we're strong and equal to the country that's in a society where everyone's serious and equal is the most serious and the most equal. National minorities hope that this problem will be resolved quickly because friends must be treated friendlyly. I will only mention further the law that was supposed to introduce order in sport, which was primarily a noble attempt to finally get rid of the rule of footballers, especially players and interrupt sports malversions mainly in football. The main debate was whether Zdravko Mamic insulted Minister Jovanovic on a national basis or only on a personal basis. And it's almost nothing else. Which means she won an existing dictatorship in football. Also, I'm going to end up with problems and I'm going to move on to things that are hoping to be listened to that are positive for us from the national minorities, and I'm going to mention the health problem means as the last problem. First of all sexual education and we will say very clearly that it is very questionable whether he succeeded whatever claimed in the Ministry of Education and Sports. He got divorced, that's for sure. Legal changes in science, in the very end, and in higher education, we'd better not talk. These are the critical points that should be deepened from our point of view. Of course, with those economic and economic ones. The positive side for us from the National Minority Club is what many consider to be a negative side, i.e. by the failure of this government, the prime minister's sentences just before that the rights of different nationalities, by sex, are as important as the economy, so that human rights are fundamental to this government, and not secondary, would be enough for us to support this government. Because bilinguality wherever it is established assumes tolerance, tolerance. Even in Vukovar who has the right to drink, especially that practical pitet that is defined by the right to reconstruct one city that was rich and developed before it was killed, but I have never heard of piety without respecting others. And finally, who gives us the right to disobey the law, a law that takes nothing away from others, just adds the wealth of the culture of a national community. Cyrillic is nothing more than a sign that they, that Serbs belong to the city, of course. Or is that what we don't want, not to be considered home? We in Istria had the power to introduce bilingualism at the moment when all the wounds were opened, which today led to the highest degree of solidarity everyone said in Europe. I don't know if it's in Europe but it's a very high degree of solidarity. Will that be possible in Vukovar? But only if we stop politicizing and listen to everyone's voice. And in the end about communication and then I will give my word to Mr. Hodzic who will continue this debate. What this government lacks or has very little is the ability to communicate. And without, so with friends, with co-workers with a coalition partner and with those who are not coalition partners as minorities but support that government, they support it from the outside as it is said but constantly and consistently to say so, thoroughly, without the ability to communicate between the government and especially those who support it, but also the opposition is possible only mistakes. That and where the intentions are noble. More head thinks better than head, believe me. In other words, only one head whose problems can't be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48563	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Deputy Prime Minister, Honored colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives Club is not a classic parliamentary club of one political party or one political view. It is made up of representatives whose political views can differ significantly, but this possible political heterogeneity does not prevent us from expressing our unique views today in assessing the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, headed by Prime Minister Milanovic. Some of our unique views were expressed by fellow Furio Radin, and probably some of the SDSS's attitudes will be expressed as part of our club, but I think what I'm about to say is actually the unique position of all club members. First of all, we want to express our great satisfaction and clear, transparent and unequivocal foreign policy, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia led with Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic leads to neighbouring countries and countries in the region, which are also countries of origin of a large number of members of national minorities represented in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Clear support for the independence, sovereignty and integrity of BiH as countries of three constituent nations and all its citizens, policies of reconciliation and improvement of all aspects of co-operation with the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro despite the difficult historical heritage from the near past, and unselfish support and assistance of all countries in the region on their way to the EU is the government of the Republic of Montenegro on which we congratulate and support. We are also pleased with the new legal solutions made in the term of this government, which for the first time stepped forward to positive discrimination against members of national minorities, but also members of the Croatian people in the environments where they are in the local minority community would say. For the first time, these legal solutions allowed members of national minorities to vote except for the commissioners and their deputies to vote additionally for minority deputies, which is the first step in our assessment of positive discrimination. However, we are not satisfied and cannot be satisfied with the application of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities relating to or referring to the relative employment of members of national minorities in the state and public administration. There is a large gap and this disproportionateity with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is such that very often we think that this law is deliberately obstructed in this segment. We know that the current rate is difficult, we know that a ban on new employment is in place but we want to point out that new employment still exists because it must be for this or that reason, and that in this new employment, members of national minorities remain on the sidelines. What's even scarier at this difficult moment, so when people are fired from their jobs in the state and public administration, there are also members of the national minorities, I would say to the advantage, more are out of work, in fact, our constitutional law rights are being reduced even more and less. We are not satisfied with the presence of information on the total contribution of members of national minorities to Croatian society as a whole in public media. When it comes to us, it is mainly about our religion or about some segments of our cultural autonomy. We believe that it is very important to show that members of national minorities are an integral part of Croatian society and that they make a very important contribution to the development of the entire Croatian society, so I would say from the Homeland War when the state was created through sport, education, culture, entrepreneurship, so we want to show the Croatian society that we are fully integrated here and that we are making an average contribution to the development of Croatian society in terms of our numbers. We are also pleased with the efforts that the government of the Republic of Croatia, headed by Zoran Milanovic, makes to enforce legality in this country. My colleague Radin was saying something about Cyrillic, and of course I will re-absorbed the problem. The Cyrillic letter is not only the right of representatives of national minorities to the basis of the law, it speaks of Croatian society and the breadth of Croatian society. Cyrillic didn't kill anyone, it's what all people need to know, Cyrillic who knows it only enriches such an individual, Cyrillic letters write and some other languages, big world languages. Therefore, it would be good for all of you from all political parties to explain to the members and your electoral body both to the left and to the right that the application of this law is simply a legal obligation and that such things as we looked at in Vukovar are never repeated again. It is saddened to see a Croatian defender tear down inscriptions in Vukovar through a Croatian policeman. When you tear down the inscriptions written by the Republic of Croatia, you tear down the very state where you live, you destroy the height of the Homeland War that this country was created in. So my call is don't do it, find the defenders a way to help them, because among the defenders, I will repeat it once more after this speaker, and that is what the Croatian public must know, among the defenders is a huge number of members of the national minorities. Unfortunately, on Saturday, I attended the funeral of late Ejub Avdic, a Croatian defender, a participant in the Storm whose life ended in suicide. Croatian defenders have enough problems of their own, and we do everything in our power to help all of these people, regardless of their nationality, to overcome material problems, but more importantly, other problems that they really have and do not allow themselves to be manipulated with defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48564	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48565	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm really sorry to have to intervene, but you violated Article 248 and 249 of our Rules of Procedure. In Article 248, I quote "At the meeting of the Assembly, a representative of the club of representatives may request a break for a meeting of the club of representatives. The representative of the club of representatives is obliged to state the reasons why he is seeking a break and a proposal for the length of its duration in the exhibition for no longer than two minutes," it remains technically spoken if the break is approved. Since you didn't grant me a break, you violated Article 249. Which clearly states: "The President will not approve a recess for the meeting of the club representatives if the request for a recess is submitted prior to the establishment of the agenda and the change to the agenda for reasons related to the work of the working bodies of the assembly. IC in connection with an outcry or a statement by representatives outside the Parliament." So since the reason for seeking a break on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club is not for any of these intended reasons why you cannot give a break you have broken the Rules of Procedure and I am again on behalf of the Club looking for a break of 10. One minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48566	A fellow Shuker. You had a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I said there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, we are discussing the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Prime Minister gave an opening speech on the government's report, please listen to it by the end so, since he had to leave here briefly is the Deputy Prime Minister who's following all the clubs' exposure. You could, therefore, when the chairman said he was obliged to give an explanation after the complaint was made and if you are not satisfied with the day's explanation, you can announce that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure will submit an application for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't say that, you didn't say that and you can't... , may, therefore you did not, you did not ask and because you are dissatisfied you cannot ask for a break for the club but you can only submit a request to the Rules of Procedure Committee. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48567	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, due to the new situation, please pause on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48568	You're wrong, but I'm giving you a break from 10 minutes to 12.45. Croatian Labourists?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48569	Same reason we're looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48570	HDSSB?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48571	Also vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48572	Thank you very much. [[MEETING IN 12.32 HOURS]] [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.45 HOURS]] There's a teammate named Ivan Shuker at the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48574	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So intervention on behalf of the club that the Prime Minister must simply be in the assembly under this item of the agenda because we simply cannot ignore today what happened when this Rules of Procedure was adopted. This Rules of Procedure is simply... to give the Prime Minister one unlimited power, so that in Parliament he can behave as he wills, to do what he wills, at the end of the day it is demonstrated today because Article 128 clearly states that his address, in the opening of this agenda, could be 60 minutes, but he continued for three and a few more minutes, without respecting him that the President of the Parliament warned him that he had crossed over. After the introduction of several clubs apparently the Prime Minister is not interested in another opinion, he is not interested in what someone else will say, he is not interested in what the European Commission will say, he is not interested in what Croatian defenders will say, he is not interested in what the Croatian doctors say, he is not interested in what the unemployed Croats say, he is not interested in what the mothers, children, parents of the dead Croatian defenders in Vukovar say, so he is not interested in anything. He simply has his opinion and says what he likes and doesn't want to hear anyone and nothing, and why he should be wasting his time here today with contempt for MPs in the Croatian Parliament that he listens to them here, because who are the parliamentary representatives that he sits here and listens to what they tell him, what they warn him about. Well, you'll probably hear something smart from all these discussions. But if we are these Rules of Procedure, at least that's what the ruling coalition said, to improve the work of this Parliament, to raise the level of debate in one other way, to a more quality level and height, what happens to us today? So we heard the Prime Minister in the opening, saying how much he wanted and what he wanted, when he no longer wanted to hear what the MPs were saying, he simply left, without the chairman, it was very important, he warned at the time that the Prime Minister had to leave and that someone else would be there. However, in order for this to happen, colleagues and colleagues this Rules of Procedure have clearly defined how we must behave in this House. Among other things, Article 121 states that the government determines a member of the government or a deputy minister for its representatives in the Assembly to discuss the draft laws and other acts. Also on the current morning, here is counterpart Milinovic, who experienced this, that he could not ask whom he wanted but as suggested by the club. So the club suggested asking Minister Ostojic, and counterpart Milinovic in his question delivered by the club had to ask the president a question. counterpart Milinovic was not allowed to ask the question because the chairman of full law followed the Rules of Procedure. I'm just trying to pull a parallel on how certain things are done. As for Article 121, we did not receive any written material, so Col. Salapic asked for a break. It is not clear to me that at all the agenda item can be put on the agenda so that nothing is obtained, it is not written that this report in the assembly will be attended by the Prime Minister and let's say two vice presidents who, in the event of the emergency departure of the Prime Minister, may be in the Parliament. If they had written that, we wouldn't be able to object to article 121, but it's not written. Why, then, who are these parliamentary deputies to get the Prime Minister down to their level and to account for them. So in addition to everything that has been presented without a vision, without an analysis of the existing situation and without a vision of how to solve these major problems, with everything that is happening in relations with Brussels because, look, it is not enough that Mrs Merkel in the euphoria of electoral victory in Germany clearly at the press conference says what is Croatia's problem. It's for us, not for us, but it's obviously not enough for the Prime Minister to figure out what the problems are. And that's why colleagues and colleagues, I believe that if we're going to hold on to our dignity, to the dignity of this High House, and you colleagues from the ruling coalition voted this Rules of Procedure, no one else voted him, we were fat against him. This debate cannot continue until the only one who can listen comes to the debate, who can only end us in his final 20 minutes, which is the president of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48575	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48576	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Every once in a while, but more and more frequently, the dignity of the Croatian Parliament is being disrupted. I'm not going to argue for the first time that actually Parliament is just a fig leaf or a self-service for the prime minister, takes what it needs, pays nothing, voting machine. Mr. Prime Minister knew there would be a report in the Croatian Parliament today. I think it was the last time someone paid their respects, which is why it's not at the very beginning of the meeting, as it says in the Rules of Procedure, and that's when it was said because it was just this Tuesday. And now we're supposed to believe it, and even if it is, it's not more important than what I'm about to say, we should believe it has important state affairs. Probably Mrs. Merkel came forward with the news that she gave in, that she could hold off on lex perkovic up to 1.7. I think the irony is clear. I think it's disrespect for the MPs. That Mr. Prime Minister does not respect the opposition, quite understandable from his behaviour but he does not respect the Kukuriku coalition either. Because they are here today to listen to opposition colleagues, to listen to their colleagues from their clubs and to finally see the prime minister's reactions. However, it has been clarified to us, the vice president of the Croatian Parliament explained that he would be told. I think it is also underestimating parliamentary representatives and by the vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Well, then you don't need to, you know, the Prime Minister can watch it on TV in his room, send us a letter saying that he was watching, that he says hello to us all, and that he wants us to work pleasantly and further. They're being discriminated against by those clubs that won't talk, and they're talking to the president so he can hear. Of course he's talking to his voter, too, because this is our political party. But forgive me for saying so, and the Prime Minister's basic rudeness doesn't be here when he submits the report. Imagine if we got up and got out of the O.R. when he filed the report. That would be the same thing. What would they say? That it's uncultural, that it's savage, that we don't know how to act, that it's non-democratic, that we've shown our true face, and that the real face is often shown here in the Parliament when the Prime Minister takes his word, when he can't take his word. Today he said a sentence that startled me when he timed out. I was interrupted several times after the first second. He timed out, then he said he was probably in the public interest. It's in the public interest order, law, legality. It's in the public interest for the prime minister to time his speech for an hour. He hasn't said anything in an hour but hundreds of statistics that don't mean anything to viewers. It really could, we could get that... Why didn't we get the written material so we could really discuss what he was going to do? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who can debate after an hour of Prime Minister's speech on the speech? There's no genius with having to, I can't keep my mouth shut, remember that the Prime Minister often used to say you're reading. You make fun of readers who read, today he said he would read so he wouldn't get confused because he probably got recommendations that we should calm down, that we should not be encouraged by the Parliament, but simply calm down the situation. However, in the most important issues we wanted to hear about the recovery of the economy, about everything that bothers Croatian citizens, about an increasing number of unemployed people, about why we are a country that has had a higher number of unemployed even in the tourist season. We have not heard about this, we have heard that he will continue to fight with equal passion for lex Perkovic, for the truth in Croatia. The truth in Croatia is not so, the truth in Croatia is dreary, but the truth in Croatia is that people get on the nerves of these topics and people just ask again why the Prime Minister, why do you care and why? Why didn't you mention that Croatia has a 4% deficit and that on the basis of the deficit, it is based on its development rather than on a law that allows let's say that the suspect in the serious murders lives on the loose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48577	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48578	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Not disdaining your key role in the Government and your presence here in the Croatian Parliament except that we have tried for months to get a quality Rules of Procedure which is the basis of the work and activities of the Croatian Parliament. I think unfortunately today we are not sitting in the assembly, to talk about the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia not only in a year, but in the past 22 months. It is something to be interested in all of our citizens, our people who follow the meeting of the Parliament and who expects not only to expose the prime minister statistically or seminarically what would be if it were and not good because it is good, but what needs to be changed, which in Croatia sometimes should be acknowledged that it is not going in the right direction. That's the quality of politicians and statesmen, then. Unfortunately, a constructive debate has turned into a destructive one. If today we fell to this day to explain whether we are entitled to Articles 248 or 249. Rules of Procedure or Articles 128 and 129. The Rules of Procedure to have our Prime Minister be today on the day that he knew that we would discuss all this with us MPs then it was unfortunate. Today was supposed to be an important day for politics and for the political life of Croatia. Not only is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia sitting here, but the entire government. Because the government's responsibility is to run the country after the last 22 months. And if we're going to outsmart ourselves whether someone writes about the breach of the Rules of Procedure in writing and gets an answer within 48 hours or not, new topics will come up, new problems. Today was supposed to be an important day for Croatia and respected Vice-Presidents of the Parliament if we had taken such measures and provisions of the Rules of Procedure, then we should have predicted that there might be a higher power or a higher obligation if it were the national state interests of Croatia, and that it would then say in the Rules of Procedure that if the Prime Minister was prevented, the first vice president or one of the Deputy Prime Ministers, that is, you did not do so and you could. So I invite you also on behalf of the HDSSB Club to set up a recess in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to invite the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to return to the Assembly today and to conclude today with a constructive debate and with our views whatever they may be, whoever they like, they don't like. Sometimes it is also a criticism that can improve the quality of the government's work and the government's president and all members who should be responsible for their work and their portfolios in the government. This is not an evil intention and the need to fully report for the breaks and injuries of the Rules of Procedure, but this is a good wish and will of all clubs in the Croatian Parliament to finally get the importance given to us by not the representatives of the Government or the prime minister, but by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48579	We have established by our Rules of Procedure that the Prime Minister is orally submitting the Annual Report on the work of the Government. He ordinarily proposed, i.e. explained the government's work, will also give a final report. So, the Prime Minister participates in the work of the Croatian Parliament, and in moments when for objective reasons he cannot be in the assembly here is the Deputy Prime Minister. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48580	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister. I said I don't want to diminish your important role in the government, so here's what I've agreed to do with this part, if we're going to speak orally, then I haven't brought any more weight or documents to speak from them, but then I will address when I can't address the Prime Minister I will address citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Every day is important and it was one of the important political electoral messages in the Kukuriku coalition campaign. The coalition that you have gathered before the election 22 months from today when we talk about the work of your government, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic and all of you who are responsible and who have said that by Plan 21 which was the electoral platform, one of the strongest foundations of your victory in the elections, that of that day, led by Zoran Milanovic, the president of your government, you take responsibility for Croatia. And a lot has really happened in the past 22 months, but also in recent years of Croatian independence and statehood. What we all did together, all the Governments, regardless of who in these governments was and not what could be learned from the government led by your late Prime Minister Ivica Racan, whom we consider to be a statesman and politician who, at the moment he estimated he could no longer maintain a stable coalition, withdrew and called early elections because he realized then that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and state policy in general was going in the wrong direction. And he is a responsible politician for us and he is a statesman and a man who then called the elections in your power and admitted responsibility for Croatia. You today, your government, I address you all because there is no Prime Minister, let the citizens know that in the prime minister's report after 22 months, in no part of the report, there was no recognition that in some segments of our society, primarily state finances, in the economy, in investments, in agriculture that something was wrong and that something should change. To me today, the report by the Prime Minister and us at the HDSSB club seemed to be pre-election promises, as some new Plan 21, because this hand-to-heart, which is not a shame to admit, is no longer in 80% of those election platforms. And if that's not the case, we don't have to say just the opposition in the House or the HDSB's Club of Representatives, I think it's the best thing one of your former members of the party and the government that we in the HDSB have really appreciated, your former Minister Mirela Holly. Which is the only one of you and your government has shown that he has attitude, responsibility and strength. And we respect that. We respect even the efforts of your Minister Linic, who was here with us in the evening until half past ten in the evening, explaining the Consumer Credit Act, the Income Tax Act and which showed that even on his birthday as a responsible minister, he could be with his representatives. And good for him. We're not gonna be rude, so let's just say nothing's wrong. Because that's not the role of the opposition in the HDSSB club. Our role is 7 of our mandates in Slavonia, we are primarily responsible not for the President of the Government Milanović but for our citizens, Slavons and Baranjas, and for all those who have difficulty living in our Slavonia. Our Prime Minister told Slavonia that God had given me a dry hand if I forgot Slavonia and Baranja. When there were farmers' protests this summer, and they were, and that problem existed, the Prime Minister didn't do well to go among those people and say you have a problem? I'm your president, I'll handle it. Where there is the responsibility of the Prime Minister and the man who should and the ordinary man who is having a hard time living today, it is not a flossula, it is not just a form that opposition should be spoken against what the government or the Prime Minister is saying, that is what really happened in Slavonia and Baranja. And he can't say that they drive expensive tractors, that they bought I don't know what kind of machines to process their country because unfortunately these Slavons and Barans and farmers aren't the owners of these tractors, but they own banks that can take over these tractors every day, take their machines and have nothing anymore. Something went wrong in the farm. As a representative club, we have proposed 600 million kuna amendments to the state budget twice. We've been rejected, we're sure no one's even read it. And today we see in the reports that the aid is missing from the 650 million kuna. We found according to our proposal where you can be taken to give. However, no one has admitted that there is a problem there. And the prime minister says on the current watch that he is calling for dialogue. So who should the President of the Croatian Government conduct dialogue with if not with citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, with farmers, with students, with students, with healthcare professionals, with doctors, nurses, with employees in the state administration and with the public sector? So that there are problems in Croatia there are and that is what we are all aware of. And what is the way of responsibility to those who run politics? And what is the way towards the responsibility of the one who has been waiting for 8 years in opposition to take power in Croatia and we were hoping then that this responsibility and this taking over of power has its own stability, that this Plan 21 is not only every day is important but it is Croatia and it is important for our citizens. What we have received today by entering the EU if our citizens live poorly, if our Prime Minister, for the first three months after his outsmart in a certain area, and I respect Minister Orsat Milenic as justice minister, is expert in that part of the job he is doing, I am sure that he, as a minister and a lawyer, has no answer to that question because there is no answer. As a responsible authority, we then assumed obligations not only in the part of the judiciary, but it is the fate of Croatia. It was also the dream of the late Franjo Tudjman from the EU to the NATO Pact, to a free, independent Croatia, and today to the European Croatia. We didn't need that shame and disgrace. And you need to be a responsible man in front of the people, not in front of us, we'll say it's wrong, this is good, but this is bad. He should have admitted I was wrong, my exclusive view of the matter is an exclusive attitude. As a representative club, we will support the amendments to the Constitution, 7 of us will vote for it not because of it, because of the Prime Minister of the Government but because we believe that every crime in Croatia was committed by the Libyan, Partisan, Ustasha or Chetnic, because we are responsible, sovereign, independent state that protects human rights and that at all times needs every citizen regardless of nationality and religion, after the Homeland War, after Vukovar respect and gives him the importance of whether he is a Serb or a Croat. You are all citizens and they are all citizens of Croatian citizens of any nationality and we respect that, but we ask that what is an important issue be understood. I will mention Vukovar, not only should it be mentioned when it is necessary to lead a policy on whether the Vukovar Defence Staff is right or not, whether some are more or less right politically or not, but it should be acknowledged that there is a problem in Vukovar and that the Prime Minister is as responsible as the statesman and politician should have gone there even if it does not go there, even if there is no dialogue. But he didn't even go there. He said we're the country that should respect what we brought. We should, we agree on that. And who was able to assess today in 2013 how much will the wounds of Vukovar hurt? Who could have estimated how deep those wounds that occurred in the war would have been? No one. But we need to build a co-existence. And much has been done in the process of peaceful reintegration, much has been done for some areas and in former policies and structures in Croatia. And what are we witnessing today? That areas of special state concern have 10 times less resources than they have in the past time during the former government run by Mrs Kosor, that no one appreciates that there are 2.5 times more unemployed than the average of the Republic of Croatia. Now these are the wounds of Vukovar, these are the wounds of Vukovar in 2013, and they will heal the wounds for a long, long time on our long, long journey to a normal European policy. That's what we stand for. And we're not rude, we're not saying that what the Prime Minister did was wrong, but it's not worth 80% of it. It should be acknowledged that Plan 21 no longer exists. We were talking about education about investing in young people, we were passing laws that had expanded and opened those horizons, we were harmonising with the EU acquis, but no one mentioned today, and neither did the Prime Minister, how many planes from the Republic of Croatia went to Canada, how many colleagues who ended up without a job in Croatia and how many of them today have no ticket for a train to go to my Osijek or go out with their company and drink coffee, and they have diplomas, speak several languages and have no opportunity to work. Personally, I was a member of the State Judicial Council, and we received 5.6 candidates who speak 3.4 languages, and unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, they are unemployed. And only an irresponsible politician who has no position on anything can say that roses bloom in the Republic of Croatia. There's a problem, when we passed a law on higher education and science, even some colleagues from the ruling Flego coalition and others disagreed with that law, there are also holes. Mr. Craiger had a great discussion about it. We are not there to belittle each other but to respect attitudes if they are even the opposite of what you expect or even if we disagree but we are colleagues and we run politics. If we said in the debate we asked Minister Orsat Milenić to return to the judiciary, do you have the green light of Berlin then because Angela Merkel was important those days for Croatia as Chancellor Genscher was when he first came to Zagreb after the Vatican to recognise Croatia's independence and independence, we called on whether we had the green light of these people and Brussels because we were consciously going to the EU. It's not just your EU policy, so it's politics and former governments and HDZ and all of us together, so we all voted for it. The HDSSB also voted for Croatia's EU entry, but then we asked if we were ready for it. Are we ready to assume fully European commitments. We were all meant to be, and we were embarrassed at the first step. We withdrew even the very threat of sanctions which was even bad and even unnecessarily necessary for Croatia. We have been making statements for three months whether Mr. Perkovic will be extradited to Germany or not. It is not a matter of the people of the Republic of Croatia or of our citizens or of anyone, it is a matter of our obligations to the EU. We are a responsible state and we have said yes, we are for a European arrest warrant. We will keep constitutional changes, we support that our citizens are tried in the Republic of Croatia, but we also support that as a responsible country, we assume them fully, and that means that we are ready to act on a European arrest warrant because this is our obligation. No one will hitchhike the Schengen Agreement, nor will we bring Mr Mimica, who we can also say we appreciate, and he is a European politician who has done much in chapter 23 together with us all here when he was in opposition. We traveled together a few times abroad, and we didn't embarrass ourselves with people like that, but now we've embarrassed him as the first Commissioner from the Republic of Croatia on the commission who had to say something, but unfortunately he couldn't say anything because it wasn't going. This was supposed to be a joint agreement between the president of the Croatian government, who should have told us all about it. None of the laws in Croatia, nor any of the highest legal documents, will change because of anyone and should not. Is the gentleman concerned guilty or not it will be decided by the judiciary and not by us. We are the policy we need to make, we are the service of citizens, we need to pass laws that will be applicable in our country from which people will benefit. What did we do when we passed 500 laws, regulations, regulation with legal force, if we were to walk in Osijek and Vukovar and Vinkovci and Rijeka and Split and Zagreb today to ask ordinary citizens, what do you think about the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Are we in need of early elections and should we recognize the responsibility that something is going the wrong way? We at the HDSSB Club advocate exactly that, we advocate early elections if the Prime Minister can't be the spirit that comes and goes from the Parliament, which speaks or doesn't speak to us and who tells us and our club representatives that we are a burden, that regional policies and today we heard it in the report sometimes because they burden society. They're burdening the country as a whole. So I think that Europe and European policy Europe is the region of the future and the EU, and thus Croatia. You proposed in Plan 21 three regions, now you have reached a decision of two statistical regions. We suggested five in the debate. No one took us seriously, and that's what we wanted not to think we were going to discuss. Will these 5, if Croatia is divided into five regions, benefit better from the withdrawal of funds from the European Union or not? We gave arguments about our interpretation and we wanted to discuss it, to respect us. And we voted for your laws and suggestions when we thought it was good. We can't say that some of Mr. Linic's moves are bad if they're good. Because they are all good for us, for Croatia, not for us. We are here in office, our mandate may be good or bad, our work in the Parliament may be good or bad but we are only in office. Our workbooks are not in the Employment Office, but in the hands of our voters, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will decide whether you as a majority led Croatia in the right direction. And the merits that don't belong to you alone don't even need to be taken over. We have heard today about a number of billions of kunas, some optimistic announcements, that everything is fine, so it's not bad to talk like that, it's not bad to pour optimism. But the truth of colleagues and colleagues, citizens are depressed, in distress, they don't know where they're going with them. The biggest rebellion was also fear when it was announced that the allowed defaults on current accounts would be abolished, then general confusion arose. Because we've heard that more than 2.5 million citizens are down. Then we can't drill for national pride anymore and say that we've done everything if our people live badly, if there's no future, if today's student learns at colleges and takes exams and when he gets out he's on the street. He's an unemployed person and unnecessary to our society. Because we did not ensure, or you who took responsibility did not ensure the conditions for such people to get a job and that they could live happily in Croatia. It says there, it doesn't say, but I took a phonogram, it wasn't written, it was oral, so I read that we're going to live happily ever after, so God forbid we live happily ever after. And to respect each other, to respect the views of other politicians and parties and the options that are represented in the Croatian Parliament. We're all worth the same. We're all worth one vote. Nothing more. Nothing more or less. And that will be decided by those who chose us here. We call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reason. The fact that sometimes the time has come to admit, to admit that you have made a mistake and that Croatia with plan 21 is no longer going anywhere, that this plan does not exist. And you have mechanisms, most of them in the Parliament, we can't bring you down. Only the people who challenged you can destroy you. You have mechanisms to change your policy towards the citizens and towards all of us because you have a majority in the Parliament, you have instruments that and you will and you will and you won't call the elections, so you don't have to if you don't want to. We won't force you down. We invite you to be responsible, we're fed up with conflict, demonstrations, ordered facebook protests, some so-called. new people who are destroying the state and have no idea what the state is in general. They have no idea how heavy it is to carry a government but we can't act like everything is good and there's no problem. If we act like this, you're irresponsible government and we're not a burden to anyone as an opposition. A constructive opposition that has quality proposals and laws that we propose to solve the problem should be one not weight to the government but one correction, one wind to the back that the Prime Minister can also be called on, so here you all bring it, now we're all responsible for it. Now it's not me and you are, and he doesn't respect us. Today, when some colleagues spoke, he laughed. Because it's so funny what someone's saying, it's really very funny, we should all laugh in Croatia today. We suggested on behalf of the HDSSB Club that we discuss Vukovar in Parliament. We've collected 52 signatures from the Rules of Procedure and we've handed over that item of the 82nd agenda whether it's going to be this year or not, ask God. But we didn't go with demeaning anyone and endangering anyone's rights. We went after each other to help each other. Croatia will be European once it understands itself and every authority will be responsible for how much responsibility it is to its people and not to us. We're passersby here. And some of our colleagues who look at us at home may be sick of us working from the Croatian Parliament today, trying to get around the Rules of Procedure, about whether anyone has a right to say something or not. So we have thus not only offended politics in general but in the most important House of the Croatian Peoples, and throughout history was once spoken the Reverend Croatian Assembly. Because the Croatian Parliament, in key moments national to Croatia, has kept a key word for politics, for the state and for the people. And your government and your government have done that we agents have become empty chairs, that today when we come here to wonder what you're doing, to discuss the salaries of MPs, that we're unemployed, that we're beating up empty straw and that people live badly. Our government came out of the majority in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament and you, most of the Kukurik coalitions have already concluded that you accept the report, the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and accept the measures announced by the prime minister as the key measures for Croatia's exit from the crisis and we clubs have not yet finished. We haven't said everything we have to say to the end yet. It also says that the Parliament has unfortunately become a mechanism for fulfilling the wishes of individuals, for a firm government leadership where no one can say anything. And neither did Mr. Health Minister, last week at the current clock, had an answer to the question when we asked if the Prime Minister had met with protesters, with the union, with doctors and nurses to say, he went out when he was on the clock, and the president said that he had a great burden, not he had as Prime Minister a burden and he was the first, he was prime minister and couldn't give answers at those times when 80% of the people didn't work, when the security of our citizens could not give an answer to the minister but should be given to the Prime Minister. And there's no taking responsibility for others if he's responsible for this government's bad moves. And then you have to admit, and I'm gonna say it one more time. Many politicians in Croatian history could learn a lot. For those of us who live easier today than they are. I mentioned the edge of Racan, and I'll do it again, we respect him because he was a responsible politician. Because he estimated at which point it was enough, at which point he should give an opportunity to others. You've had your chance for eight full years. You were a loud opposition, you said a lot and you didn't do anything. [[Intruder: Finalize the debate.]] And we invite you today to finally be responsible for Croatia and to acknowledge that plan 21 does not exist and that we need to call the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48581	Thank you very much. And before we break, we'll hear one more club. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48582	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. My ideal from this position of speakers on behalf of the club from this constituency booth is that one day I speak in front of an empty booth because it seems to me that we should all face such an experience of talking to empty benches. Not because it's better than saying something else empty, but because it seems to me that everyone who stays and wants to hear the opinion of another person in this hall is worthy of special respect. So every one that's stayed here and wants to hear the ones that are left as the next speakers, regardless of whether it's one or five or 30 of us now in the hall, is worth every respect. Every one who isn't here will surely be denied for not great wisdom and incredibly many new things, but for one experience that won't happen again. In that sense, I also think, I don't know what the Prime Minister's obligations are and I don't know what nature is, but he's reporting to this Parliament. That report was good, despite the view of many that it was not good enough, but it was, perhaps one of the best reports he had submitted to this House. And in that sense, it is a pity that the prime minister has been prevented, as is the pity that the president of the main opposition party has been prevented. ... I say the pity is that the president of the leading opposition group is also not here, not because he did not file the report, but because he needs to hear what the others have to say, even when they have nothing to say, but to see the state of the matter of our policy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now let me say two or three words about it. First of all, we do not need to tell each other how difficult it is in the country and if we listen to people we meet in the market or who we meet on the street or who we live in the neighborhood or possibly in the tram if we drive by public transport, we will all hear what they actually think, not about politics, party, this or that but what they think about the state of our country and our society, and they do not think anything well and are ultimately cut off in this regard, disappointed and without expectations. There is no doubt that it is not only the merit of these governments or the ruling coalition, it is the legacy of 20 years and a few years. But what this government is expected to do is start to change it. What is expected of this government is that it starts to change in such a way that it will be better tomorrow. No one in this country is unprepared to suffer except for those hangers, and those are becoming less and less. There are, but they are not the main Croatian force, they are not what Croatia should rely on. And in that sense, for us, the prime minister has devoted a lot of time to economic issues, with the right. And I will if you allow me to dedicate two topics, three topics. The first question is the issue of our party, political, daily creation of constitutional and political crises in our society and the validation of fundamental constitutional values in the Republic of Croatia. We, because of the various party-political interests which are not as secular as the daily-political interests, are once in office of this one, and for the second time in the function of another, we are actually the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution constantly trying to offend. Antifascism, secularism, national equality, equality of citizens and social justice. Aren't those the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution? Don't we bring them in every day in an unscrupulous way? We're bringing it in. If we do not thus produce uncertainty constitutionally and do not bring our citizens into confusion that they do not know what the values of which to believe are, what are the highest values that this country protects. Why? In our case, antifascism has driven into anti-communism as is unfortunately being promoted in the good part of the EU, so we pretend blindly not to see right-wing neofascists in Greece killing young members of the left opinion, so we do not see what the right hand is doing in Hungary towards members of national minorities or in the Czech Republic, but we try to tamble on a dead donkey by inventing something that is no longer alive. Is that fair to your own country? It's not. Is that fair to the existing state? It's not. Is that fair to the facts? Absolutely not. When it was meant to end, we each ended up in our own way, someone with this belief, someone with another. And let's devote ourselves to what's a real danger. The real danger in Croatia is not pro-Communist graphics. The real danger in Croatia is the pro-Tastian neo-Nazi graphics that you can see on every street and every square and here I was talking about. It's our danger. The real danger is not songs that would be sung like Kozara or Sutjeska, but the real danger is Jure and Boban and the chieftain who sings at weddings, birthdays and others. Only so much when we're talking about some of the fundamental values of this one. The other thing I want to say is Croatia has decided and kept its secularity and during the most difficult years of the war, neither in the most difficult years of the war, nor in the most difficult years of the war, it has happened to mix the relationship between the state and the church and the public kept it maximum and it was known where the place was including symbolic. It's not like that today. Both colleagues and colleagues, we representatives of political parties, no matter what color we are and what beliefs and what worldview it must stop contributing to jeopardizing one of the fundamental values such as secularity in the Croatian Constitution. We can also discuss the issue of health care, school education, but there is no doubt it must be a secular matter first. It must be primarily a matter of school authorities, it must be primarily a matter of state. You can talk to everyone else, but it's an area that belongs primarily to the state. And in this respect, we should not allow it to expand its impact on society and on the public, which will limit the secularity sphere. Unfortunately, when social justice is making them smaller and smaller, they are getting smaller and that is the problem that is primarily plagued by the left government, the left government that seeks to preserve some of the rights acquired while at the same time implementing measures that objectively endanger these rights. In this respect, there is no doubt in this respect that the left government must consider modifying its economic policy, Mr. Vice President. The efforts that seem to be in the sphere of fiscal policy are in many ways such that citizens, regardless of what they are asked to give up, whatever they are asking for discipline, support them. But efforts in the sphere of economic policy, development policy, industrial policy, energy policy, unfortunately, are still such that we do not see results. I know it takes more time, but there is also no doubt that if we continue with fiscal policy measures, and there is no progress in economic policy that will happen that the car of fiscal policy will break because it will not be able to endure. I know you're aware of that. I don't think there's any doubt, that there's no need for me from here on the phone telling you what it takes to do it. But that's a place that requires a stronger effort. As regards the equality of members of the national minorities lately, the whole story of members of the national minorities has been brought down to the issue of Cyrillics, one of which is part of political parties and non-partisan groups and institutions, while it is one of the letters of Slavic literacy from which the cradle of total Slavic literacy is then Croatian. And not just literacy, but the overall science of the Christian. To participate in the demonization of this letter because of the victim, the undisputed sacrifice suffered by the citizens of Vukovar and which we should respect and which we should worship is absolutely inappropriate and uncivilization. And you should insult those who want to bow down to those victims to the victims themselves. And for that reason, let me say a few words as to why it is important to stop this kind of activity according to the measures the government has taken, it has taken the first step. We felt that this step was sufficient and that it took time to take the next step. If that's our position, then that's the position we should respect. We don't insist on full law enforcement, but on as much as possible right now, as far as the state can make out of respect for itself. But let me tell you this, when it comes to the housing of former homeowners, if 30,000 people have lost tenant rights in the period of '91. By '93, to this day through the housing program of those 30,000 families, everything may have been about 3,000 taken care of. These dwellings were not given to them, they earned them, and like all of us who had the right to live in the land, I do not belong among them. In this year, 250 apartments were assigned last year, none in this year. We have to change that, that's what people expect. About social infrastructure, 42 return villages remain without electricity. Villages that had electricity until '95. HEP says there's no money, the state doesn't see that these villages don't have electricity, and I'm here saying these villages need electricity. 42 return settlements have no electricity. When it comes to the development of return environments here, counterpart Salapic said that in these areas the unemployment rate is double compared to the rest of Croatia, about 50, somewhere 70% is the unemployment rate. That is why Serbs do not return, and the emigrated Croats therefore move to Germany where they may have relatives, to Canada where they think they have a better chance. And we call it still areas of special state concern. I'm just waiting for a chance for them to tell us to go to hell with you and your care if you take care of us like that. And that's not billions, that's not that 190 billion public debt. This is not even the 40th and some billion deficits of the state, it is only a few dozen million kunas that we should ensure that these people living in conditions that are far away, far from the conditions in which the average Croatian family therefore live in the conditions of the most difficult Croatian poor to get the chance to start changing. And our Constitution, based on the principle of equality, guarantees it, but of course we don't understand our Constitution that way, we understand it in the appropriate way. Employment of members of national minorities unfortunately declines, does not grow although two or three action plans have been adopted by the end of Croatia's entry into the EU but the result is not an increased number of members of the Serb community, not in the police, not in the administration, but in the judiciary. And not just members of the Serb community, but all other members of the national minorities. People are rebelling against Cyrillic. Why aren't minority Serbian schools in eastern Slavonia registered? What's the problem? We have Czech, Jewish, Italian, Hungarian. We said that Croatian and Serbian are not the same languages, we said they were not the same cultures. So what's the problem with these schools being registered as minority? We said the Serbs were minority and we accepted it. Some of us paid a special price because of this acceptance at the stage when it wasn't popular. What's the problem with being accepted and registered so that after that we can talk about the program whether it's best or not, is it better or is it enough? And in the end, I'd like one more thing, there's been a lot of talk here today and these days about lex perkovic. This is our obligation to meet, I mean to respect the provisions of the Law on Judicial Cooperation with the EU, and I said from this speaker as soon as possible and I will repeat it again. But that is our thing. Our relationship with the EU cannot be limited to the question of lex Perkovic. Even when we see the need to be even and not when we see the need to determine the facts about what to do in such matter and in such things. Our relationship with the EU needs to be built and there is no doubt that it requires special wisdom, wisdom as advocate Radin has said that from the place where we currently hanged our coat we will come to a chair from which we will be able to work in the interest of our own people or in the interest of our own nation. But for those who are not critically still looking at the EU's epithets of friendship, the epithets of a historic place I would just like to say politics is each and most of all European set of interests and above all a set of values.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48583	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48584	And in that sense, colleagues and colleagues, no matter which foreigners we belong to, it is our duty to dedicate ourselves to the values of our Constitution first and foremost. It is our duty to devote ourselves to the needs of our citizens above all else. It is our duty to dedicate ourselves to Croatia first of all. And it is a great honor for Mrs. Merkel to win her victory, but Croatia should be, above all, the victory of Croatia in what the needs of Croatian citizens are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48585	Thank you very much. We will now take a break by 15.00 hours and the first in line will be the SDP club and colleague Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48586	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can continue our work. It is up to SDP advocates' club and respected counterpart Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48587	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I cannot resist not remembering our debate on amending the Rules of Procedure when it was said that the introduction of the Prime Minister's report to the Parliament was an opportunity to give him recognition, applause and advocacy. I have to admit, I didn't experience it today. And now I remember the inconvenience of all these announcements. What is more today is that criticism is even considered an insult when there is no one to listen to exposure. I won't find it offensive, but I'm still a little embarrassed to speak without members of this right-hand side. I'm also embarrassed to hear the interruption, laughing when the prime minister is talking about very serious things. But now that you've set up, we can begin the debate and the exposure. I don't know if I'm ignoring intruders or talking, but. Please ask him after the session is over, and this is not the place to discuss it. I must say, I'm assessing the presentation and the Prime Minister's report very well. Far from just the style he was announced because the report is very..., completely, does not stir up feelings and emotions, is rich in data and announcements of everything the government is preparing. But this is an opportunity not only to talk about the report but to talk about the government. This is a government that deserves support and trust. Support deserves because in difficult times, the task that politicians do not normally like is to solve problems that have existed for a long time and that have not been talked about, that have been pushed under the carpet and hidden from the public or have not been considered important. Shipyards, railways, debt reduction, inefficient state-owned enterprises, infrastructure status, energy all these were areas where there were no good solutions for years. It took courage and needed support in dealing with such difficulties with the government. I know it's tiring to listen to numbers and we've heard numbers and yet we should mention them because they're trying to hide, which they're trying to ignore. And ignoring it is not that the fact that the crisis did not occur this year or for the period of this government, that it lasts more and that the rates of GDP decline have been ten times as high as the ones we have now. That doesn't mean anything because all I want to say here is that the government deserves support because it dares to deal with such difficulties. It was about the deficit. The prime minister noted that there was a situation, even some speakers from this place mentioned that budget deficits were not only about height but also about how to calculate, and some items were not small, such as shipbuilding. were unpronounced in what was the budget. The shipyards that this government has done, the health debts this government has done, were to be taken care of by the pension system, which seems to be good indications that the economy will not stand and that what has been promised here will be realised. Croatia and this is the real diagnosis has fallen into a closed circle of debt in which the new responsibilities must be covered by old obligations. It's a difficult situation, like it used to be, but the difference is she's not hiding. It is, however, so big that hiding was some kind of self-defense because only for the interest we are currently paying we could, say, build a Pelješki bridge that is wanted or we could make three clinical hospitals, equip them completely or we could build a low-level railway towards Rijeka. But you can't do that, and these are restrictions that are not solved by smiling or throwing away, but by serious work. What I particularly considered important was insisting on the need for financial consolidation, strengthening discipline and actually creating a rule of law and a real state as it should function. However, it is not what is important in the report or what the government has done only on the issue of the economy most important or on the unemployment issue highlighted in the report, but should mention many other areas in which the government's outstanding success should be welcomed. I want to concentrate most on three such areas. The first is the fact that in the area of justice we have implemented many necessary, necessary reforms. We had a situation where it was claimed that the judiciary in Croatia didn't work but we did have one extraordinary effort and campaign, I remember the expression of a week of good laws to resolve this situation. For this, the government has been granted a high recognition objectively. The second area to be mentioned is actually an area of foreign policy and relations. It was not noticed, though it was mentioned only on the way that Croatia became a desirable partner in the region. We're no longer the source of the problem, we're the partner he wants to get in touch with. We don't insult others, we don't provoke, however, the degree of relationship is better than ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48588	Guys, I'm asking you nicely not to throw it away. Respect your fellow counsel and let him speak in peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48589	You know, I know a bad conscience can shake a man emotionally, but don't act like it. The government also deserves trust because it speaks incontestably as an honest government. Some will say that it is easy when compared to its predecessors but most important to me is that it is the foundation of the trust it enjoys among citizens. The government deserves encouragement. Reforms, or reforms of the political system, should not be hesitated, nor when they are painful and will not cause general enthusiasm. Because reforms are necessary. And that's something where you don't have to refrain from doing those things and things that won't fit everyone and be at will. The people are also ready to accept difficult measures and strong reform procedures if they know the goal and if fair intentions are proved. However, the government's main legacy, the main problem inherited by greater debt, greater than unemployment, is greater than the deficit... One feeling and the expectation that the government can do anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government primarily suffers from the burdens of all feelings, feelings raised, all delays in wages, loss of profits, new poverty of peasants, all those who are victims of predatory capitalism. With this emotional charge should be counted on because the government accepts the principle of solidarity and will advocate interests and the position of all those who are in such social processes at risk. The era of peace, not just with us, globally, has come to an end. Now we're paying the bills of everything we didn't do in time. Allow me one thing about something that's not contained in the government's report, but I think you should say it. The public often discusses the character and psychology of leading people. Carefully commenting on their popularity as if it were more important than the jobs they do, carefully commenting on their properties, character, temperament. That's what it's all about. Public space becomes polluted by trivialities, character assessments, speculation about conspiracy. In this they all find a basis for joy and ridicule but such an attitude means actually closing their eyes in front of the public, running away from the real problems. I also think that this government is characterized by the courage to deal with problems and to honestly say and say something critical about its success. But it is certain for this government that it cannot be characterized as a government that seeks cheap popularity. That's something to notice. I will be more open and clear if I have to, my remark concerns both the government and the opposition because both bear responsibility for this House not being a chateau even less,... The one where he argues, but to be the place where he decides and argues, thank you for throwing him away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must not allow the public and political scene to become the area of competition between the PR agencies and the permanent pre-election euphoria, but the area of serious dialogue. A good sign for me is the fact that the Prime Minister is talking to this House about the successes and he also mentioned the government's failures. Parliament often breaks up fights, throws, and too strong words. It's auctioned with emotion and moderation and brains look like smutty. A position as a party that is not true, we, with the government as a Parliament, bear and share responsibility. In view of the legislative body, we need to take seriously the remark on legislative optimism, the number of laws we pass, which will increase exponentially in the European Union because not only does the number affect quality but it slowly bites and trusts the system of rights. That's where we MPs take responsibility because that's what our decision is, and that's where we have the active action. Let me say a few more words concerning today's debate especially. Croatia is a member of the European Union, Croatia is in Europe but has therefore become part of the interest of the European Union. It is not only our interest, Europe's interest we are both in a good and bad way. In such a situation with us, it counts as a friend or a problem, as when, already changing according to circumstances. The misunderstandings and conflicts we have are being talked about, but is it forgotten that such conflicts and misunderstandings have passed other countries as well? Remember only Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Hungary, which as newly arrived, experienced criticism, warnings, convictions. But not only them, remember Ireland, France or the Netherlands which were not thrilled by what the European Commission proposes, but... the period has passed. Today, such problems pass Greece, Spain, Italy, Slovenia. That is why it is no wonder that we too are in a constant and continuous dialogue with the European Union, but here is the main thing that we are doing, what position and what strategy we are defending. I think we are defending a strategy of national interest, of Croatia's interest, and this government is working successfully and well. This is just the beginning. This government I say deserves trust and support, this is the government of good intentions. Do not judge her according to the personal preferences of a person or character, judge her according to the great tasks she has taken on herself, judge her according to the difficult circumstances in which she operates. Whether someone likes it or not, the government does it bravely and measuredly not to touch someone but to do what they're supposed to do. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48590	I thank and announce the club of HNS and my colleague, Joza Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48591	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If we shouldn't, at least not too much talk about the past, then we should probably talk about the present and the future, and that kind of speech here in the government's work assessment was mostly not there. If the situation is depressing and hopeless, what grades we've heard here, then it would be time to offer solutions to how to get out of this hopeless and depressing situation, and that's also not what we've heard here. If it calls for quick and early elections, then it should offer arguments why what comes after the elections will be better, and this also here in the Croatian Parliament today by discussing the report of the Prime Minister we have not heard. This government is absolutely not in a simple situation and should certainly support the difficult situation and the clear representation of the state's situation. It is not the manner of Croatian politics, at least it has not been so far. The real state and the economy and society have always been covered by some other well-looking elements, or impressions. The government should certainly be congratulated for its commitment to the protection of the fundamental values of democratic society, respect for the laws passed, respect for the rights and fundamental human rights and the rights of minorities. These are values under which no Croatian government should go. And if it can be understood that there are people, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are not satisfied with some law and its application, it is difficult to accept and it is almost impossible to understand that the responsible policy of any law is passed, and then when the time of its application challenges its own position. This is allowed for citizens, but politicians who should serve to overcome this difficult emotional conflict with some heavy law should not even be allowed and it is absolutely not understandable. It should be remembered, not for the sake of the past, but for the present and the future, in what situation the Government is in, first of all, on this economic plan. If it is known that this year, in 2013, only interest on loans that we have to repay is about 10 billion kuna and if it is known that the principal that we need to pay back about 20 billion kuna this year and if it is known that from the budget, and not from the pension system, we have to give 15 billion kuna, then it is 45 billion kuna that the government, or the Croatian budget, actually doesn't have at all. And when we talk about the budget that it's not a budget deficit, that it's not a broken pension system, that it's self-sustainable, that pensions can be paid out of a pension contribution, then those 15 additional billion from the budget would cover the budget deficit and the budget deficit would be zero. This is the situation in which Croatia is located. And if we add to these 45 billion others, the other 20 billion pension systems, 20 billion health systems, we come to 85 billion kuna of the total 130 billion kuna of the Croatian budget, and the remaining 45 billion remain for everything else, stays for education, stays for culture, stays for defence, stays for the police, stays for the judiciary, stays for agriculture. And these figures talk enough about what the Croatian government is in today and what it needs to deal with today. The Prime Minister mentioned some shifts that were made and some problems that lasted in Croatia more than 15 years and some 20 years that had not been solved as privatisation of the shipyard and those commitments that the state had made during that privatisation somewhere in the amount of about 10 billion kuna. The rehabilitation of the health system with about 3 and a half billion kuna, so only those two figures, and the resolution of the health system has lasted for 15 years. Only those two numbers when they add up are actually somewhere else at the level of our so threatening deficit this year. Governments should certainly also be supported on some other achievements, as is essential in fact an almost civilizational leap towards the legalisation of illegal construction. The issue that has also been delayed for all these 20 years, and certainly for the sake of state arrangements and its administrative solidity, is important that a register of voters, which also needs to be completed, is adopted, to provide for a unique record of social contributions, which will also allow not only a better financial situation, but also more justice in this delicate social area. The Croatian government, when compared to the governments of EU member states, is here somewhere on the average of their success, which speaks of how difficult the situation is. And this government is definitely trying very hard, but the decline in industrial production that was being talked about here and still the decline in gross social product at least slightly smaller in the last quarter than it was before is certainly not something that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can understand. It is true that this is an objectively difficult situation, but exhausted by a five-year crisis and with too much expectations from this Croatian government and every Croatian government, citizens are hard to understand and hard to understand that this government, when viewed objectively, is on average the success of European governments. However, this will not be enough and it certainly needs to be seen how the situation in all these programmes that we have talked about, and especially in terms of economic growth needs to be improved from this government is required more than is required from some government in some good or average circumstances. And this government, despite this being terribly difficult and not only in view of citizens' expectations, but also in view of its responsibility, must try to meet these increased demands in view of the time we are in. HNS's club also supports all announcements by the Prime Minister, especially those related to economic policy guidelines such as even a slight sale of the majority stakes in Croatia insurance and the Croatian postal bank, the monetization of highways that cannot even keep their own debts, the privatisation of our air carrier, in which we have been investing for twenty years money that could be put into education and some other vital functions of the state. And it is easy to say that this should not be privatised, but that economic growth needs to fill the budget and that is heard in the solutions we have heard today that need to increase economic growth and increase the competitiveness of the country. And that's all we heard today, and those two floscules you'll find in every program of every party of every institution. And those who offer an alternative and dictate over what the situation is so far offered the Croatian public nothing but those two empty phrases. In particular, we expect and support what Mr. Prime Minister has announced in terms of very important circular energy independence, i.e. raising the level of energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, irrigation as a problem that also lasts for 20 years has almost moved from place, designing the river rail route that has also been spoken of for decades, and nothing has happened, and it is certainly to welcome that the coordination for investment, as the Prime Minister said, has unblocked 7 projects of a heavy half billion kuna. Although some projects that weigh half a billion kuna should be unblocked, should we ask, as in both the public part and the political opposition, the Law on Strategic Investments? That investments can take place based on the applicable normal rules and procedures in the Croatian economy, then, of course, the law should not be passed, but we also support the adoption of this law and the focus of the Government on investments and further work of coordination as spoken by the Prime Minister. We also support the main guidelines for the use of European funds that have been spoken of here, which are water, irrigation, rural development, all almost self-comprehensible but it would be good for the government to develop a strategy for the operation of the Republic of Croatia in the EU and that we hear some indications of this strategy here in the Croatian Parliament. The EU funds account for less than 1% of the EU's budget and policies, if it decides on 50% of our jobs and 50% of our budgets, it is 50 times more. And that is why it is of course important that we know how we will treat European funds, it is 9 billion euros in money over the next 7 years. But it is even more important to see how we will strategically realise our interests that are not only about European funds. And it would be good to hear something about it, and certainly it would be good for the government, including the competent authorities of the Croatian Parliament, including the Croatian Parliament as a whole, to have a strategy for our action and the achievement of national strategic objectives in the EU. So, with all this being said, I only mention part of myself repeating that youth unemployment, which the Prime Minister spoke of as one of the greatest youth unemployment in Europe, is a fundamental issue to which it should be addressed, of course, not losing sight of these other values and activities. We have learned in Croatia in the last 20 years that the right to freedom of speech, the right to show its speciality that these are fundamental human or minority rights. The right to work is very rarely referred to as fundamental human rights. Those who are unable to achieve their right to work, all these other rights that we have adopted for the past 20 years actually don't make much sense if you can't live peacefully and freely from your work then this right, the fundamental rights that we are talking about, of course, that should certainly not be used by much. And therefore we particularly support the new measures announced by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, especially those concerning economic growth and the rise in competition of the Republic of Croatia. The club of HNS representatives will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48592	Thank you. I would like to invite my esteemed colleague, Jadranka Kosor, to present the views of the Club of Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and the representative of the HGS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues. It's good and I'm glad Mr. President that you're back with us because I'm going to repeat what we just did an hour ago, two of them were speaking here in the assembly, which is that according to the amendments of the Rules of Procedure here, it's going to be a report from the Prime Minister of the Croatian Parliament, and then it's logical that they only speak to the representatives of the clubs that the Prime Minister will be with us all the time, to follow what we're going to say because ultimately the Prime Minister here in this debate will have one last word in this debate that we won't be able to influence in any way. So I'm going to quote at the beginning this article 128. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament where we speak about what our mission is today and what it was the prime minister's task at the beginning. So, speak and submit a report as to how the observed phenomena of problems and the state of society, as well as the activities of the Government, say. So let's take the turn. About the state of Croatian society today. I'm going to say something that I think a lot of you are wearing as some kind of light-motive and in this debate, but maybe they didn't say it. So our company today is ladies and gentlemen of our colleagues and colleagues in a painfully divided moment. So we share very often not only on worldly topics. By the way, be said in my opinion, and often worldly topics produce or potentiate those who end up with their political work and their personal life, each other does not stand, so sometimes they are potentials on these differences more or less with the figure in their pocket which I think is very bad. Certainly for the fact that we share very often and on economic issues about how we see Croatia in the future, today, tomorrow, in 5, 10 or 15 years as we see it in the EU opinions are different and often divided, it is solely politics and all of us who live in politics and who represent Croatian citizens. What is also a fact when we talk about problems means our theme according to Article 128. The rules of procedure are that we also talk about problems. It's a big problem. What I see as a particularly big problem is that we obviously lost what was fragilely connecting us, meaning that consensus that existed for years, which still brought us together in critical moments around EU membership, seems to have disappeared as well. Of course, this key issue has been covered by all the debate in the country these days, or since the end of June of this year. This fragile community then fully diverges on those key problems that are plagued today by Croatia's government, which is also a budget deficit, deficit, unemployment. Here's the Prime Minister mentioned the number of unemployed in his report. By the end of today he will be somewhere, that number will be about 319 thousand. In August it was 313, but in September at the time of the current morning it was 315, today 319. So unfortunately, although we have closed somewhere not yet until the end of the tourist season, the number of unemployed is increasing, the number of employees is not increasing. And these are the problems we have to discuss today. So we agreed to talk today about sightings in Croatia. Well, I'd like to mention something that could still be heard in the debate today. It is actually good, although it has made it impossible for most MPs and MPs to say that they are expressing their opinion, their dilemmas, their opposition, it is actually good that there was no replica here because we would remain indefinitely, we would divide on some subjects to inrecognition that is quite certain. And what would often rule in Croatian society today, which is cacaphony, so that we all talk but not to hear each other very often. Well, then often in this assembly, I think it should really be possible for everyone to talk about their opinions even if we don't agree with him until the end. Recently, we have also witnessed this in Knin and I think that no matter how much we disagree with it or how bad it may be, no matter what it is in politics so often, if we despise it, we must allow it to speak. This has been the case since the term democracy was known, so it should also be in Croatia. What's one of the sightings that I've never heard of so far, I've been closely following all the exhibitions, is one phenomenon we're meeting, for example. that the Constitutional Court today, by its decisions, the Constitutional Court, to which we are increasingly and more and more addressing both citizens and individuals and political parties, all those who think that, for any reason, they are suspended, damaged to somehow fill the gaps of the pillars of the Croatian government, and we know who they are. It's the same one of the phenomena I've seen and that here in this debate I think should be pointed out. Certainly the phenomenon that we are all witnessing is that in Croatia there are extremely many angry, disappointed, apathetic people who do not trust anyone, especially those who do not trust us politicians, regardless of what we come from the left, right, from above or from below do not believe us. I am particularly concerned about the status and position of the Croatian Parliament in this regard. So in all the research I repeat it often take a look, what is and what is the perception of the Croatian Parliament. Nothing, so absolutely nothing. It is the same phenomenon, it is important to mention it because here we live in a system of parliamentary democracy. The Prime Minister and the Government are also responding in Parliament. Here we should make the key decisions but also the key consensus that we witnessed in the past. So, generally politics and it's one of the observed phenomena is on particularly low branches where they camp, and they divide in society and I'm coming back bigger and more and more pronounced so if you're not with us, then you're our enemy and then you're against us. A second and a different opinion is difficult to accept. We look more and more closely at others and differently. And that's why I think we need to open up a very important debate about that, too. Perhaps because Parliament can do so even after this report to the Croatian Parliament and after this debate which will be concluded by some of the conclusions that most of them will definitely vote on, perhaps we should consider coming to a kind of consensus and opening our own debates in Parliament. So, to organise the thematic sessions, thematic discussions on what we saw in this debate to make us the most depressed, to torture us the most and that the biggest and most important stumbling block is that we can't go faster and stronger, stronger, more determined and courageous. Parliament can do that absolutely. We've split up of course on topics that are important but are not crucial about health care, about marriage, about the definition of marriage. I am absolutely for it to be that if a sufficient number of signatures were collected as soon as possible to sign that referendum. However, first of all, it is necessary to determine whether this question is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what my opinion is, I am now only talking about my opinion that the Family Law clearly, at the beginning of the clear, crystal clear and precise definition. However, it must not allow someone who expresses his opinion to the contrary to those who have signed, meaning that 700 or how many thousands of signatures to be discredited and humiliated by anyone in any way. We also share on the consideration, that is, the view of how it works and what is the rule of law and what is the functioning of the rule of law. Of course law enforcement, of course consistent law enforcement. When we brought them in, especially those we brought in by absolute majority, or consensus, then they should be respected. I mention all the laws, I mention, of course, the Law on judicial cooperation to the Member States of the European Union, but I am also talking about the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. However, we write laws and make laws for the sake of people. And I'm going to mention, of course, Vukovar. At this point, Vukovar, I would say quietly about emotions and about people's sightings about the implementation of the constitutional law silently by the beetles. And that's not good. And that's why Mr. Prime Minister here right now after this speaker I repeat what I am sometimes when journalists ask me what I think I should do with it and how I should do it again and again what I think is good and that's my really deep opinion. You, Mr. Prime Minister, go to Vukovar, pick up all the representatives of the defenders, the victims, representatives of minority associations, or the mayoral community, the city council and all the other interested, and invite us representatives from that constituency that we have some experience, invite all the honorary citizens, let's sit down and open this issue once more. Because from what we hear they're going from that, Cyrillic never in Vukovar until the question is delayed to the next list, so in 8, 10 years, we haven't really defined a single proposal, or those who are in favour, or those who are against it. Therefore, I think the Vukovars would certainly appreciate the Prime Minister going there and staying as long as it takes and putting all the problems on the table. Because we will continue to have this problem and we will continue to have a problem on the one hand of keeping the rule of law and implementing the law, and we will always return in 2009 when the statute is amended, and now most will try to change that statute. Obviously, we've all made an appointment. So since 15 January 98, when the keys of Vukovar were returned to Croatian hands, when Vukovar was returned to the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia, when General Klein did so, we obviously forgot that the ruins would be easy to rebuild, that houses would be easy to build and fix but that the ruins in human souls needed systematically very gently with a great sense of justice. Obviously, a lot has been missed over the years. That young people share, that there are different cafes that young people go to for 18, 19 years, I won't even talk about schools because it's a general fact and a general place. So, he quotes here and President Tudjman and I'll quote him, listen to ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, everyone who didn't, listen, read Tudjman's speech '97. After the peace train arrived in Vukovar. Where he initially says that a winner who can't forgive that sows the cry of new discord and future evil. It is therefore something President Tudjman has put as a framework for what the Croatian state will do in the future. Remember the word of General Gotovina recently when he received recognition in the town of Split when he said that Croatia must be a country of happy people for every citizen of it. So, we have a lot of work to do and the fact that one part of people can't possibly accept what's going on with bilingual records needs to be respected. We need to talk about this openly. All that in the end, ladies and gentlemen in the protection of the rule of law. There are many more phenomena we should talk about but the most important economy and life. Mr. Prime Minister, there were different projections of the deficit. It would be good to know today whether it's 16, 17 or 20 billion. How and by what measures we will reduce the deficit. Of course, we are now entering the scissors of the European Union and that is something we have committed ourselves to, what we knew would happen and what we had to prepare for. A speech like the Prime Minister gave today, I think it would have been good to have heard it and somewhere here in the first year of office. As regards the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the European Union today, we have not been given the answer to the question of how and when this will be resolved. As we hear before, Mrs. Reding says there are no compromises, no deals with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's particularly interesting, considering the fact that yesterday, from the New York Foreign Minister, we heard that obviously Mrs. Merkel, who commented, was also not informed because she was busy with her duties and that in that sense everything was actually settled and agreed. It would be good for the Prime Minister to hear today if it really was agreed, we are on the verge of compromise and when we will see the amendments to the law on the table in the Croatian Parliament. And for a short while, I will also refer to some of what Mr Milanovic said in his introduction, that is, in his report, that we have achieved all strategic goals absolutely that, therefore, of Croatia's independence, joining NATO, entering the European Union as the last major strategic goal. That's what we had a consensus about and that no one gave us anything also absolutely agree, support and sign. We did it ourselves. That's why it all obliges us to be smarter in what we're going to do right now. All those who think that the Government should leave, as far as we are concerned in the Croatian Parliament, know how it is done, so remember at the end of 2010, when we had indications that we would end negotiations, that we would become a member of the European Union, then the opposition submitted a request for a vote of no confidence to the Government but the Prime Minister. We've been here all day, we've been arguing, and in the end, most of us voted, and the government stayed and ended the negotiations. So I think that one thing I believe we will agree on and that no one will oppose me and that is the fact that this government headed by Mr Milanovic has received something important in its legacy, which is the final negotiations. And those final negotiations and the fact that we had the Fiscal Responsibility Act have long held our ratings for a long time. And it's not true, and that's what I'm going to end up with, it's not exactly what it's said, and I quote, "We've found a mess everywhere." If this government led by Zoran Milanovic had inherited a mess everywhere then we would not have finished negotiations between ladies and gentlemen because the European Union, the 27 members of the European Union would not have signed on 9 December 2011 that their 28th member would have become a Croatian country all mess. The second thing is that now we have a problem again because unfortunately, we have to establish it, as an unworthy member, we have started our mandate. That's why Mr. Prime Minister, here's why I suggest that you give us some of these key questions that we are very interested in, but not just us, but the whole public, answers to this session in the final letter. Finally, the proposed amendments to the Constitution you have announced I will support as well as if you propose an investigative committee that is so much talked about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48594	Thank you. Last in line, but no less important comes the HSU club and distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48595	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The annual report of the Government of Croatia is, in fact, as presented by the prime minister is actually a complication between the report and some way of getting familiar with the government's future intentions. Here I am going to be very decided. As far as the reports are concerned, we will absolutely support it and the conclusion that is in preparation for adoption in the Croatian Parliament while for some purposes you allow us to have some fences for which I would not now be dramatic, we can simply say something about them but there is plenty of time to discuss them. What I am sorry, is that the report is no longer potential to keep this system, especially from the 10 points on plan 21, related to social, health and pension systems, no longer said that there are exceptional efforts to keep the pension system alive and, for example, in a report that highlights the financial consolidation as one of the priorities on which it has been made that one fact that is very important has not been said, that despite the loss of 100,000 jobs, pension contributions have not been reduced to that extent but are constantly being maintained to around 19 billion, I am talking about contributions to the first pillar of pension insurance, which is certainly one contribution to the financial consolidation and that essentially each pays its intended commitments, so that in some way, the avoidance of payment is less and less. I would also like the report to say that it is working to find a better, fairer formula for harmonising pensions. It is a trend for most European countries to appreciate more of the cost of living, and less of the growth pays at this point because they all have the same problems that we have today when we speak and indexation and everyone in Europe is slowly leaving so-called. Swiss formula for alignment. And I would also like the report to say more that it wants to install new justice into the pension system and that we want to return whatever it is you call it, whether the full-time category or the depenalization point, when after certain years of training there is no more penalization to retire. But anyway, the new report will be a year ahead of this House, and I expect here some shifts, and I think we'll mention it then, but I mentioned it because I think it's worth it. Furthermore, from what is being done, so what is about the present, we seriously support this observation regarding PR agencies being engaged by public services, it is unacceptable. As far as pre-banking deals are concerned, in the part where bankruptcy creditors are, of course, public firms, we support the write-off but not in a way that for the remaining 30% which would not have been written off by public companies that there are no guarantees. So it's also not a perfect system, it's a system that's applied out of necessity, but I wouldn't want the requests of public service creditors to go into the wind because it doesn't make sense, so it's not fair, because in the end, we're going to pay everyone as taxpayers. I also want to say that it has always been since I've been involved in property censorship policy in social terms, and that I want something of two types of property to be different there. Active assets that contribute to the income of a person and those assets that are not worth the market, and a man who is only a burden and is no income. And we must not forget that perhaps all the money for people of older age in Croatia is more important for someone to come to them, to talk to them, to help them because according to the latest information 185 thousand older than 65 lives alone, which means that they live under constant stress and in constant fear of what can happen to them tomorrow. Mr. Prime Minister, in your presentation, two things burned my ear. In fact, I'm very sorry that either we didn't have time with the resolution ministry or they were busy or we couldn't have this idea that you said about cutting pensions that didn't exist, so there are no preferential pensions but I guess you thought about pensions under special laws, I'm sorry that we didn't kind of visualize the whole problem because there are big differences. You said two details, one detail is that you would cut those that are higher than the average salary net salary I guess that's 5,486 kuna at this point and you'd cut those that aren't covered by contributions. However, there are many, many dilemmas. Of course you said you wouldn't touch the pensions of 100% military disabled people and then the thing to round up, but there's some things that need to be lit up to the end and said what's what. Academics are receiving their pensions according to years of internships plus an academic supplement. I was wondering, what's going to take off your pension or an allowance? It would be more logical if a lot of pensions were so arranged that what is basic to man remains, what is earned, and that the additions are touched at the time of the crisis, that they are when the situation is better paid, when the situation is worse they are denied. So in that part, I am very interested in these solutions because it is possible that, not wanting to send bad messages, that soldier, say, the Croatian Army officer who has more than 5,500 kuna was a bad cop or a cop who has more than 5,500 kuna was bad. I think it's about the services that people are trained for. Some of them do not want to retire because one of their superiors said they no longer have the conditions to advance. So the whole story, I think, is that we need to get the best of our lives and you know, if he wants to make big moves, we've got our pensions settled. So none of us have the right anymore, except for some who have been retired for one day, to retire. If there were rights then we would have to say the same about those who were before us because they were some day in the Croatian Parliament and have such a pension. And for them, we should find a solution, if we're going to talk about the justice of the system. One more thing caught me off guard, Mr. Prime Minister, you said that this government introduced a pension tax that some people didn't like. I'll say it another way. This government has not introduced anything new, this government has only changed the legal provision by which by 2012, the peace benefits from abroad were not considered to be income that is total absurd. Why? I've been doing this for years, and I'm saying it was absurd, and it was time to change, because people who took maybe 500 kuna of our pensions showed up in the social community, and on the other hand they could have had 500 to 1000 euros. So we're just saying that that's because income below normal is that he's taxing. But pensions from abroad have been taxed before. For example. All those citizens of ours who live here, and they're only receiving a German pension. And it is a shame that no changes to social agreements have been negotiated since they started paying taxes in Germany after 2009. By 2009, they had not paid anywhere and Germany had seen it and they are now paying taxes in Germany per place of last residence. Look, they're here, using all the health care services, all the services they need for a normal life and paying taxes in Germany. So if there's anything you need to talk to Mrs. Merkel about, then it's the same topic that should be discussed because I don't think it's without arguments. And of course it depends that it will not be easy, but we are also here to discuss the Income Tax Act in a way that we have reached a certain level of consent that we should revise all social agreements and that such things should be negotiated differently because it is an undeniable fact that healthcare is used here and tax is paid elsewhere. We also agreed that taxes should be paid from 1 January of next year on cumulative pensions, not on the amount coming from abroad. So the sum of ours and those who come from abroad and that's especially important for pensions coming from the neighborhood if they cross a total of 3500 kuna. Before the idea of any cutting I'd ask you to have one elaborate that I'm about to tell you to remember and try to do something about it. In fact, a list of the best salaries in Croatia has recently been published. It seems to me that the highest salary paid is about $450,000 a month. What? Okay. I've done calculations at 450. To pay such a salary monthly someone in gross should make a million and 200000 kuna available. You won't believe it, but these people pay only 8800 kuna contributions. On the basis of the principle of equality of all insurance companies, if they pay for the first pillar, they should pay such one who receives a net payment of HRK 450000, should pay EUR 200000, or should provide a pension for 90 average pensions per month. He pays 8 and 800. At the end of the year he can apply for more payments and return, pay 45% of taxes to the state and take the rest because he probably has few 12 such net salaries. I'm asking you if it's in these times where we live properly that someone pays their salary 20% contributions or 15 plus 5, and someone when we add up the salary 3 and a half percent. I think sooner than that, we have to look for fake disability pensions, except we're looking for false defenders that we have to deal with these problems too. This will not be resolved by the pension system, but such people who have used the possibility of returning more funds of contributions has about 1000 in Croatia and is not insignificant if we secure on the income side of pensions for five hundred average pensions. So that's where I'd stop, I wouldn't go any further. I don't think there is a dilemma that the Croatian party of pensioners will accept this report, the government's Annual Report, with the fact that I think we still have time to meet this issue of pensions under special laws and other pension problems as well as about social censorships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48596	I thank Silvana Hrelja and thank all the clubs and now I call on the Prime Minister to submit a final presentation that may take up to 20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, if it bothers anyone, I apologize for not being here for an hour because I just had to have some conversations that I can't do here and these are things that happen regularly with abroad. But if I could watch alone on TV and most of the talk I heard. The ones I didn't perceive on my own in a different way. Thank you to those who have given support, and those who have not spoken in any way have helped me without being aware of it, nor did they want to. Now some things are even clearer to me. This is a good thing. For the first time in the history of the Croatian state, someone who represents an institution of government which, according to the Croatian Constitution, I quote "brings internal and foreign policy" which is more and less everything has an obligation before the Parliament in a process which lasted 4 hours longer to present its observations on the state of affairs in the state, it comes down to this matter and hears the opinions of representatives, i.e. club representatives. This may not be complete artistic freedom, but there is much to be heard here today and much has been articulated and it is clear what the club's attitudes are like. So, political groups in the Croatian Parliament. There's no dilemma. I expected it to be an emphasis, given that I devoted most of my speech to the economy and finance, and to, therefore, the accentes in the speeches above all, the representatives of the opposition. I listened very carefully, but that wasn't it. Namely, I haven't heard a single specific advice you do, only you shouldn't and what you don't do. That way, no internal and foreign policy can be conducted. Of course, everyone has the right to make their point, so to put it that way. But I have outlined a number of concrete indicators and bad and good plans, directions and modes of work. Not all countries know this system of communication from the first person or head of the executive authority of the Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Chancellor and Parliament. Germany doesn't, Denmark does. In some countries, it's a little different than here, but it's good to have it. We can't compare that to the Annual Report by American President Congress, which is not in an organic relationship with Congress, and where no one but the President of the Republic or the United States is speaking. He tells his story and leaves. This isn't perfect, but within the framework of possible and given procedures well and I'm whatever anyone thinks about it or resents me for this. Of course, we cannot change, and we cannot change our attitudes. I wish I'd heard any concrete ideas, plans to do what we do because we do and sometimes we make mistakes, and those are my words from a year and more days ago. That's what's happening. But we work and change the country, make changes. Sometimes maybe a step too harsh or too harsh for someone but standing in a place isn't. If there's anything I resented to my former government, it's indemnity. We stood in place for 2.5 years, and when I said that we had found a mess and a reluctantness to law enforcement, I thought first of all about state finances. I didn't mean general mess and chaos in the country because I respect Croatia so much and it's clear that it is one of the predecessors right that Croatia would never enter the EU if it were really in such a total mess, it would never enter. However, if there were very many holes in law enforcement, a lot of inexplicable failures, negligence, indifference to set up something that we can set up, it's clear. In finance and in the realization of tax revenues, the revenue side of the budget if you have the will, character, strength, in the first year and a half you can do some of the things you see, you can't make revolutionary changes or do them. In the field of health, education, science no matter how hard we try, nothing will be seen in a year and a half because it is complex systems in which it is acting in the long term and in which it is very often the work of a special interest in the Czech special cche’s interests. It's nothing illegal, but it's like that and it needs to be changed. In the opposite Croatian, or Zagreb University will not be among the world's first 200, and 200 in the world is a big thing for a country of 4.5 million people. But, well, I've deliberately talked a little less about topics that have been in the last weeks and months occupied by Croatian media and the Croatian public and politics, but I think I've really talked about it all but I've said everything in the past few months and I'm behind it all. And yes, it's a guard and attitude that this government will take while I run it, nothing will change. And yes, like other countries, we will debate, pollomise sometimes and be in a certain kind of conflict and strained relations with the European Commission. There is no state that is not and the European Commission receives 200 applications per month for so-called Infrigation procedure or infringement procedure of which 100 are already corrected and 100 is not. It's life, everyday life. And I repeat once again when we remove these party small games from the side and also at European level, the fact that it is a small matter remains. It remains also the fact that, of course, obligations must be respected, that laws can be changed, when they are in force, they should be respected. In this case, it was that the Croatian Parliament had changed the law. Was he allowed to do so, was the Croatian translation into the official messenger correct? He wasn't right, he was wrong. It's all expensive down the dilemma. I think that's how you run the country. What is and how is agreed you will see it very soon, and how much Croatia is isolated and how isolated we are you will also see it. None of that, I don't think anyone wants to. But finally, I'm going to read you something that might be better quoted here than some piece or... a long law. I will quote to you and leave it on the table inexcusable but I think you must read it, the last communication of the European Commission to the European Parliament and the Council of 26 March this year, so it is a monitoring report on Croatian membership preparations. It's the last report, there's no one after it. On this basis, we have entered the EU. So point 2.2 Justice and fundamental rights, that's Chapter 23 either, you know who's in charge of that. Paragraph 7 says, therefore, this is the official position of the European Commission, this is the law, on this basis we entered. This is a political and legal assessment of what we did. Paragraph 7. "to continue to strengthen the protection of minorities including the effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The government continued to take measures to raise awareness of persons belonging to national minorities and to ensure the implementation and enjoyment of their rights. The Commission welcomes the fact that the government continues to ensure the implementation of constitutional provisions in terms" now I will say something that I have not said at all today "uses of Cyrillic letters in the city of Vukovar where Croats of Serbian ethnicities make up so many and so many percentages of the population." That's it. Thank you and good-bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48598	I thank the Prime Minister. We'll finish the debate for today. . We'll be done with the work for today. [[Applause.]] We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. by discussing the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-24-0.u48599	We're going to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Annual Report. The debate is closed. In line with the SDP, HNS, Liberal Democrats, IDS, HSU, SDSS and National Minorities Club proposals, I am giving the following conclusion: "The annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is accepted. Secondly, measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are supported, which were presented in the Annual Report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.". I'd like to make a statement as to who the proposed conclusion is. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most of the vote is 82 votes in favour and 34 votes against the proposed conclusion. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament, let me remind you, today we mark the memorial day of 25 September, the Day of adoption of the Decision on the unification of Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, the island with the queen of the country of Croatia. This day of mention is important for the preservation of the unity of Croatian territory. A day of memory, memory and pride. On today 70 years ago in Pazin, Istria, the National Liberation Committee for Istria made a decision on the unification of Istria, Rijeka, Zadar and the island with the queen of Croatia. In October of the same year, the decision was confirmed at the second session of the Earth Antifascist Council of National Liberation of Croatia in Plaška. In a declaration by the National Liberation Committee preceding the United Decision, it was pointed out that the Croatian people proved that Istria is Croatia's country and that it will remain. Thus Istria as well as Rijeka, Zadar and other anectated parts of the Croatian coast, Gorski kotar, Dalmatia, Adriatic islands were fighting for freedom from foreign government, Italianisation and the ordering of these parts. It is important to stress that the National Liberation Committee for Istria has guaranteed autonomy for the Italian minority. On this day 70 years ago, western borders of Croatia were defined and the foundations of a modern Croatian state that values and wants to preserve all cultural diversity of the Croatian people and national minorities in its territory were hit. It is an opportunity to express our respect, the courage of members of the National Liberation Movement of the mentioned Croatian parts, and to congratulate their citizens today on the 70th anniversary of the Paz Decision and to wish for successful development in freedom and peaceful co-existence with their fellow citizens from the ranks of national minorities. Thank you very much for your attention. And now we're going to work on a fixed agenda.
