ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60337	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day and we'll continue our session. We will discuss - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 488. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Justice Minister Mr Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60338	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to take a brief look at the differences between the first and second readings. The differences actually stemmed from discussions here from the Parliament, discussions on committees and the continuation of the public debate that was. In short, the provisions on the notification of the arrested person have been amended and amended, so it is in line with the Vienna Convention, the treatment of the judgment of the costs, so it is always determined that the convicted person is obliged to bear the cost of the proceedings but can then be taken away, released for a certain period of time with the ten years I have spoken of, the possibility of collection. We simply don't want people who have money to get lawyers by official duty on the burden of all of us and then when they actually come through that benefit. We define and specify the concept of those financial investigators, which is aimed at raising the quality of the fight against financial malversions and detecting the property that has been illegally acquired. We're installing an institutional remedy to control rejections based on the principle of purpose, it wasn't now, such controls, such rejections, now we're installing it. In accordance with the debate here in the Assembly, we have developed a provision on the possibility of forced entry into the police station of citizens who can give notice of a certain criminal part. Based on the comments of the Justice Committee, the decision to conduct the investigation is to be delivered to the defendant without delay, it is precise when, therefore, within eight days. An item that actually centralises these gatherings has been added so that citizens will finally no longer have to go to a particular court in order to get a notice on whether a procedure is being conducted, but that all power will be gained in one place for all. Presumption of abandonment of the prosecution of a state attorney unless he has made or brought charges within the deadlines. Of course, that's where we put one fuse, which is more power or a tight part of the state's attorney, and that's when you can renew the procedure. We are introducing the possibility of using psychiatric treatment and the freedom of an innumerable person. So these are changes that are most significant compared to the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60339	Thank you, Minister. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the party of work of counterpart Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60340	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. By completing the third revision of the Criminal Procedure Act, I expressed my hope that final corrections for the remaining 26 with the laws and the Constitution of non-compliant provisions would not be taken five to 12. That was a year ago. I was wrong, the law today after today's emergency hearing, although the second one reads, but it's all urgent because 15-12, we need to do this job, adopt a minute before 12. After the support of the Zagreb Bar Association of Lawyers Jasna Novak and Višnja Drenški Lasan submitted a request for an assessment of the constitutionality in 2008 adopted in the Assembly as a revolutionary or at least reform law on criminal proceedings was then spoken. The Constitutional Court has assessed even 43 articles not in conformity with the relevant law of the Republic of Croatia. Not only did the mentioned lawyers, but many other colleagues claimed that the new Criminal Procedure Act favoured the state's attorneyship and that the disputed provisions violate the rights of the defendants guaranteed by the constitution and the Convention on Human Rights. After further consideration, the Constitutional Court stated that out of 150 apostrophe of the contested articles, 43 must be amended because the defendants are placed in an unequal position. The Criminal Procedure Act must be amended by the Constitutional Court no later than 15 December 2013. Last year, 17 controversial non-constitutional articles were amended, and this proposal finally implements changes and the rest of the disputed provisions. Why minutes to 12? Why are we still making budget rebalances for 2013 minutes to 12? I guess that's what the government knows about. With this fifth order of alignment, Croatian Labourists are particularly pleased because we finally have a law that will allow the robbed property to be taken away from the robbers. Not that, as some tax laws on that property require, tax is paid, making the kidnapping practically legalized. It would be another legalization of the robbery carried out according to how the Floskullarians can tell the lawyers positive Croatian regulations. So the greatest reach, the greatest value of this law, is for us Croatian Labourists in that they will be able to return to the state. When former ministers are arrested, the presidents of any government, any chambers, when they arrest ministers and state officials who are reasonably suspected of robbing hundreds of millions of euros, the people speak up like this. They will serve several years at the cost of state or care, and then become a free citizen who will enjoy the fruits of his robbery, pay back the money it will be more punishment for them than the prison. Yes, what has been acquired by privatization, corruption, interest, drug trafficking, fraud should be taken away by robbers as soon as possible. Many countries, most civilised legally regulated countries, still have such practice. Why is this institution being introduced so late and so difficult and why is so little property taken away? Because the confiscation of illegal, theft and fraud of acquired property was resisted by elite pillars of society, those who cannot prove the origin of their property. For the first time, property reconnaissances are precisely regulated that will enable the people's will to be accomplished, to be returned to us. The law on criminal proceedings will show experts from the special Department of Property Benefit Research who will not hopefully fall for the jokes like that of Sanader, all those dozens or I believe hundreds of millions of euros earned by selling erotic photographs. Profits like Sanader didn't even happen to the American pornographic industry. The fact that Vidosevic had given it all to each layman was suspicious. Justification, his excuse, I had a nose for investment, drinking water, and the only one with fools and pillows. It didn't pass in the people, but it passed in law enforcement and courts. He now suggests more with a smooth criminal procedure law he will not pass at Bajic or USKOK. If you pay us back robbed, and those who are systematic in the highest peaks of planned and carried out robberies do not become obsolete, Minister Linic will have no problem with the budget. So let's invest in these Bajic scouts because it will be the most rewarding investment in the last ten years. When we settle our debts, we share money with those living in poverty, and there will be money left to build new prisons in the midst of unprocessed fields and unsettled olive groves so that the champions of privatisation and corruption unsuspecting ventures become agricultural blows in rail suits. So Bajic's scouts go ahead. This is the most important provision of the Criminal Procedure Act for us. There are others, and what the lawyers most resented was corrected, the defendant is entitled to judicial protection in both the investigation and the investigation by delivering a solution to the investigation or the first evidence store. So there's court protection at the big door. One of the most significant newspapers of the Criminal Procedure Act is more effective protection against delaying proceedings and other irregularities in the operation of the DORH and the Court. The focus of this law is the rights of victims and damages because their right to insight the file no longer depends on whether or not they have been examined. Their right of insight can only be abolished if the former insight could affect their statement. The court's protection is also provided for special evidence stores. A court order is required for entering the premises, for physical examination, for taking biological material or for checking phone contacts. The criminal proceedings against these proposed solutions begin with the power of the solution in carrying out the investigation. An exceptional investigation is not necessary for a criminal offence with a prescribed sentence of more than 5 years. The CAP has arranged an institute for partial procedural immunity of witnesses when safeguarding the public interest of disclosing the effective persecution and prosecution of perpetrators of serious crimes, or crimes of great public and constitutional importance. It's arranged so-called. The Institute would benefit from non-response of questions by which the witness would expose himself or a close relative to criminal proceedings. You had the opportunity to hear the invitation to grace at yesterday's debate involving the daughters of former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Now, the question is what are the crimes of great public and constitutional importance, which is why if the defendants are exposed, the witnesses most often deserve immunity. In law, you have printed the catalog of these serious crimes. The way and criteria for the settlement of the costs of the criminal proceedings seem well resolved. The convict undertakes to settle costs up to 10 years after the power of the verdict. We know that many people who have grown into crime do not have any value in their property card or swear any value, while driving in cars worth millions and more kuna, and in such cases Bajic's reconnaissance will be needed. For the application of this good law, the protagonists needed more time. So the law was supposed to be passed before, it's also the biggest grudge but it's not about the essence. This law is not exactly a problem to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60341	Thank you. colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60342	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic agrees in principle with a lot of what you have said but I want to remind you here that you have said that you will finally be able to take away property under this amended law and I remind you that it is possible now and that it was possible. So, I also remind you, in the 2010 Constitution, that we have changed the common forces so that the conversion of crime, or war profit, does not go out of date, that we have further worked this out. But we also passed a law of confiscation of property that was acquired illegally. Of course I'm talking first of all about the crimes you mentioned. And that there are existing regulations blocking the property of those who are being tried. Of course, everyone is innocent until a judicial verdict says the Constitution proves guilty, but until then the property is blocked and no one can handle it. So this is, of course, one step towards improving the instruments that the rule of law has but so far we have had good laws and good regulations that are firmly, clearly and precisely stopped at the defense of the state and against those who steal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60343	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60344	Dear colleagues, Kosor, the legal experts have just said they need a law like this so that you can do what you said effectively in order to be faster. But we know it's 17, I think it's 17, 20 in cases of seized property. It would be good if these scouts, when this reconnaissance shows that the suspect has far more assets than the tax card shows him that this property is taken away regardless of the court case. Because the thing is, people do two years and hundreds of millions, tens of millions, millions of kunas leave, come out after a few years for good behavior because they've been good at peeling potatoes in prison, coming out and enjoying the fruits of their crimes. Therefore, in Croatia I will still repeat in the work of excellent laws that are being adopted here in the Assembly and criminal court practice. I agree with you, we have had in the solutions so far the possibility of confiscation of property. You said it yourself, it was brought in, a constitutional change in which privatisation crime doesn't go out of date. But unfortunately, there's no big score except for court affairs and other than the trial and everyday appearance of criminals or those suspected of a crime on television and they're actually TV stars. Without them, there's not a single sleep. You can't go to bed without seeing those who robbed us, not being given room, etc. We are a country that still claims to steal it, in practice to steal it well and that there may be someone here and there who may be punished and the others will get away with it. And this law is one of the tools that will be able to do that, is to take away property. Now it's up to court practice again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60345	On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60346	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. In order to understand this Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure and to remove even the objection that it was some kind of quick proposal, we might go back almost 10 years. So, we will soon be 10 years old since the first major steps were taken to improve the Criminal Procedure Act. Not because the previous one that was until then was not democratic. However, he protected to the greatest extent the rights of the defendant, the defendant, perhaps to such an extent that we became inefficient in the fight against crime, especially against that dangerous organised crime. But ultimately, against modern forms of economic crime. All of this drove the legislator to make the first changes, to bring some kind of changes, and I would say revolutionary measures that would speed up the process and that would remove all those obstacles that prevented the effectiveness of the procedure. It was the most famous change it was then that it was possible to conclude a settlement, of course in front of a court, but an investigative judge. It's something that was absolutely new in our criminal case, in our law on criminal proceedings. So if we go back to the fundamental principle of what the Code of Criminal Procedure is for, then, to be primarily effective in such a way that none of the blames will come to pass. But also so that innocents are not convicted, to protect the rights of the defendants because that is why they value the democracy of a order but also to be effective. These two principles are always in one kind of tension to find a measure of efficiency but on the other hand and to protect these fundamental values. As far as this is concerned and how much our country takes care of it, the best words of Article 29 are given. A constitution that speaks of the rights of the accused and his rights. However, what was happening in the process is the most famous words that were declared in the sentence of the year by the Slovenian lady who at the time acted as state's attorney. She said you see, your witnesses know everything in a pub that happened, with the police already forgetting something, with an investigative judge and their knowledge has been reduced. They don't remember anything before the hearing court. So this forgetfulness, this Alzheimer's which is simply today a cover for the acquisition of wealth, was to be reached, and at that time in 2003 we are starting with stronger changes in the CAP. These preparations and work on the CAP lasted for five years, for me too long, so that the first major amendments to this law that we are amending today in 2008. So what are the fundamental principles of our law, but which of these changes are we now partially abandoning? This was certainly a complete abandonment of the principle of inquisitorism. That was a new one. At that time, you remember, with caution, we approached it, but one Germany, one Austria at that time, and a lot more and more earlier, has changed its ZKP by declaring it inefficient. So the one who was the creator of it went into a mixed system, even with great signs and principles of acousticity, even from the earliest procedure. So what is the principle of our process, the CAP that we are now changing well because we also saw that it is in a certain sense ineffective. In fact, we rely on what is known to the general public from various shows, what we see in Angolan law, so a completely one acoustic system in which the judge will be passive, and where the parties will take an active role in investigating the defendants and in examining the witnesses. However, I must immediately say what has been seen and what this law is changing. Yes, because of the passivity of the judge, there was a great danger that he would be innocent and the blame would come to an end. This means that the parties to the procedure as far as the law has given them all the means, have not taken over such one activity and such one right to leave the cross-examination at the hearing itself and to give greater authority to the judge will contribute to what is most valuable and to fully implement the principles of the CAP. So it has already been said, but it is also worth mentioning, again pointed out that many provisions, even 43, have been amended so just after the Constitutional Court's decision. It is true that, in some ways, there has been a disturbance in the balance of the parties in the criminal proceedings between the prosecutors, i.e. D.A.'s office. State's attorney, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the defendant's rights. They were not accidentally debalancing, it was precisely one tendency to reach organised crime, crime, to reach exactly the modern forms of economic crime that we have been absolutely unprepared for years, unprepared, and the public is still not satisfied with such outcomes, i.e. by processing this type of crime. However, it is noteworthy that the CAP has given such funds to the defendant precisely to be prepared for such actions and all that is happening today in front of our courts, which is causing the public's greatest attention would not have been possible if we hadn't brought such a CAP. Despite the fact that these amendments now seek to nivele and enable the rights of the defendant, the rights of the defendant, will in no way prevent the effectiveness of the conduct, and that these provisions should indeed be corrected, this is beyond doubt. Therefore, there is no need to repeat about the specificity of these amendments that Mr. Minister has introduced and what differences have been made between the first and now second readings. So, in any case, the provisions of the defendant's right to see the file, to know exactly what was really causing the difference in interpretation in the application itself, when the criminal proceedings were essentially initiated. It also made it difficult for us here when we needed an official, specifically with us some representative, to remove immunity. So, from the point of view of practical conjecture and subsequent rights and consequences, it is necessary to determine at what point the criminal proceedings begin and what the rights of the defendants are. If we just remember in the earlier procedure, it was clear, so when we had a judicial investigation, when the investigation was not conducted by a state lawyer to whom, therefore, the adoption of the CAP itself gave all the mechanisms exactly, and the regular forces subdued in the sense that the State Attorney's Office had the right order to the police. The other question was that the police are being sanctioned for not acting on the orders of the state's attorney, not by the state's attorney's authority, by the police. However, those standards are also in line. Therefore, in earlier proceedings, in an earlier kind of procedure, this was indeed before the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Act of a different kind of procedure. It was known exactly when the criminal proceedings began – by a solution to investigate, that is to say, to be even more precise with the power of that solution. But since the solution did not delay that application, it practically started the criminal proceedings by making a solution to the investigation. And that's when it was clear. So, right now, we also know these changes when the procedure is initiated by a state attorney, so also by conducting, the opening of this investigation is precise that it is of great importance for the rights of the defendant himself because at that moment he has the right to insight into the file, into all the evidence. Of course, this has also opened up the problem and the problem of what has become a public problem, the problem of data leaks. Because an investigation like it was before, and now if the investigation conducted by the state's attorney is a secret. It's something that the police and the State's Attorney's office are trying to put an end to right now. Not to repeat everything Mr. Minister has said, and it is good that the committees themselves and the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice have contributed to the quality and accuracy of many provisions which all and the Ministry of Justice or the Government have accepted for what I am grateful for. Speaking on behalf of the SDP club, the SDP club supports the Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60347	Thank you. Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60348	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Anticevic. We can agree here, or agree with everything you have said about this final text of the law, although it is based on the Constitutional Court's decision of 43 articles. I think these other changes that have also been introduced are very important. What you mentioned in your discussion, and I wanted to point out in particular. This law is a living organism and this change of law itself will require further changes, which is perfectly normal. This is a very important regulation that enters the fundamental human rights and freedoms and can always be a step more or less in a process that can completely compromise the very stage of ending the procedure. What needs to be particularly highlighted, I hope we agree on that. The leak of information from the U.S.K.C. and the State's Attorney's Office. The latest case of a major investigation procedure where a police officer in collaboration with the media released some information outside without protecting one who may be a suspect in the process. This is not my idea, but this law as well as the Penal Code and all those involved in the procedure, and as far as the police are concerned, it is the conduct of the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK and all those involved in the procedure in order to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia that we need to strengthen further. Because some people who are unprofessional can fail the whole procedure, so I personally advocate that additional funds are provided in the Republic of Croatia's budget, to strengthen this part financially. Because without it there is no success in any procedure and that people who work are further educated, educated, invested in themselves. Because only professionals can contribute to the quality of the process. If that is not the case, then both the free and the Ministry of Justice and us in the Assembly are trying to create a firm legal framework with the control of the Constitutional Court which I also support if all parties in the process will not be extremely professional. If something is going to be populist about the headlines in the media, then it's not about protecting interest, it's about jeopardizing fundamental rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60349	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60350	A colleague to knock on the open door, if you noticed yesterday we discussed the 2014 Budget and you saw exactly that the budget for the Ministry of Justice increased, that it was one problem that was observed. But the fact that everyone is coming, so all the participants of the proceedings, the main participants of the proceedings, which is the State's Attorney's Office at that stage and that stage of the police proceedings, but also the defences, they come to these materials. They will probably know best how to protect, or how to identify those irresponsible, who therefore do not care about the interests of the proceedings themselves, and also about the interests of the defendant himself or on the other hand of state interests who will know how to identify such persons, of course and properly punish them immediately, or at all, away from the possibility of more participation in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60351	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60352	Dear colleagues Antičević-Marinović. One little irony that doesn't go to the expense of either the minister or the current government. You were wondering when the criminal proceedings began. More than 10 years after the media published and detected an irregularity that is, the practice so far has taught us. All what the media discovered a dozen years ago, 15 years ago, it's only now that criminal proceedings are under way. What you were also saying about leaks of information and what a colleague mentioned earlier was leaking information, I'm never unhappy when I read some information that leaked. You need to know that 90% of the proceedings were not leaked would not have been carried out in the Republic of Croatia. We should always make a big difference between practice and what is brought here in the Croatian Parliament especially in recent times when great laws are passed. However, the biggest problem in Croatia is that there is a large criminal network that is very much embedded in political pores and when judicial proceedings are launched, much effort is made to cover things up. And now it's ironic that the cop who allegedly played the footage and gave the footage to the media ended up in prison, but those who break the law never close down, which just shows that they're bad cops or bad investigators still in the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60353	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60354	So you say a colleague so a little ironic that it's not too far from the truth that many processes are running after the media published it. This is true, however, not even then, but after a whole procedure that is unknown to the public. But you also need to know that the most important, almost most precious for the health of this nation is to run what the media did not write at all and that they were covered and implemented in the way that the law and ordered public secrecy and they had the most success. But I'd agree generally with you right now if it weren't for a good system that works like an old push-up drawer. And the Code of Criminal Procedure will all agree that no matter what the public said, we did not have such strong levers, powerful mechanisms that would then enable witnesses to be protected, allow those who were involved in the crime itself to come to the material truth by their testimony.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60355	Nancy Tyrelli, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60356	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs Antičević-Marinović, and here you have said that they forget people, that is, all of us on that road from the pub to the court often lose some memories. I have also last warned of Article 208, or Article 96 of this law, and all the time I say that some things are not clear to me because when the police collect information, that is to say, they do not have to talk to a police officer at all, or have to give any information about any information. And that's what's probably insinuating. So, I can physically spend six hours at a police station, six hours silent, not give any information, and on the other hand, in the Penal Code, it seems to me that Article 301 or 302 as a citizen obliges me that if I know that someone is doing some kind of crime for which, say, punishment is 5 years and more, and I don't report it, I can get a prison sentence for up to a year, or if I have knowledge of a work that is 10 years and more prisons can get up to 3 years in prison. Now, I don't think those two things are somehow very complicated because at some point, if I see something and I have information, I don't need to talk about it, and on the other hand, if I just doubt something or have indications that someone might do something, I'm bound by this law to report something like that. So I think here's the minister that, my colleague and you, have you seen that article I don't know, to explain it to me because I really don't understand it. Now, if someone asks me if I have to say any information or just six hours at the police station, I keep my mouth shut and say what I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60357	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60358	Perhaps the explanation of these standards would take a long time, or longer, than can be said in response to the replica or even ask a question in the replica itself, but the problem is not in norms, they are later seen in a testimony before the State's Attorney's office and before the court itself, but the problem occurred in the 1990s when witnesses had fear. Everything they saw about it they had to keep quiet. Being a witness and being an eyewitness and having such knowledge was very dangerous. So, it's a matter of a political one and I would say a new political climate and we have a whole series of witness empowerment programs because they are witnesses and over time is never a good ally in detecting or processing criminal acts, but a whole series of procedures, a whole series of programs, and even in the very law where witnesses are protected, above all a great protection of witnesses. And the other thing, they're just about to be able to say what they know in the process. Because we know what the problem was, that they don't remember. Well, the defendant's right is always to call for oblivion, it's his right. Witnesses are obliged to tell the truth. But what we need, perhaps now is not the subject of this law, to change the Witness Protection Act again, to encourage them, but also to the point where it is obvious that the witness did not tell the truth that he was silent even though other evidence clearly tells us that he has knowledge that they should be processed. Sadly, no witnesses are prosecuted who have knowledge that they have undoubtedly lied or did not say what they know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60359	On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60360	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, this is the law that is in the second reading, we actually received in the procedure of the Constitutional Court decision where the Constitutional Court abolished a total of 43 articles of the Criminal Procedure Act, since it was found that the same is not in accordance with the relevant law of the Republic of Croatia, means the Constitution and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Changes are going towards efficiency and protection of human rights. So here we see that our Constitutional Court knows very well how it will, and it can certainly intervene in content when necessary. So the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has, by its decision, prescribed the constitutional obligations of the legislator under the first removal of structural deficiencies in the normative structure of the previous procedure, the second removal of structural inadequacy in the normative arrangement of the effectiveness of the previous procedure and the third, requires the balance of the criminal procedural order to rest consistently on precise and predictable general rules. The aim of these amendments was to balance the meaning of the criminal procedural order by consistently resting on certain precise and predictable general rules. Also, since the role of the court cannot be exhausted in the control of the existence of the basis of doubt as the lowest degree of quality of the institute, but in the control of the existence of reasonable doubt as a higher degree of certainty it is proposed that investigations and research can be carried out if there is a reasonable doubt that a certain offence which the assumption also stems from the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. So there's a whole series of changes, as we know 43. I would stress some of us in the Croatian People's Party that they are very important and should be highlighted. With these amendments, the defendant's right to judicial protection is acquired both in the investigation and in the investigation at the same time, meaning by delivering an act that the State's attorney estimates that there is a reasonable doubt against the particular defendant that he has committed a criminal offence that is burdened against him and that there are no obstacles to the prosecution of that person. I will have both the possibility and the victims and the applicant of the application to influence the effectiveness of the conduct of their application, or the criminal offence that they are victims. Strengthening the position and rights of victims and damages and increasing the effectiveness of the procedure should contribute to a provision under which their right of insight into the file no longer depends on the circumstances of whether they have been examined, but their right may be denied only if they have previously been affected by their statement. It is expected that the victim and the damage victim will now have an earlier insight into the conduct of a state attorney which will allow them both more active and more effective use of the rights that belong to them. We believe this is a good solution against delaying proceedings and other irregularities in the work of the state's attorney and judge of the investigation. The court's protection is secured for specific evidence actions through the request of a judge to investigate the police and the state's attorney for the delivery of the report and for the reasons of the need for further carrying out specific evidence actions and a mandatory court order when it is necessary to enter into the premises for the purpose of recording them, in the case of a physical examination, depending on the degree of intrusion into the body integrity of the person and its procedural role, in the absence of biological material from a person other than the defendant who has not given written consent and the conduct of molecular genetic analysis, and in verifying the establishment of a telecommunication contact for the registered owner or user who has not given written consent to what is the newspaper. Those amendments shall accept a solution whereby criminal proceedings are initiated by means of a decision on the conduct of an investigation which may be conducted where there is a reasonable doubt that a criminal offence has been committed for which the prescribed sentence of imprisonment is more than five years and must be carried out for criminal offences for which the prescribed sentence is more than 15 years, or the penalty of a long-term prison. It's also an organized institute called the so-called Institute. the partial procedural immunity of a witness who, when justified by the protection of public interest, is justified to expose effective persecutions and prosecute serious crimes or by stating the Constitutional Court's decision, commits crimes of great, public and constitutional importance to the non-processing of a witness who, on account of the right to non-indiction in his statement, has called for the right to non-response of questions whose answers would expose herself or a close relative to him to prosecution. During the four-year application of the Criminal Procedure Act, the case under the jurisdiction of the USKOK has shown that the cross-examination method deviating from several years of Croatia to a criminal legal tradition does not lead to the imagined dynamics of the debate primarily due to the way in which the proceedings were conducted. According to the proposal for a law, a final judgment may also be amended after the power to rule on penalties without renewal of proceedings if circumstances arise which have not been stated before, or the court did not know about them, even though they existed and would obviously lead to a minor condemnation. In this way, the gap in the legal medicines observed in practice after leaving the request for exceptional mitigation is resolved. It is also amended to include part of the provisions on the costs of criminal proceedings with the aim of preventing the easy charge of the budget by charging the defence costs to those defendants who are actually able to settle these costs during or after the criminal proceedings. We would also like to stress the importance of introducing a legal remedy for breach of the rights of defence as well as the enforcement of the constitutional obligation of the legislator to install a judicial safeguard mechanism, which should catch a check among other things and a reasonable suspicion that a certain person has committed a criminal offence which is put on the burden and lack of legal interference for prosecution. For all of these reasons, we believe that the amendment of the law is good, that all arguments replaced by those provisions are correct and that these are making great progress in the entire system of criminal law. What we consider to be wrong but not directly related to this law alone, it concerns the entire Croatian legislation is the fact that laws change too often. We do not think that in reality you can even see the effect of certain changes and that legal professions and legal practices are not able to even adapt to new laws, and that unfortunately its changes are already coming. This unfortunately contributes to the overall lower efficiency of the judiciary. Some, unfortunately, do not take the changes seriously because in a very short time, it is a great opportunity for these laws to experience even very important changes and additions, which we have witnessed many times. We feel that this is not good, we think that when amendments to particularly important laws need to go into the depths, take more time to prepare, give the old laws an opportunity to make improvements, and only then do more constructive changes. What will, of course, be a problem and what is a problem in our judiciary is that this law will function in parallel with the old law because of its transitional and final provisions, and it is very questionable what efficiency in the next two years will be that parallel efficiency of the judiciary will do this parallelism in the coming years. What we think is that it would be very good seems to us that this law has reached very, very profoundly, very profoundly crucial changes that we hope will allow this law to live long enough to in practice confirm itself as an excellent law. Therefore, the CNS will support these amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60361	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60362	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is a very important law in criminal proceedings. one of the laws which is engulfed in fundamental human rights and freedoms and as such must be very clear, predictable and must achieve its purpose at each stage of the procedure. And the purpose of this law is when against certain persons who are potentially perpetrators of criminal offences, suspects in the proceedings achieve the purpose of punishment, which is to protect the interests of society and the community and the Republic of Croatia as a whole. That is why we are talking today about this final proposal of the Criminal Procedure Act because it was initiated by the Constitutional Court decision to repeal 43 articles of this law with the intention of the Constitutional Court to comply with basic conventions, international regulations and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on fundamental human rights and freedoms. I would disagree with those colleagues and colleagues who say that in this law and in this matter there is no need for amended laws. I just feel the opposite. Certain proceedings are therefore phased in criminal proceedings, prior examination, investigation and the procedure itself has its advantages and disadvantages. It is a living organism and as such must be changed primarily in order to protect the fundamental freedoms and rights of those involved in the procedure. without it, there is no quality law and no achievement of the purpose of this law, which is to punish the perpetrators of criminal acts that have endangered such state interests of the Republic of Croatia. This amendment to the law is also based on the constitutional court's intervention on the basis of needs and others are not just interventions in the law, other needs that occurred in the stages of the life of this law have also been shown. This law is a living organism and must be changed according to the time in which we live. This is a particularly sensitive issue because in many stages of the process, fundamental human rights and freedoms are entered into and those in these proceedings may be endangered regardless of the good intentions of the legislator and of all those who are in the process. That's why I said a good law has its advantages and it is enforceable only if all parties in the process are firmly in order to comply with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. The HDSSB Club supports this final bill because it achieves its purpose and purpose as such, but we are sure that even at the stage of the application of this law there will be certain amendments and additions because there are certain elements that will show whether they are good and bad only when they are put into life. So if we don't go into the law enforcement process, we don't know what needs to be changed. There are therefore certain elements and there are certain things that are life-threatening and that should be changed in the stages of the procedure ahead of us. What needs to be particularly emphasized here, so by 15 December we have to bring about changes to this law on time. Perhaps this should have left a little bit of an expert public in a bit of a broader discussion given that it was a sensitive issue. However, on the basis of the Constitutional Court’s decision, on the basis of the needs of the law, it was necessary to adopt this text of the draft law. So first of all, removing structural disadvantages in the normative structure of the previous procedure, now that it does not repeat what colleagues have said, so the solutions proposed by this legal text are good and as such enforceable and normatively better solved than it has been so far, although what was in some elements of the law that is in force we cannot say that it itself was not good because then we would not speak honestly and honestly because our Law on Criminal Procedure is good at most of its provisions. And these are the elements that should have changed given the observed shortcomings. That's why I said this is exactly the law that needs to be changed a lot. Second, remove structural deficiencies in the normative part of the effectiveness of the previous procedure and balance the criminal procedural order to rest on certain precise and predictable general rules. This is, therefore, the conduct of the procedure and the phases that, according to this amendment, are ultimately incorporated into the law. What I would particularly like to stress here, a few things. So, these legal means that are foreseen under the Law to prevent and delay proceedings is good, the introduction of an element of reasonable doubt rather than just suspicion as such, the underlying doubt is something much stronger and stronger in this process and it is something that makes it impossible to delay the procedure so that the procedure can last for a long time and as if it itself is ineffective. If I did not repeat myself too much in what has already been said and in the presentation of ministers and colleagues, I would only place an emphasis here on Article 93 of this Bill on Article 206b. Therefore, the State lawyer is obliged to make a decision on the criminal application within 6 months of the date of registration of the application in the register of criminal charges and to inform the applicant of the application, indicating the short reasons for that decision. We think it would be much better to make a decision that the state's attorney is obliged to make a decision within 6 months of the day of filing a criminal application. For what? Because this thesis from the day of enrolment of the enrolment of criminal offences leaves the possibility for the State lawyer to hold the subject in his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/it case for a period of more than 6 months, it may be more than a year and two days, so that only by enrolling a specific case in the register of criminal charges, the period of 6 months begins to expire. This leaves room for certain manipulations because if someone holds something in a drawer for two years and decides, if necessary, when they will put what in the register of criminal offences, it already puts a little bit of a threat to legal certainty and stability and the very intention of this law that must be functional, efficient and safeguard fundamental human rights. It can't hang in the air how long this procedure can stand with a state attorney because this is the element of the day of enrolment of criminal charges. I think it would be a better solution than the day you file a criminal report. At that time, it would be known exactly what it means in which elements, therefore, all parties to the procedure are protected. In addition, Article 125 of the Bill of Law on Article 246 of the Police Act when entering a foreign home and space, the same should be cautious because these police actions under the Law on Police Affairs and Powers are quite vague and inaccurate, therefore, provisions and therefore we question the restriction of one of the fundamental human rights under the European Convention. Maybe this provision should be just as tight, clearer. As far as monitoring phone conversations between the defendants and his defenders are concerned, this is the same open question that we need to think a little bit more together until we vote on this final text of the law. Because the assessment that there will be a legitimate fear, the very word concerned, it is a very broad term and that assessment of whether the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the crucial national interests, that I am not now reading the whole article, it can also be disputed and we need to see it, is a sensitive issue of the supervision and conversation of defenders and defendants because it is questionable and the outcome of the procedure itself, very important elements of the procedure. I don't know if this word is good enough. As for what a colleague from the Croatian Labour Club, Vuksic said, this is therefore a blessing that a certain person is excluded from the procedure if the elements of the phase of his study will make a special contribution to the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, of the wider community and the like, it is also this justified fear of determining what crimes of great public or constitutional importance will be committed by those persons in the process if they are already participants in the process because they have therefore violated the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. It's a good thing it's only done for those crimes that are up to 10 years in prison. But there should be an assessment because unfortunately these persons are perpetrators of criminal acts. They gave their testimony additional information and should not, as such, be completely amnesty from any punishment at least by working for the common good because it makes no sense. We saw this in this latest case where some people provided very important information and data. There has been an arrest, an investigation procedure, the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. But those persons themselves are perpetrators of criminal acts. Because what does it mean up to 10 years in prison? It means that if you look at what crimes they're up to five years in prison that are also not meaningless. So the same should not be amnesty in the sense that there is no responsibility for prosecution but there are other measures to realize that what they said is good for and is important for our constitutional order and for Croatia's interests. But also that they are perpetrators of a crime, that they will respond as such, but by easier regulations because in one part they have done very badly but well that we have protected the constitutional legal order. I would punish those persons the same, and I would suggest that this measure in law be different. If not in these amendments of the law since I said it's alive... It will come to this, it is not good, it is not a good solution not to punish such persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With regard to that chapter of confiscation of property use, there is also one problematic part of the law that determines that family members, wider and narrow families, will be taken away from property. There should be a very careful non-protection of the defendant or the crime he committed. The elements of the determination of the value of the property and the origin of the property which, with the hands of the State's attorney, also give great breadth because there is a certain property which is unproven that it was created as an element of criminal activity. It could be property created from other legal bases and it says here no matter what legal basis it was created on. So that certain members of the wider family can come into a more unfavourable position where we put ourselves in the context of the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms of our Constitution, as well as the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms where there can be a threat to that fundamental right, and other than freedom, this is also the right to property and property that this person has. But there we need to be very careful and there we will have to closely monitor the implementation of this law and this measure, which we have passed, is necessary to take away the property benefit that a person has acquired by criminal act. But this extension to the rope and wider members of the family, the blockade, the seduction and the wider, I say, not protecting anyone, not speaking of current procedures, it's a question that we're going to have to follow and intervene in order to ensure maximum protection of constitutional law and fundamental human rights. I also support this that persons who have been unable to pay for their property or who have received an attorney's attorney under official duty for 10 years that if, after the power of procedure, it is therefore established that this person has acquired a certain property and could pay the cost to pay it because we already have the principles of financial and economic, we cannot pay the great cost of the proceedings, and that there are also persons who fictitiously conceal it, hide and tell the truth that they do not have the property and that they cannot pay the procedure. There is a need to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia and this period of 10 years there we can consider whether it is enough or not. There may also be a need to strengthen because at any time it is necessary to protect Croatia's interest, and that is that if someone was fictitiously showing up that there is no, and in fact there are mechanisms there that we need to find out how we're going to solve it. So here's to not repeating myself, I think I've said a few thesis which are important and which we're going to have to either change in this section or follow during the time of this law's implementation. What is most important is the law must be functional, protect the interests of Croatia, as well as the interests of all parties in the process, whether from the damaged parties, from the damaged party of the defendants and all those involved in the proceedings. This is important because this is a law which is as such one of the very, very important laws in the judicial area, but also in the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We've already discussed this leak, not to repeat it. With regard to the need for the professionality of the people working in the judiciary, I think that all of us together and your ministry and we have indeed created one solid legal basis and framework and Chapter 23 is, in itself, one of the most important conditions for Croatia's entry into the European Union. There have been many good measures, good laws. It is now, in fact, that we educate all parties in the process and make them all the same, and that community will only lead to the real implementation of the law and indeed... of the true... national interests of the Republic of Croatia. We support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60363	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60364	Dear fellow Salapic, you wondered how long cases could stand in the drawer of a state attorney. So it depends on the protagonists of the crime, depends on their power, depends on whether these powers can go as Croatian President Josipovic said the state's attorney should end up in a pot too soon. If we could solve Bajic's black drawer mystery then we'd probably know a lot of secrets, but that drawer is exactly the biggest problem of the entire judiciary. We know all those affairs and 200 criminal charges and... that are held in a drawer or not held in a drawer. Let's just say for the last time I asked for the 10th time I've been told by the police of criminal charges that came from HTV to the State's Attorney's Office, the state's attorney told me there wasn't. The cop who wore that says yes. And now it's that drawer, you asked how much it can be, if it can be done by the laws, or if the minister can explain to us how to solve Bajic's drawer or the state's attorney's drawer, then Bajic won't be forever. You know that Cir's line that says one day I'm gonna leave this world, so I guess we're gonna have some other state's attorney. And as for the confiscation of the illegally acquired property you spoke of, you know that from our mighters, those closest to the fire are all rich. Dad's pensioner, mom's pensioner, kids, everybody's got fairy-tale numbers on their accounts, everybody's got big property, land, everybody's capable, and we need to solve that mystery like that, but in practice. Even the laws can be dealt with, however, Croatian practice is far from what is written in the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60365	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60366	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, this mystery of the black drawer should first and foremost be solved in a way that the implementation of this law should be fully functional. How are we going to make it functional, let's say that I said in this article that six months from the day of enrollment. It's just that the problem of standing objects under quotes in so-called. drawers. You can't let that happen. But I'm sure you'll agree with me, there's one problem in the state's attorney's office and the BIA as such, so we wouldn't think that someone not protecting a state's attorney or a service, but unfortunately there's politics involved in everything, so when you have choices of any level, it's local elections, it's elections for the Parliament, then the State's Attorney's office is covered with a variety of applications that are written against each other, the party, it's all known who stole what they are, they're all terrible, they're all thieves. And it's the suffering of objects of everything and everything to make it work that needs to be employed by another 1,000 people in the State's Attorney's Office so they can read it all and explore it. It's also dangerous. But this is for crimes that are estimated to be of great importance, and now that I'm not repeating names and last names, that's what happened in the past tense. It can't be said that we've been working on it since 2009, and some people have been arrested in 2013 or that the whole public knows in advance who's going to be arrested and that we're just waiting for the day when it's going to be in the paper. And this problem we've said is leaks of information, collaborations of individual investigators with the media, cooperation of individual investigators with certain services that are so-called. The anti-intelligence community, it's all dangerous to implement this law. If we're going to be honest, I'm not protecting anyone here because in order for the system to work, then we have to have professionals in all phases of the system. If we don't have them then it's... and selling information is making money on it and then it's terrible. And then there's not just a black drawer, but there are black people who work in those services.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60367	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please welcome Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60368	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You claim to be a well-respected colleague, and so did everyone, because that's the point, a good part of the essence of this law. So, in addition to efficiency, you place a special emphasis on protecting fundamental human rights and freedoms. As prescribed in our Constitution, the third chapter, and in particular what it discusses, is the norms of the Criminal Procedure Act, are personal and political rights and freedoms and rights. And whose rights and freedoms? The defendant. They're fortunate to be minorities. And imagine now that you have a new self-proclaimed protector of the majority with an unknown, with an even more unknown financier asking whether the hard-working criminals have the right to be informed within the shortest time of time exactly what they are burdened with, that they have the right to a free defender, by their own choice, to be tried in his presence, to interrogate all witnesses and if he is convicted of being fed by the state, protected, cooled when the heat is heating up when winter. What do you think the outcome would be?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60369	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60370	So I don't want to know what the outcome in this case would be the way you said it because I hope it won't be. We have regulations that are good, but we also have a system that doesn't work as a whole. So, we're legalists, lawyers, we were members together at the State Attorney's Council, the State Judicial Council. We've seen people some are less professional, and some are very good. We had our own judgment on that. This system needs to be professionalized. But for me, it's dangerous when I talk about fundamental human rights and freedoms. No matter who we're dealing with because we're having a hard time living, the economic crisis, we're already struggling in 2009, we're having a hard time getting out, we've got a major deficit. Now imagine when something goes down in front of the paper with the arrested headlines. I say don't protect anyone. If we are to have a firm, real law and a proper framework for the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, then certain things should be subject to justice and justice in order for that person to be convicted at the end of the case. But in advance, I was talking about fundamental human rights and freedoms that are so-called. The court of the public is very dangerous because the true phase of legal certainty is being threatened in the process. And if you don't give God such a person a free pass to the entire judiciary and the system and the judiciary because we did something that wasn't the voice of the public. I agree that the public must know everything, that the public must know which person has endangered the state and national interest, who robbed Croatia, who committed the crime, who killed someone. All the things we've been working on for months now here about changing the Constitution to the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure. But we need to leave that part of the judiciary to really establish all the facts in the process, and only then do we have the essential elements of the procedure put public. Because this procedure can fall on one of the very bad elements. I was talking about fundamental human rights and freedoms. That's where we understood each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60371	And now on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60372	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Today we are discussing I would say a basic tool in our judicial system that serves all parties in criminal proceedings. And that's why I think it's impressive to show, maybe we'll break through after Alan Ford and some other topics in the Croatian media. This is a material called amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. By its size, it could be called almost an encyclopedia, especially for those who read only Alan Ford. However, what is the essence of what I wanted to talk about. Amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act shall contain 261 articles. 261 articles on the existing Criminal Procedure Act which, according to some, account for 40% of amendments to the existing law, can only lead to additional confusion, i.e. further legal uncertainty in a system that should be logical, transparent, and above all a system that protects fundamental human rights because this law depends on how much your rights will be protected in some proceedings. And that's why we think that this law that he said would be without a precedent law that must speak of the rule of law, because in this procedure or procedure, all the fundamental human rights of those in these proceedings will rest. He was worth it if he had already decided to make changes, he deserved a new Criminal Procedure Act. This way in this range of changes and additions, I'm afraid they'll only give birth to additional legal uncertainty, because I believe the profession has something to say about it. Here's a fellow Salapic talking about the work of the State Judiciary Council. It would be interesting to ask, and I am convinced that it would be very useful for that body to also show itself about the proposed amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. The Supreme Court, the county courts, also sits there. They could therefore give their opinion on the quality of these changes that are now being submitted before us. They are, as said in the proposal, the consequence of harmonising our legal order with the acquis, i.e. EU legislation, but were, above all, the consequences of the July decision of the Constitutional Court, which abolished the 40th provision of the Criminal Procedure Act. Of course, however, these changes did not only hold on to the abolished provisions but they were much wider. It would take us a long way to discuss whether the law existing, and especially with these amendments and additions, has best balanced the rights and opportunities of all parties in criminal proceedings. On the one hand, the state's attorney who we hold may also have overemphasizing the whole procedure, on the other hand, the part of the defense in criminal matters and finally the judges who judge in criminal matters who have lost part of their role in the criminal proceedings before the law, is now being told them I would impose a role that is difficult for them to achieve in such mixed proceedings. And what the profession says is that we now have more and more criminal proceedings and that we are giving birth to new legal uncertainty by passing a law like this because there will be no knowledge of the provisions of what criminal proceedings and when they will be applied in a specific case, they must be alerted to the Proposer to consider whether this is an adequate way of changing the law. Some of the judges have also come forward in public with their opinion on the quality of this law and think that it produces not only legal uncertainty but I will use the quote, they say there will be chaos because at the same time there will be three laws on criminal proceedings, three de facto enforcement constitutions of conflicting concepts and solutions. It's going to be very hard to work. There will be an increase in the number of decisions abolished. There is still a reminder that we have two penal laws that are currently in force. So instead of two laws regarding a particular substance we have five of them. It's a normative forest that's very hard to find a way out of. And in the most difficult position will be first-degree judges, and much easier won't be defense attorneys or state lawyers. The further generator of the increase in the number of pending cases is the provisions of the Law on the renewal of criminal proceedings, which speak of the fact that, in addition to the existing reasons for the renewal, it can also be sought against the powers of the judgments adopted by the provisions of the 2009 Act. And to this finding of the profession which is obliged to apply these rules on which we are to be made clear should also be added to the already famous Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, and then burdened with saying so to amend the Constitution where we introduce some quite unnecessary, new and very harmful provisions concerning non-depreciation of criminal offences, but in a way that retroactive action of the law leads to new legal uncertainty, leads to new problems in the process of working on criminal matters, and in fact, instead of building a system that would be logical, which would protect human rights in this case and the rights of suspects or later defendants, but also all other parties in the process. We think that these amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act are the best indication that, instead of the amendments, the whole text of the Criminal Procedure Act should have been drawn up, that, of course, it happened again at the last minute, because you have the Constitutional Court's provision that by 13 December it should be arranged and we have, of course, waited almost the last moment, but given the two readings, it probably wasn't too much time, but it would have been much more valuable for the entire judicial system to make a whole new law, not that 40% of the law was treated with amendments and additions. These changes and additions, this profession is already telling you, can only lead to questionable rule of law in our country, and will certainly lead to legal uncertainty from which we will find exits very difficult. So we suggest that you consider whether this is the only and best way to talk about criminal proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60373	Thank you. Replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60374	You tell your colleague that 43 provisions have been abolished, we have all repeated this, but that law was passed during the former HDZ government, although we formed a working group in the long 2003s, and unfortunately it was only passed, and it was kind of fast-tracked, because it hadn't worked for many years, it was passed quickly, and the consequences are that we have 43 abolished provisions. But that's less important now. You say the judges won't know how to handle this forest. Better the jungle than the desert of educated judges. Why is the ministry detaching large funds rather than being constantly educated? And this concern you're talking about is even corrected by the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, which is precisely what law is meant. These are small changes, but that will improve what you're talking about and what could have been some confusion. When you have already touched the amendment of the Constitution where you say it will no longer be that there is no more security because a criminal offence is being instituted, or an unhappiness is being imposed for the crimes of serious murder. Well, that's what we want. We want the killers not to be safe. A lot of criminals of every kind and greats were safe, and honest people were insecure. We want to change that and there is no such thing, there is only security for honest and just people and let such persons be permanently insecure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60375	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60376	Dear fellow Anticevic, I did not speak of the party membership of any government that passed this or that law and time in which it was passed. I was talking about the essence of the problem, about the Law on Criminal Procedure as a basic tool for the work of the judiciary in all criminal matters, so I said when the Constitutional Court decided to abolish 40 provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act that it was worth considering instead of 260 articles of amendments and additions to pass a new Penal Code so that it would be more acceptable to say so in its application. And as for the amendments to the Constitution, unfortunately, you did not convince me, but no one in the Croatian public that you are seeking to punish all perpetrators of serious crimes of murder, which is best told by all of these to say the exhibition moves that you are making by the end of the year by adopting the Constitution and by delaying the application of the law on judicial cooperation, to protect some who have recognised it, if you want not to from the HDZ, which are recognised in the general public as persons who are specifically protected by this Law on Criminal Cooperation and only for a reminder when we return it to a party's story, this law on criminal cooperation has been amended by this coalition government in which your party is the leading party of the coalition and he with the HDZ has nothing to do with you except that HDZ warned you that this is not working and not to ask that all perpetrators of serious crimes are convicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60377	The final word of Justice Minister Orsat Milenic, please welcome the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60378	Thank you very much. I'm just going to go through some of the comments that have been made, or remarks about the law. So, you said a lot in the discussion about leaking information. I agree that's one problem. But he's not just being dealt with by law because we have prescribed and criminal acts, we have mechanisms, etc. But until we realize that all the participants in the proceedings are actually court officials to call them that and until more ethical codes are implemented in all those involved in the process, we are not actually going to be able to deal with it effectively. So that's what the law needs to follow, which is to raise ethics among all the participants in the case, whether it's about state attorneys, defenders, judges and police. So, primarily with them, the defendants are something else. But that's something that, countries that have less problems than us have just built up and they're fighting through it, means through profession and profession and through ethical code and action. We talked about impeaching citizens and whether or not they were obliged to give notice. Of course, they are not obliged to be notified as citizens, when they become witnesses, then they are, and it was completely inappropriate for us to force them now, make a commitment that they must demonstrate in that capacity at the police station, but we have specified the provision and thanks to the debate here which has been inaccurate so far that they can be forced to bring in, as long as they can be kept, etc. There's often talk of frequent changes to the law, and I agree. Of course, any change causes the destabilization of the system on one side. On the other hand, I will always come before you or the Government and suggest what we think is wrong, or what we think needs to be fixed, and it is our duty, so I hope that at some point we will come to change them more rarely, but we should also keep in mind everything that is happening at EU level, and even some amendments to this law will follow the result of the adoption of a certain directive if you want to introduce a European public prosecutor to what is being said but we do not know yet, so we could not install him here. Of course it will cause a certain change. We simply live in such a more dynamic time, what we are talking about here today, and what we are talking about in society is quite a subject in the judiciary of all countries, not just in the judiciary because other countries are changing, and that frequent change of laws I would say is a European characteristic. We're not at the bottom of anything or at the top of this, we're in the middle. But I agree with you that it's a matter of trying to stabilize the system. The registration of applications, which has been discussed, is resolved by the Rules of Procedure, on the other hand, there is a provision in the law that the person who has applied may, within two months, request an indication of the state's attorney's office and then, in fact, determines whether the application is registered or not. So there won't be a situation that she can stay unlisted. There is a review of the Ministry of Justice over this, so this mechanism is elaborated but primarily we will have these, all of this and reports and everything that needs to be regulated by the rules of procedure because it is based on this law. Now less but there was a lot of talk about the short term, the length of the debate, the extent of the change. It will, I'd be happier to discuss this six months ago and we're at this stage but before you are the changes that simply took the time they took. And we chose, we opened a public debate in July and it lasted practically until today because the amendments were tolerated you saw changes that were also the result of a public debate, so we have four months of public debate. We could cut to two weeks, you know that's possible, but then we'd have a longer vacacio legion and where would we come from? We would have a passed law that might be less sophisticated than it is now, and we were consciously going to extend the public debate, that everyone really had a chance to say what to do, but then we had to shorten this deadline. I'd be happier if everything was moved but it just didn't work out before. We talked about monitoring the conversation, we think it's more precisely arranged than before, talking to the defendants and defenders. We need to see and monitor that part of the law, agree and see what the results will be in practice, we have no problem with it so far and we do not expect them in the future, if we will see them. Partial immunity, game rules are now much tighter set up and these things will not happen some that could have happened so far, so there are clearer rules, the quality of statements for which works can be given. It's just not gonna be like someone's getting a lot of, I mean from the defendants. Subtraction of property benefit, extended confiscation is one topic under discussion. Here we are in the law to fix it that way. Let's go, we're moving the burden of evidence to the defendant in certain cases. However, it is a trend which is a European trend. You have even in some countries and civil confiscation, meaning confiscation independently of criminal proceedings. I'd say here and I'll tell you then, here's going to be a change of law again. Thus, the law on confiscation of benefits acquired by criminal acts will be sharpened and changed. And that's one task we took from the beginning of next year teaching on this. Because even though he brought it in and gave the results in practice, we're not happy with him. It has to go faster because it's absurd that someone's being punished, so they're convicted by power and the property hasn't been taken away. And that's something that we as a society cannot tolerate. I'm not saying that current solutions aren't good, but there's a lot of room to improve, and it's going to continue to do this. So it's in this context and the package is with this to raise it to a higher stage. We just can't, none of us want to look, and it's unacceptable that someone who stole or did anything because of the property that means they're benefiting from it. That's absurd, then. Then the prison sentence doesn't mean anything. So that's something that we're going to make a big point of sharpening thanks to this. Not everyone's gonna be happy, primarily criminals, but that's what we're gonna do. There's been a lot of talk now about the profession and the complaints of the profession. Now I'd like to be told what professions. Because we've contacted all the professions. The Supreme Court has no objection, all objected. The state's attorney's office also has DSV, said to consult the DSV I don't know why. The DSV elects, resolves judges, why they should consult on the CAP. If the Supreme Court has consulted where all the criminal justice experts are sitting as far as that goes. Then maybe you could suggest that the state's attorney council consult and I don't know who else. But there's no need because they're consulted through their institutions. So, as far as the profession is concerned, we got all the remarks that we did, we processed it, and it took a long time. All the county courts got the law. They're asked to manifest themselves, they're obvious who they are, some aren't, some are. Municipal courts, also communication through county courts. The Supremes have two obviouss, we've taken everything into account. All the departments of law school got, it was obvious, some did, some didn't. But as far as the profession is concerned, there is actually not a single systematic, objective to this law, the profession that has been manifested to us. If there's any waist beyond that we don't know about, I don't know if she's the waist. But I'm telling you if you have anyone from the profession having any big remarks I'd like to hear. Because then I can know what it's about. But I'm telling you, no one has systematically shown themselves to this law with any major problems. They are those who have been resentful, we have taken it, we have uncommunicated it, etc. But I'm saying if there's any other profession beyond this that I've listed, let me know and we'll see. Legal uncertainty, no legal uncertainty. If we provide better processing, if we protect the defendant's rights, so should we miss it. I can't figure it out. I still can't understand the invitation not to actually pass this law, these amendments in order to safeguard legal certainty. Who? Criminals, so we're tightening the law here. If we want to protect the legal security of criminals, then we won't bring it in, but it's not an emergency. So no, yeah, criminals won't be legally safe, I agree, but that's their problem. But at the same time, we're talking about the profession, the bar, you mentioned that they filed a constitutional, yes, but most of their objections got into this. So that profession will be satisfied with this. Of course, there must always be a balance. Because you have a side that sues, you have a side that defends. You have the court. The court is the one who actually is and we're putting it, the stronger the role of the court in this whole thing because that's the intensity. And I can't accept the thesis that our judges won't be able to handle it. That's absolutely unacceptable. So here it's said that the judges won't be able to implement what we... Put it on. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't understand. The judges have been educated, given excellent results so far, and we need to trust them. So it's impossible that they couldn't handle this. The balance was trying to achieve. So between, on the one hand, the defendant's rights. But we must protect society, the procedure must be effective. So we have to put the mechanisms on so that we can shut down whoever's really guilty and the one who's innocent, of course, should be released. So, I repeat, if there's anyone who thinks it's not good for the profession, let me know who it is. Because I mean anonymously speaking waist says this or that and I'm telling you that the waist says the opposite is pointless. So, I thank everyone for supporting the law. I said from the debate everything we could and thank you for that, and always all the remarks that we are trying to make here, and here we listed the whole series that we took from the debate and built into the law. And here, if it's up to this law, you'll later see a whole series of other people following it, who also have to change because of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60379	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60380	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I very much agree with this definition of yours, so who is actually being protected and who is legally safe and who is insecure. So, with the criminal profession certainly not, the criminal profession is not satisfied with such a legal solution. What especially hurts our citizens I am not a lawyer but that is what we see almost daily, it is not taking away the property benefits that criminals and all those who have done so have acquired and it is particularly painful for Croatian society, Croatian citizens who watch on TV every day on television and on radio and from other media who learn about criminal acts. What I was going to say, and you were talking about efficiency, the effectiveness of the state's attorney's office, and that's that I'm already talking here on a number of occasions about the initiation of proceedings against what doesn't get old, which belongs to the State's Attorney's office, which is war crimes. I must tell you, too, as Minister, that 30 children died in Slavonski Brod since the bombing of the enemy, the aggressor. Kids. About adults not to talk, hundreds, civilians, not soldiers. So 30 children who thank God weren't soldiers. And that the State's Attorney's Office hasn't conducted any procedure in years, despite this place or the pay phone, I can warn you of that. There is also a Sun Association which has a similar problem with the launch of proceedings against members of these associations, primarily from Vukovar and the surrounding area, so they committed a crime against, the most serious crimes and war crimes. And where did we come from with action, efficiency as you say to the State's Attorney's Office? In accordance with Article 206 of the Financial
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60381	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60382	Here I would just like to thank you for pointing out, in fact, the problem of war crimes and persecution. It's something we insist on. I've talked a lot about it myself, and I'm going to insist. Of course all of our stories won't end until we've finished that part, which is war crimes, so until everything is investigated, processed and finished, and sure as hell we have to do more. Here's what I'm saying as a ministry we insist on. As far as we're concerned, we've done a good part. I think the results will be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60383	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60384	Dear Minister, what you said, that, I agree, legal uncertainty for criminals should occur finally and property uncertainty for criminals, that is the most important. What my colleague Grubisic was saying, as I was saying in the debate, is that the people are not being taken away from what has been stolen and what has been going on for years, which has been pointing to the finger for years, as you have stated, and the property remains with those who robbed it and then is said in the people in Croatia it is worth stealing. It's the most profitable job. It's the least of its risks. You serve two years in prison, you peel a little potatoes and you get millions left in your account, you're left with cottages, boats, cars, and that people hurt, and that's a big injustice. Not only is there a great injustice, but the great property damage has been done, and we're acting like drunk millionaires like we don't care. And what you said, now you've transferred the burden of proof to the suspect, and that the state needs to prove how he acquired that property. Well, I guess he should, there's a tax card. I mean, it's very simple. The problem is that you haven't answered us even though we've insisted on a few of us, and that's the problem with that damn drawer that objects, length of life, these black drawers where everything inside is hidden, and the public would be very happy to know the reasons why it's in those drawers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60385	Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60386	Maybe I wasn't precise enough. So let's say this, I don't believe there's a drawer, but if there were then this law in its Article 206. If they don't get it, but it's a public procedure now, they can even seek judicial protection in that case, primarily going from a senior state attorney, but they can look beyond that, and they can look for inspection protection. So what you can do is make it transparent, simply to the one who submits the application given the right to get an answer to what's going on with it. Later those deadlines after enrolment 6 months, etc. So I should say hypothetically if she existed with this, she wouldn't be. I also said that this will all be specified by the Rules of Procedure because you cannot regulate all these things by law, which is based on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60387	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60388	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, so I'm re-connecting to Article 206a and b. The victim and the damage victim have the right to go past 2 months, they have the right to do so and they don't have to use it, so they have the right doesn't mean that an anonymous notifier, no anonymous criminal record, we don't know who the person who reported it is. I'm afraid a manipulative deadline is still extending, it's 2+6=8, but if no one asks for 2 months of information about what happened to it, and I don't believe that when these elections are anonymous, they write against their opponents, they'll call the State's Attorney's office and tell them I reported him to do it. No, that's impossible. So yet one manipulative deadline exists and it should perhaps be the Rules of Procedure if it can be resolved. It'd be good, but then they'd throw any doubt away from this standing case. I fear that sometimes some things did not happen by accident in Croatia but by purpose and if we wanted to strengthen the role of the Croatian judiciary on the threshold of Croatia's entry into the European Union and if it contributed to the fact that it was good then, and if it is not. But I think we should stop it if we can't intervene in the law, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60389	Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60390	Thank you very much. So as I said, it will be settled with the Rules of Procedure and we do not expect these things to happen, but it is one side. On the other hand, we all need to build a system and trust it. So we have to start by assuming that there are professionals working there, it's an independent judicial body, and they're doing everything legally and properly. So if something happens somewhere else, it's an incident that's going to happen through this. But the institution works well. Whether something happens or not, you understand what I'm saying. So let's not always think about some kind of a hundred negatives and try to shut them down because we'll never close them down. It's important to build professionalism in the system, independence, allow it to work well. If there's an incident, something hasn't been signed up for it, it's going to be sanctioned. But the assumption is, and I'm sure that's how it's gonna fit in on time and procedure. Because if we go backwards, we can never do the job right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60391	And Davor's Mlakar, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60392	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, since you're asking me questions, I understand that as a gallant and perfectly normal debate, I'd be happy to answer that. You said there was a public debate about the text of this law for four months, so maybe that's why it comes so late to Parliament. Then I suggest you that these are the too democratic steps of your ministry because we have seen that the Constitution is sufficient for six days of public debate. Maybe if you'd cut to six days for less important laws, it would have been better. You asked why the State Judiciary Council appointed by the judges not because it appoints judges, but because it has chosen people of the profession and not only judges, but also representatives of the scientific community who could give their opinion. At least you asked what kind of profession I'm referring to. I didn't even want to read to you what the profession told you, but the quote I took from you from the President of the County Court was otherwise a criminal judge who told you among other things that the Code of Criminal Procedure was not a law but a Frankenstein or a strange beak. It's at least part of the profession's opinion on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60393	The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60394	So waist. Supreme Court's been consulted. All law schools, criminal law departments the same, all county courts. I don't know which president of the County Court you're referring to because we didn't get any evidence. And there is no such indication officially. Is anyone going around, talking something that's his problem. But everyone could be honored if he had already made remarks and wanted the law to be a better fit, so he wrote down what these remarks were, and we considered them and included them. But reacting to something that says or doesn't say, I have to admit, I don't know. But I'm telling you that all the county courts, their presidents, have received a request from me personally to show themselves. Those who manifested themselves have been considered, those who did not, and so will be in the future. Just because someone goes around, talks or not, I don't even know who that is, and I don't care about his problem. There is a law-making procedure where people consult and whoever wants to participate will participate. Whoever wants to talk around will talk, his thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60395	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60396	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 488. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in favour of discussing the amendments of the government of the Republic of Croatia? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, with 78 votes in favour and 20 abstentions, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to explain the Republic of Croatia's amendments, Mrs Sandra Artuković Kunst, Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament Amendment No. 1. On the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, it consists in adding the word justly. Namely, the defendant has the right to decide, by law, by establishing an independent and impartial fair, public and within a reasonable period of time, on the charge in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60398	I am opening a debate on the first amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm closing the debate. It shall put amendments 1 to the vote. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. We accepted this amendment with 81 votes in, 12 against and four abstentions. Please explain Amendment 2. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60399	Thank you very much. In Article 63, we refer to the correct text. For example, instead of misinviting to Article 19b paragraph 4, the correct word is 19b. 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60400	Thank you for your explanation. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. We accepted this amendment with 79 votes for and 17 abstentions. Please, Madam Deputy, explain Amendment 3. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60401	Thank you very much. In Amendment 3 as well as in the previous amendment, we refer to the corresponding paragraph. Article 19(4) shall therefore be replaced by the words ‘Article 19b(5)’.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60402	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 3. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. We accepted this amendment with 91 votes for and 4 against. Please provide an explanation for Amendment 4. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60403	In Amendment 4, we propose that the use of the word measure be replaced by the appropriate concept of the correct legal term of action.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60404	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the amendment. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. We adopted the amendment with 78 votes for and 17 abstentions. I'd like an explanation for Amendment 5, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60405	Thank you. Amendment No. 5. We also propose a reference to the corresponding or correct item. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60406	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 5. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? And the result? We've adopted the amendment with 78 votes for and 18 abstentions. Amendment 6. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60407	In Amendment 6, we propose an intervention in Article 168 amending Articles 3 and 4.7. There was a printing mistake, so instead of the item, the item was printed. So we suggest that we change the word and the point in the paragraph and call to number 4. replace it with the number 5. So call on the correct item.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60408	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 6. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has been accepted by 84 votes in favour and 12 abstentions. Amendment 7. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60409	In Amendment 7, we propose to correct the wrong call to Article 361 as it is correct on Article 360.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60410	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 7. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. We've adopted the amendment with 78 votes for and 18 abstentions. Amendment 8. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60411	Thank you very much. This amendment requires a slightly broader explanation, therefore it is not purely nomotechnical, although it is actually a matter of different style of this provision, so from one passive form as we have previously suggested. Now we've stylishd the provision in an active sense, so 2 degree court when they file a motion for a verdict for those crimes that are being prosecuted by official duty delivers the file to the State's attorney. The state's attorney's file returns within eight days and what's important here is to point out and we're a provision in the same sense and we proposed in the bill. So it has no change whatsoever except that from this passive form it has become active but it needs to be stressed. This provision has already been the subject of an examination before the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Zahirovic against the Republic where it has been decided whether the equality of arms of those involved in the criminal proceedings is guaranteed by this provision and is guaranteed, so neither is the European Court of Human Rights disputed that the file is delivered to a state lawyer in those cases which are carried out under official duty. What we're changing is that we're leaving out the possibility of the state's attorney giving an opinion on the basis of the complaint. That is how it is in the basic draft of the law and there is no change in view of the amendments. What's important to point out, therefore, the state's attorney has eight days to actually check the work of the lower state's attorneys and in relation to the opposing party or defence in the process, it can only be added value because the only room of the state's attorney's office if he sees that there have been certain failures in the work of the lower state's attorneys is to withdraw the appeal and withdraw the appeal for the defendant is actually the most favourable circumstance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60412	Thank you for your explanation. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving a statement to Amendment 8 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has been accepted by 89 votes and seven abstentions. Amendment 9 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60413	Thank you very much. We are also giving a slightly broader explanation here because the amendment and the substantive extension of the provision, a provision that solves the situation when the deadline for the indictment has been dropped. So, if the state's attorney didn't press charges within the appropriate deadline, and he did it for his stagnant part, we first, in the bill of law, gave one deadline, two months. With this amendment, we seek to extend the deadline to be subjective and objective. Namely, the moment when they will determine the strict responsibility of the state's attorney is the moment when the State's Attorney's Council will decide on that. And it's a very recognizable moment. So, it's known when the state's attorney council will decide and we think the deadline here for a month is enough. But there will be circumstances that will not be known to have been missed because of a strict responsibility. We have estimated that this initially proposed two-month deadline is still insufficient and that an objective six-month deadline would be an amendment. It's a long time. The purpose of this intervention is to protect the rights of victims and damages because victims and damages are of course interested in the conduct of criminal proceedings, so if there has been a failure to press charges over the strict work of a state attorney, let at least the time during which it can be intervened be longer to press charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60414	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving a statement to Amendment 9 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The amendment was passed with 91 votes for and 7 abstentions. And finally Amendment 10 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60415	In this amendment, we propose to intervene in a provision that regulates a special requirement for conversion, so there is the possibility of determining the investigative prison and for those who are therefore persons who were innumerable at the time of the crime. It should be pointed out that for the innumerable persons detained means turning a prison institution rather than providing medical care. Therefore, persons who were innumerable will be if they have been decided to be treated in an institution. What we are proposing here as an intervention with the amendment is to move that possibility to give the person medical care if it is innumerable, not only in time from the prosecution as previously proposed but also in time from the initiation of the crime. So, the goal is to put the innumerable suspects in a position of health care as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60416	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving a statement to Amendment 10 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The amendment was accepted with 88 votes for and 20 abstentions. We are moving on to the amendments to the Legislative Committee. Madam Deputy, Amendment 1 to Article 215.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60417	The government is manifested in relation to Amendment No. 1 of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament so that it does not accept it since the content of this amendment has been reached by amendment 8 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60418	The amendment has been withdrawn. [[Intruder: accepted and withdrawn amendment.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60419	The government accepts the amendment to Articles 257 and 260 by replacing the term "this law" in relation to the 257th time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60420	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60421	The Good Amendment has been accepted in this kind of modified form. Thank you. That's when we finished discussing the amendments. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law to note that the adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes. I'm asking, who's up for this law? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. The law has been passed. The law was voted by 83 MPs, 12 were against and 1 abstention. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 85, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60422	We will discuss - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, second reading, P.Z. No. 439. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by Justice Minister Mr Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60423	Thank you very much. Here's another theme. So I'm just going to say change from first draft to first reading. It concerns Article 4a. which requires actually insight into the registers where we, therefore, are now an independent topic. We generally need to handle our registers and what is allowed and which is not and in what way. But we're expanding the possibility here means that the register is also available without compensation to other bodies. At this point, we need that thing until we can arrange one systematic approach not to these registers, not only in the judiciary, but in general. So here's the only difference compared to previous reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60424	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60425	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register in the principle of the Croatian Democratic Community club supports it because it is necessary to amend and supplement the law in order to comply with EU rules, and with the amendments necessary for the better functioning of the law in question. We particularly support the amendments to the laws relating to the participation of judicial advisers in the decision-making process in the first degree, which will allow judges to be relieved and have more time to resolve more complex cases. Namely, the court advisers are persons who are of the same degree of education as judges, and they meet all the conditions for judges, so as the court advisers in most courts have a long-standing standing, we believe that resolving these cases placed in the jurisdiction of the judges would not be a problem for them, and the more the appeal can be made against the decisions of the judicial advisers, the same judge of the individual of that court, and the appeal against his decision of the Council drawn up by the three judges. Therefore, such a way of prescribing the control of the work of a judicial adviser is ensured by the proper application of the law, and also the judges of the Commercial Courts are freed from a large part of the work which is more technical and could therefore be more committed to working on other more complex cases. We also support this law because we believe that these changes and additions will further improve the regulation of this substance which appears to be so small and irrelevant, but it actually means either the death of one economic operator or one company, life and death. Moreover, the final proposal for a law provides for a legal situation which has been shown in practice often in relation to the court's conduct in a situation where, after the removal of the registration, the property of the deleter is shown to be a property to be shared. It is therefore a good solution in Article 70 of the Law, which is complemented by this final proposal that creditors in the liquidation process and who have already begun the procedure before these amendments of the law do not put themselves in a more unfavourable position than those who will be parties to the procedure after the entry into force of this law. What we have advocated through the first reading and made as an objection which is not accepted refers to Article 38, which prescribes that the solution must have an explanation although the procedure is suspended due to withdrawal of the application or is considered to be withdrawn, excessive or unnecessary. In fact, we see no reason why a court adviser would be bothered by making a solution with an explanation if the party withdraws the proposal. And in the end, what does a party's argument want when she withdraws her own proposal? Finally, it is also good that some nomotechnical inconsistencies have been seen and corrected, and some articles have been arranged with a clear statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60426	Thank you very much. On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60427	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This final draft law amending and supplementing the SDP Court Register Act supports. We believe that the speed at which commercial courts operate in general and in particular commercial courts act directly on the development of the economy. We therefore hold that such an amendment will be made because the court register as a public book whose enrolment creates certain legal effects for both registration entities and third parties is of paramount importance for our economy. Therefore, the removal of all barriers and some of the concerns that have arisen so far, as Mr. Minister has stated, and this is about the subject of the business itself, i.e. The activities of the entities that we know almost every activity has arranged for themselves what activities these activities are and so on. It created a big mess in the trade court itself, i.e. courts running the court register, and the same question arises as to what is to be shared with the property or after the removal of the subject's registration from the register? So that is how the provision of Article 70 is complemented because we have a large number of proceedings before the courts. The proposal is therefore that such an updated provision should also apply to registration entities which have been deleted before the entry into force of this law, so that the creditors in the liquidation proceedings they have already begun would not be put into an unfavourable position by those who will initiate the proceedings after the entry into force of this law. And as has already been said, this law is in line with the laws that we have passed before, which entered the date of Croatia's accession to the EU, as the Law on the introduction of a European cooperative. We therefore support this amendment, which gives greater engagement to court advisers while judges themselves and their valuable work, and ultimately, and which we all pay together to reserve them for trial cases, for complex proceedings, but also for this reason, this law will also be the most qualified, which is precisely the judges in commercial courts, free to work on other cases, cases of trial in trade disputes. So, we are also in line with that long-standing directive that judges officials concentrate only on trial cases and that on all so-called so-called. non-judgmental actions to be reserved and left to those in court who also have qualifications but who are not judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60428	Respect. On behalf of the HNS club, the esteemed representative, Nada Turina-Đuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In this proposal, the law is mostly nomotechnically improved and I am perfecting the text of the law. In the HNS, we believe that these legal changes are good, we also stressed in the debate at first reading, and that the procedure itself that determines this law is done through the proposal is safer and faster. The amendments shall specify exactly what court is in local jurisdiction and shall confer powers on authorised registrants to handle certain cases on their own, which shall certainly contribute to the discharging of courts and to their better efficiency. In addition, the draft law sets out the first degree of equality with the court advisers, which also has the purpose of quality of work, i.e. the effectiveness of the whole procedure. The possibility of reporting by electronic means and through the Office HItro.hr is prescribed, thus modernising and speeding up the whole process. An objection is being introduced as a legal remedy which we see as an improvement in the legal protection of entities in the process. We believe that this bill is good and regulates the process of eradicating entities without liquidation under official duty when they have failed to fulfil their obligations. published annual reports for three years. The failure to comply with this obligation was the reason for the termination of society under the Company Act and the big problem was to enable the rapid disappearance from the market and the termination of their property legal liability so that these changes greatly improved it. It facilitates the procedure as it introduces a general indication of the group of activities for which entities are registered, instead of the previous enrollment of activities in accordance with specific laws which it has very much to facilitate and speed up the procedure. And finally, we in the Croatian People's Party think that change is good. In general, the law as a whole modernises, goes into step with time, complies with EU rules, procedures are facilitated, accelerated, certain items are completed, legal gaps and legal uncertainty are reduced. The HNS Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60430	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary's missing, but I think he'll hear, so maybe he'll answer some questions. In this final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, it is nice to write that the basic problem of eradicating non-recording entities is that those economic operators allow for the rapid disappearance of the market and the termination of their property legal liability. Therefore, the proposed changes remove unknowns that have occurred and the adverse consequences of the eradication procedures, in these 20 and a few years of Croatia's state we have seen how this is done professionally and how the company's erasure and disappearance were used, so the economic operator, and then the opening on behalf of the other person or with another obligation, and the obligations that this company has made to the faithful have fallen into the cat as they say or passed the grandmother with cookies as one advertisement on our television says. Now, if that were the case and if it were to be so feasible and if it had fully lived up to what it says in the reasons why the law is being passed and the questions that are being settled by this law, then it would really be to say fantasy, it would be great. I do not express my sole suspicion, but here is this reason why the law is very good. And that's basically the reason for this. In what it says in the opening work, who has all the right to enroll, to create so-called. The possibility of both court advisers and registries enrolling in the court register is opened, okay, so we make it easier for judges to work, so we make it easier for the judicial institutions. This is so and so out-of-party proceedings if there are any disputes. So, it makes it easier to process this matter before the courts. Furthermore, what is also important is that the problem not only the parties face but also the public notebooks and the registration court where it represents the registration of business subjects says activities. Therefore, what is listed in the registration of any economic operator, and what is reported in the proceedings before the courts in question unless it is entered in the registration itself, is a problem both in these cases and in these court proceedings, there is a great deal. What I have observed in this material is that the following types of entities are entered in the entry and said in the register: from 1-14, public company, command company, economic interest association, company, limited liability company, trader individual, European society, European economic interest society, community of institutions, cooperatives, association of cooperatives, credit union and other persons for whom the registration is prescribed by law. Now, we've passed a law here under which to establish Mr. Minister, therefore, a simple society with limited responsibility. So, the simple society, that 10 kuna registration of the issued capital, as it is said, appears, is paid, and it is simple d.o.o. It is not stated in this whether it belongs to one of these categories that are here, so it may be in 14, another person and if it is a company for which the registration is prescribed by law, maybe so, I don't know but it's really not listed in this, in the entries, so I would ask an explanation or to add perhaps here to these registration entities and simply d.o.o. As my predecessors, the law as a law is good mainly because of what I initially said to avoid and to prevent the possibility of saying fraud, it's simply fraud, the crime that has happened so far in our society when one society disappears, win another with another name or other owner, son, daughter, this, that and we go clean start, over and over again, then they'd be cheating on their creditors or some other believers and that shouldn't be so in a country like this that is a member of the EU, we'll have to finally have that register, know who can sign it up and why they're moving or judicial proceedings, and especially when things happen when they're being deleted. so complex and perhaps as important as the occurrences of eradicating societies are. That's much more important. And the obligations that every economic operator, the company has in deleting from the register, i.e. from the records. The HDSSB club will support this legislative proposal. Of course, and we thank the Minister for his cooperation, here is always the good will to explain things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60432	Final review, Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60433	Thank you very much. I thank you for supporting this Law, or amendments. Maybe two views. One was to explain the withdrawal in 38. I think it was in the right debate. And we've been thinking about it. However, here I will tell you from practice, it often happened to me that someone pulls something and remembers that they would no longer so complains themselves against their own and then a senior court cannot question it and therefore it takes at least a brief, spectre of why such a decision was made. Always, it won't burden anyone and it'll come in handy because something might be more controversial. This simple limited-responsibility society was discussed on the working group. And it's concluded that we, it absolutely supports the profession, when we're talking, but that profession that's being declared as such, and not anonymous, it belongs to a limited-responsibility society. So it's covered with it. We here put in transitional and final provisions a provision concerning and already deleted societies and it is a retroactive application but we simply have to do it because of these situations that you said they would not appear in practice. Here, that's thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60434	I thank the minister. We move on to, the debate on the text of the law is over, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, second reading, P.Z. No. 439. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like to ask Ms. Deputy Sandra Artuković Kunscht to come to the pay phone. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60436	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60437	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 to Articles 20 and 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60438	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60439	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 3 to Article 51
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60440	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60441	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60442	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60443	It becomes an integral part of the law. All amendments have been accepted. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The law was passed unanimously with 97 votes in favour. So let's move on to the following point: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 532; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Justice Mr Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60445	Thank you very much. So this is one of the following laws, the Code of Criminal Procedure. There, of course, we went to make the same changes needed because of the CAP they primarily refer to actually removing parts of the provisions that overlapped. Because the Law on the State's Attorney's Office should be primarily an organisational regulation that prescribes a body rather than a procedural one, and part of the provision meant it was in this law as well. So that's moving. But we've made some other changes that are a little bit wider than that, so I'm going to look back on them. First of all, it concerns those of our reconnaissances, i.e. researching property benefits where we are actually forming through this law what we have given in the CAP as a commitment. So this is where he was executed organisationally. You'll see it later in the USCOD Act. Second, we are solving, or prescribing some new disciplines. So, the connection to that debate we had about black drawers, etc., here are now prescribing tight deeds, so if you don't act in, so if you don't take procedural actions in the law of a certain time limit. So I'm looking, I'm saying you need to watch, it's a package of laws that one goes through with the other. Secondly, a period of 6 months to resolve criminal charges has been transferred to the CAPs as I have already said. However, what may be changes that I would like to point out in particular when it comes to civil and administrative proceedings. So there are changes that, these are very important, they concern the CAP and are sort of processed through them, but some things we change in civil action and... Therefore, firstly, the main state attorney must report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on matters of special state interest and on the handling of these matters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore impossible for certain matters of civil or administrative action that are of state interest to actually conduct parallel actions that the Government does not know about. And that, unfortunately, has made it possible for the legal solution so far. And that's not something we think is a good practice. And we believe we must have a notice. It's not secret procedures, it's not investigations, it's civil proceedings, but there's got to be information about it. It is also logical and normal that the Government must give and may have the opportunity to give an opinion. Because you're in a situation where, say, you can donate certain assets but you can't decide to give up the cost of the 1000 kuna procedure. That's the situation under the current legal arrangement, that's what we're changing. So we're not saying he's giving instructions, but he's giving an opinion. And we think it's going to improve the state's attorneyship's behaviour in, meaning civil administration matters. There was also a lot of conversation and we had actually, it was past I would say maybe even in absurdity, dealing with real estate where there was always a need to seek the opinion of the state's attorney's office. But that opinion has actually become quite formal over time, so it says O.K., the contract has all the essential ingredients and that's it, I mean it's something that every lawyer knows or doesn't know. We move this obligation here to be able but we prescribe that the quality of opinion on it must be much deeper than mere formalities. Because we don't need a formality. I'll tell you, as a minister or anyone, it doesn't mean anything to you that someone tells you the contract has all the essential ingredients. And that's an opinion. It doesn't mean anything. But I sometimes need professional help, someone we pay to actually tell me O.K., yes, but you're not protected at this point, you have to put this insurance, not suggest etc. So that's what we're trying to change. So, the paradigm of acting that, more informs the executive authority, exactly, not only in criminal proceedings in these other proceedings, but also more active role of the State's Attorney's office and actually getting quality in practice because I say form means nothing to us if we don't get feedback on content. So these are some of the important things that concern the civil part, and this is actually more or less consistent with the CAP, with some of the points that I've put in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60446	I thank Minister Milenić. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke Work Club, a respected colleague, Branko Vuksic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60447	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Croatian Labourists will initially support this law as will support this package of laws, as said the minister who is being brought here. We think that these are far better-quality solutions and we fully agree with that finding that the laws should be amended so long as we do not conclude ourselves that the closest ideal to achieving far greater legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia than it is today, and we know well that the legal certainty of citizens in the Republic of Croatia is very questionable. The law before us on the State Attorney's Office, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, concerns and changes precisely because the CAP is changing and this law actually complements the CAP and explains many of the things set out in the CAP. Very important are the provisions that limit, at least that's what we think, possible manipulation. What we were saying earlier, and these are the secret drawers that Mr Milenić considers not to exist, and if we were to do a survey now among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I think that 99% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would round up the answer in which the drawers are said to exist, and it is quite logical that citizens have this view because everything that has been happening in practice. Also, what I quoted earlier as the president of the Republic of Mr. Ivo Josipovic who said Mr. Mladen Bajic pulled some items out of the drawer later on because he would not end up in a pot. So he admitted indirectly that there were files that stood still, but they did not open for it, people did not and the crimes were not prosecuted because there was no political will and because of the lack of political will, it was absolutely certain that, suggested by Mr. Josipovic, the state lawyer Mladen Bajic would end up in a pot or be replaced by disobedience, and disobedience is contained in that he would not listen to the powers to cover up their misdeeds. This law makes this manipulation that I was talking about quite certain the maneuvering space for it is far less. The law stipulates which papers in the work of the State's Attorney's Office are considered secret because we know well that from local leaders to the highest peak we love what we don't want to come out of sight and that we don't want the public to know how to declare it a secret. It is very important, again, to stress, the most important provision for Croatian Labourists, and therefore will support this law in a very warm way, is the fact that the state's attorney is obliged to immediately take or impose, as it writes, on taking property reconnaissances in order to determine the value of the property benefit achieved by the criminal act. I hope that the practice equally or at least in half will be effective in view of this law and of all those laws that allow the property acquired by crime to finally begin to be taken away. So far, the practice of only 20 assets seized in the last few years when it started to be discussed, when the climate that should be said at all, was created by the former government when it opened up a front to fight corruption, that this collection of taken away property would be greatly increased and that it would certainly benefit not only because justice would be done, but because the Croatian state would get what was taken away from it or if it was taken away from a non-legal but natural person. A time limit shall be laid down for the resolution of the criminal application in cases where no investigation is carried out. So most important, as I said earlier, are the very important things that the minister used to say tight measures for black drawers, so to hide, conceal, and concealment should be agreed to participate in the crime. And if this package of laws, with this law we're talking about now, starts living in practice, the Croatian state will be a far more regulated country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60448	Thank you. It is the SDP club and respected colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorney's Office and they are in a certain section as we have heard conditioned by the execution of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision and by harmonising with the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Criminal Procedure as well as the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia. The SDP Club will support these amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorney's Office, primarily for the reasons that we are committed to spotting and effective confiscation of property acquired by criminal activity. In a simple dictionary, if we don't take the criminals' property, we haven't done anything. The property benefit shall be any increase or prevention of the reduction of assets, whether material or immaterial, movable or immovable, or a correction in any form, a correction proving the right or interest of the property directly or indirectly achieved by a criminal offence. No one shall retain the property benefit achieved by committing a criminal offence and the property benefit should be deducted derived from the entire criminal activity. The property benefit of the crime is pure profit. It includes all things and rights that can be subject to performance, movement, real estate, demand, business stakes, shares, money, precious metal, precious stones. By confiscation of the property, it is logical to impose itself as an effective means of countering the crime facing the acquisition of property benefit. If that is not the case, then criminal acquisition of the property benefit is paid regardless of the penalties imposed for committing a criminal offence. The problem of confiscation of property benefits achieved by criminal activities is at the heart of public interest, which is quite understandable. Organized economic crime, which often takes on international dimensions, characterizes precisely the acquisition of the property benefit of significant scales that can seriously damage the functioning of a country's economic system. Unfortunately, we are witnessing as much as we are witnessing to what extent. Therefore, the SDP club supports any effort to establish adequate mechanisms, mechanisms that will enable effective identification and confiscation and only confiscation of illegally acquired property benefits. Because there is no effective fight against crime and corruption unless effective confiscation mechanisms are established benefiting from criminal activity. And that's why it's a good announcement that we heard from the minister, and that's that we're about to be met and amended by the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by a criminal act that will surely go further, so to speak, by perfecting all the mechanisms that will be on that track. The new Penal Code, which entered into force in 1.1 this year, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedures which we have discussed in the recent debate, gives rise to the principle that no one can maintain the property benefit of a criminal offence. The amendments and additions of the Criminal Procedure Act provide for where there is a reasonable doubt that a criminal offence has been committed, therefore it is not conditional on the existence of the perpetrator's guilt but on the reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed under official duty and that the property benefit of the State's attorney is to be taken immediately and to impose the reconnaissance to determine the value of that benefit and to determine where that acquired property is located. The amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act provide that the State Attorney's Office, in the case of property benefit, will require the police and the Ministry of Finance to make themselves available to him to the officers who will be involved in the reconnaissances under his supervision, officials who will act on the orders of the State Attorney and be responsible for his work. It further prescribes the obligation to set up a special department for carrying out real estate reconnaissances. As a consequence of all these amendments, the addition of the Law on Criminal Procedure is also the result of these amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorneyy which provide for the Departments of Research of Assets obtained by criminal acts, the scope of the affairs and the structure of those departments. Let us remember the reports so far, and we are also witnessing the 2012 State Attorney's Report that the State's Attorney's Office in its report points out that special attention is being paid to the implementation of the so-called State's Attorney's Office. financial investigations starting at the earliest stages of the reconnaissance. The principle that no one can maintain the property benefit achieved by the criminal act is to carry out the State's attorney's office in a consistent manner. Not only corruption and criminal offences of organised crime, but also more than 50% of all criminal offences reported seem to be for the sake of obtaining property benefit. Therefore, the assets of the suspects as well as the assets of the associated persons should be frozen in time. In order to establish the value of the property benefit achieved by criminal acts, departments that will sublime specific knowledge both from the area of law and from the area of finance and business using new technologies, which not all public lawyers are certainly required for spotless and effective confiscation of the property benefit achieved by criminal activity. Furthermore, we welcome the imposed obligation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to the legislator, which is to prescribe a time limit for resolving criminal charges in cases where no investigation is carried out. According to the amended amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, a State lawyer is required to make a decision on a criminal application within 6 months and inform the applicant thereof. These amendments and the non-resolvements are intended as a stupendous act. Namely, it will be considered that the deputy attorney general does not exercise an unwarranted duty unless he has acted on the legal deadlines and, inter alia, in this case an unwarranted non-registration of a criminal application within 6 months. I don't need to stress in particular that each of us could list some of the cases of non-resolvement of criminal charges. In previous discussions, we could hear about black drawers. Very often and almost always during these discussions, Bajic is mentioned. As often as we hear from a pay phone, here's what I'm saying to inform the public. So I will now say to the public that criminal offences that are not being investigated and criminal charges that will have to be resolved within 6 months, so the one for which no investigation is being carried out cannot be linked to Bajic. We can only link this to municipal and county state attorneys. State lawyers, i.e. State attorneys, both municipal and county attorneys, were, in that sense, under the authority of the State Attorney's Council and I were also tortured by the release of criminal charges for which we all witnessed in our midst, and I was also on the Justice Committee of the State's Attorney's Office and asked and I got the supplement and I will discuss it more widely in the 2012 report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office. And to conclude, we support the intended obligation of a state attorney to report to the government on cases which are determined for the property interests of the Republic of Croatia or civil administrative matters. This enables the Government to give its opinion on how to act, all in order to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia. The protection of the assets of the Republic of Croatia is certainly located in cases of special state interest in which the State's attorney's office is authorised and obliged to take action to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia. And for all reason, the SDP club will support these changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60450	Thank you. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60451	My colleagues don't agree with your way of thinking, or what you've said, in fact, I don't think I can ever understand your thinking, can I? But what you said by defending him, then, I'm not attacking him, so the Attorney General, and you've transferred all the weight of non-compliance to the municipal state attorney's office. So in DORH, there's a hierarchy in short-term short. Written or unwritten but there is a hierarchy and even in this legal act it exists. Therefore, when you get a criminal application or when the Municipal State Attorney's Office gets it, he consults with the Attorney General almost in any case. So don't put all the blame on the inactivity of the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60452	Replication response, Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60453	Thank you very much. My colleague, I am certainly not the person who defends the state's attorney Mladen Bajic, it is also evident on the issues I ask on both the Justice Committee and my discussions on his reports. But we should still know who's responsible for what. What is a state lawyer now in the person Mladen Bajic is in charge of municipal and county attorneys is that he gives them mandatory instructions and that was exactly my reason for asking to supplement the 2012 State Attorney's Report. And you see, as far as the tight measures are concerned, and I got that information, so I'm going to tell you now, the State Attorney's Council resolved last year, in 2012, four deputy lawyers, just four. And we're all likely to witness that in the authority of municipal and county attorneys there's a lot of criminal charges that haven't been processed in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60454	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS will speak to the respected representative Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. We will support these amendments and the additions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office because these changes are going so vividly I would say hand in hand with amendments to the CAP. And I agree that this entire body of laws should be constantly monitored and processed, complemented, strengthened and aligned with real life because those who want to play the law in this sense in which we are mostly talking very, very cleverly today. So uninterrupted, of course, I'm also referring to the law of confiscation of property that has been illegally acquired, so ingenuity is one common place. And that's why we need to keep an eye on and keep making laws. If necessary, and if new laws need to be passed. Perhaps that practice will show, too, unfortunately. Certainly, the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia is one of the most employed bodies, one of the most laboured, unfortunately, institutions in the Republic of Croatia have further strengthened it by consensus here in terms of additional independence in 2010 and there is a lot of work to be done on the state's attorney's office, and that is why I suggest that we should not always be so critical as to try to see what has been done in recent years and what is done today. It is my opinion that since we are following an uninterrupted case after the case, which shows the incredible haughtiness of those who play the laws, but are playing all of us and laughing in the face of the rule of law, it is actually just a small tip of the iceberg and therefore should be supported by the work of the state's attorney in every way, the political framework, the political will, the debates on the number of anti-corruption and crime. I don't think it's just enough to say that we're against it and that's against it, but that we have to discuss it in particular in the Croatian Parliament, the debates are not so common. There's been a lot of words here about pots, I think it's pretty cruel to talk about some pot that can be in, anyone ends up. But speaking of the pot and pulling a parallel with the DORH, or with the chief state attorney, it is still necessary to say when such in symbolic terms, the political pot is spoken of, then the fact remains that, as we have decided in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the main state lawyer is elected by the Croatian Parliament, so always by a political decision, by a political majority, that is, today and that will be so until we decide otherwise. That's why I need it as soon as possible and that's my question in this debate, I mean it's a question to me, to anyone, especially to anyone, but to all of you, when we're going to discuss the report on the work of the attorney general, or the attorney general. As I recall, the relative was filed in August, again at the bottom of the agenda. We will wrap up the session relatively quickly, so practically within a few days of December, and it is obvious that this report will be discussed next year and we all know that next year we must discuss here and the position of the person who will be working in the next term. Therefore, it would not be a good idea to put this report next year into any text of reflection on the fact that, in fact, through this process, there is an additional consideration of anything that is important in the changes, or in the remainder of this important institution. So it wouldn't be good if it fell into the privatisation sphere. What we certainly support is the establishment or founding of the property benefit research department through bankruptcy. So this is also the alignment with the CAP, it is good, of course, to ask the question of whether the system that is in the state's attorney's office today is enough or whether it will have to be extended or further employed, whether we have the means provided for it because we think that a number of experts should work in such department, who will certainly be strengthened and educated to often move in these complex processes that really need expertise and knowledge. This system of confiscation of property that has been acquired illegally or by criminal acts, I agree, should be strengthened, further amended by law if it is necessary because nothing so much and this practice has shown, nothing so much affects the one who has stolen and cheated but when his property is taken away and when he is symbolically hit in his pocket now, it is not a pocket, of course, it is houses, villas, boats, cars, accounts here, there, etc. So, that picture of someone hitting on their pocket is, as you can see, quite a bit tinkered about what we're witnessing. So this system needs to be further strengthened. Here is the novelty and this is related to the possibility that the government will give its opinion, so that the state's attorney's office will report to the government in cases that are determined for the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, I support this, but further review should be made of whether this can be interpreted in any way as any reference to the independence of the state's attorney. As it is now proposed here, I think no, but that provision should be kept on the watch continuously because, as I understand it, the Government can, of course, give its opinion in some other cases, but it is optional for the state's attorney, and it is also the main message, so the government but certainly because I think that some cases are still being witnessed today and that the government must be informed but cannot and must not, through these amendments, in any way affect any course in the state's attorney's office. So, in conclusion, this is one package of measures that will improve the system but ultimately we're going back to what we were at the beginning, good laws, but we definitely need to see what kind of court practice will ultimately be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60456	Thank you. It's the replicas. The first one was answered by counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60457	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. It's hard not to agree with anything you said. But I especially want to emphasise what you are giving support to institutions that are doing such a delicate and difficult and so hard job. Of course, the biggest problem with this job is that no one is still satisfied with such work and the weight of the process, or the speed they want to work for and can do it is exactly trust. It seems to me like a vicious circle and it's a good thing you've given such an emphasis on supporting these institutions. Because supporting these institutions is a fight against corruption. And fighting, a stronger fight to fight any crime. However, it is also important that you mention everything that is being exposed and that the property that is being taken away and which is visible is only one drop, one drop in the sea. And that's true. And that's why it seems to me, Mr. Minister, here's what I'm saying to you, I want Mr. Secretary to hear and Mr. Secretary to deal with even more offshore companies because a bunch of Croatian money that's been obtained in a criminal way, any privatisation, arms trafficking, drugs and all the evil that's been going on here is in a legal offshore company. This is being warned by EUROPOL investigators, our authorities have also been informed, and I can say that what has been announced by Assistant Minister of Finance Mr. Shegon that some of them I don't know, I think two and a half billion kuna saved from such a failure in offshore companies. And it's something that we at European level, fight against tax... The fight against offshore companies is a struggle for the justice of society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As tax burdens are transferred to citizens, so are criminals. Because who serves offshore companies? Most tax evasions and just the ones who illegally earned the money [[Intruder: Time.]] And registration is very simple online and costs only 200,300 euros. [[Thank you. Thank you very much. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60458	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60459	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Of course, the job of the state's attorney's office, or the whole system, is certainly what I'm talking about and the police are talking about, but now it's not about the subject, but everything is about each other and it's about each other. It's a thankless and hard job. And the fact that in this debate too often stood out or pointed out that many are dissatisfied, I think it's a good sign. That it is a good sign, that we would like it both faster and even better, that it is a good sign and that I ultimately understand it as a strong political will and political support in the work of these institutions. The most important thing, of course, is to be completely independent, to be deprived of any political or any other pressure. And how difficult it is to show the fact that there was something we know about that there were obstructions in the institutions as well. Let us remember some police investigators, who, by all accounts, held some things in drawers or threw them out of drawers, etc. So it's really deforestation of a big forest. And without real real support from a political framework without a fig in its pocket, that system will not be successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60460	Second replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60461	Dear colleague Kosor, I'm in part just agreeing with you. You said the state's attorney's office is one of the most employed bodies, so maybe we shouldn't give him so much criticism or criticism at all. I don't think so, though. The D.A.'s got his hands full because it didn't work when it was supposed to work. The state's attorney's office was supposed to react on time. With its inaction on time, the state's attorney's office has encouraged corruption, covered up corruption, and now it has its hands full. And what's interesting is they're the same people, they're the same people. And now we justify the poor people have a lot of work to do. They were waiting for a political moment. But you were talking about the pot. I didn't make up the pot. The pot was invented by the president of the state. But it's true. His line is completely accurate. I must now give you a confession there, yes, the processes began a few years ago which allowed for a little detour of this huge corruption in Croatia. We should not reward those people who, by inaction, created an atmosphere with cowardice to steal in Croatia, to pay for corruption in Croatia. And all it does now is let people do it. Let it go, the institutions need to work. But in these institutions, at the head of these institutions, there should be people who are willing to work at all times and who are willing to end up in a pot and fight for justice regardless of the price. If we don't, then they're political calculators.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60462	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60463	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, I am pleased that you are partially satisfied with my debate. That's a lot, that's a lot, and I'm seeing it as actually supportive. I didn't mention you specifically when I was talking about the pot, namely, I didn't mention anyone special. Otherwise, it's like a picture that's hardly acceptable to me because whoever ends up in a boiling pot like he drank or a chicken ends up, then he ends up whether or not it is. And I don't like it personally as a picture because I don't think anyone should be beaten. But yes, and I didn't praise anything, I wasn't defending anyone. I just said that we must continuously strengthen this political real support to institutions that are doing a job that is absolutely ungrateful. Because whatever you do, we will always be dissatisfied, always being someone who rightly indicates that something that has reported has not yet come in line or that everything has not happened as expected. But I think it's good because the process is open and it's good that we're discussing it here without delay. I think that's important, so no one's calculating here, but we're talking openly about problems because it's really one big one... here's the latest cases showing one incredible insolence and insolence, and there's no other way to qualify.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60464	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected counterpart, Nada Turina-Đuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60465	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here today, everyone is slowly looking back, in fact, at the end of the day, we still have one law on the basic package to in some way support or praise the ministry's activities and how the whole story is directed in our judiciary. I remember about a year ago, we had about the same package of laws, and we all got very commendable here about that package of laws. I think today that these laws are good because I remember some of our citizens watching these discussions, so they said what you, in the Assembly, praise us, praise the judiciary, and there is so much that it means in that very everyday life of both our citizens and our businessmen who are already over the head of the trial and the exorcism of justice in our courts, but of course we must not give up. I would agree here in one part of the debate with Mrs. Kosor, we must support these changes, we must insist on their application, we must support the institutions in charge of the application of these laws, so in this case it is specifically about the State's Attorney's office, and the whole system of the judiciary. I really hope that we will have a very soon chance to see that report about which it was a little disputed in the law when we made a decision that the Supreme Court would file a report on the situation in the judiciary. And so is this report that we've already received, but we haven't discussed it yet, and that's a report from the attorney general, which, of course, would be good to come in this year before us. As far as this law is concerned, of course, it is very important that this law be brought into line with the hereafter finally discussed to the CAP, and here are a few highlights in that important part that seems to us to be an obligation to set up special departments for conducting property reconnaissances. As a result, it is prescribed that for the area of one or more of the county’s state’s attorneys’ offices, an asset benefit research department will be established through criminal activity and the scope of the business and structure of those departments. The amendments continue to prescribe that the reconnaissances are secret, but until a moment of course, the decision to conduct an investigation or to submit a notice that research is carried out which we consider to be the same step. An article is amended to prescribe strict works for which the deputy attorney of the state is responsible. We feel good means that it narrows down the possibility of free interpretations, making decisions when it suits whom it suits. Unfortunately, we were witnessing that it was coming down to this context, so there was the possibility that some things would be decided to run at certain times that were appropriate to certain political sponsors or some other sponsors who were directly interested in these processes. We hope that narrowing down this space, or calling for the responsibility of the participants of this process, will, above all, mean reducing this space through the State's Attorney's Office and increasing their responsibility and, of course, efficiency. We must believe that this will be the case and it is good that there are strict measures for this, namely that there are concrete sanctions for it. The case-law and decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia have identified significant shortcomings in the provisions of the CAP which determine the deadlines and procedural consequences of their overcoming for the procedural stages and actions in the previous procedure. Therefore, the Constitutional Court imposed on the legislator the obligation to prescribe a time limit for resolving criminal charges in cases where no investigation is carried out and the obligation to regulate within the framework of the State's Attorney's Office... a remedy against the delay in proceedings and other irregularities in the work of the State's lawyers leading to the ineffectiveness of the previous proceedings. Therefore, it is prescribed that the actions of the Deputy State Attorney should be carried out where, unwarrantedly, within the legal time limits or within the time limits laid down by the State's attorney or judge of investigation, no action is taken in the proceedings. Then I remembered that when we discussed one of the previous state's attorney's reports that the state's attorney was in some way distracting that there were problems in the field itself of the State's Attorney's Office, it means that there may not be quite a quality mechanism in which his closest associates make them do their job effectively and responsibly. Now here is a provision which we hope will help, not only to the state's attorney, but to the entire institution to function better. The amendments and additions of several provisions of this law have also led to changes in the way in which, according to amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, the file of the case is placed in the management of the CAP, the concept of research as a mark of the procedural stage to be carried out prior to the prosecution of criminal offences for which a fine or sentence of up to 5 years is prescribed and the change in the scope of the suspect and the defendant. That is, it is prescribed that a state lawyer is required to report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on matters which are determined for the property interests of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of protecting the property of the Republic of Croatia. This allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give opinions on how to act after a report on civil administrative matters has been received. The competent State Attorney's Office may act contrary to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but it is also required to inform the Government of the same, stating the reasons for a particular decision which we consider to be good. We also consider all the amendments to the provisions provided for by this law necessary because they need to be changed mostly for the reason that we will decide to amend the Criminal Procedure Act. The Croatian People's Party will support a proposal to amend and supplement this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60466	Thank you. We have a replica of Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60467	Thank you, Vice-President, distinguished representatives of Turina Đuric. You said the state's attorney couldn't influence what the deputy state's attorneys would do, that his actions were difficult. So I think that we created this legal framework by amending the Constitution in 2010 when we gave special importance and independence to the State Attorney's Council. The State Attorney's Board of Attorneys, which is involved in the work, elects deputy state attorneys but also implements strict procedures, and we were also personally a member of that council when we had those who missed out on their actions and duties in accordance with laws and obligations, so they were punished with six salaries or I don't know what penalties we had to do now, so we created a legally sound framework. So he doesn't have any mechanisms, but he has them, and there's a judicial academy we can't forget, State School for Judicial Officials. Therefore, all these challenges, especially in the context of Croatia's entry into the EU, Chapter 23, etc. are a solid framework and we were created legal mechanisms and it is good that this year the funds for the Ministry of Justice were increased in that department which was missing last year. It's a good thing it would lead to success so that the chief state attorney has mechanisms, but it's just a question... These mechanisms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I would remind you of one of our draft laws that is in the parliamentary procedure, which is that no person should be more than twice the head of state's attorney not by entering the name and name of the current one, but by some future time in order to remove impartiality in the conduct of any procedure. I'm saying, there's nothing personal here but if we're going to work on a system that's impartial and the State's Attorney General and the Chief Director of Security Intelligence, all of that system needs to be such that it has the most democratic standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60468	The replica matches Nada Turin-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60469	Yeah, you're right. You're right. You're right. However, in the context in which I wanted to highlight this, it is precisely that it means all the legal regulations concerning the functioning of the State's attorney's office, as well as the judiciary in general which lay down provisions in the direction that empowering these systems to narrow down opportunities. Of course, I think it's very utopian to think in a way that we can make laws that will completely eliminate certain possibilities, possible manipulations, that I don't say the inaction and irresponsibility of individuals because no one has ever succeeded. But I wanted to stress in the debate that such proposals are narrowed down and the possibilities for manipulation that it is good and that this is how we empower them and that this is how we should support them in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60470	We still have to hear the positions of the HDSSB club. They will be carried out by Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The club if you wanted to hear what the HDSSB Club has to say about this bill has two news. One's good, one's bad. It's a good thing we're going to accept this bill, and now we're going to do a little bit about the bad one. So, Jeffrey Kuhner journalist Waschington Post has long written about our Croatian society. He wrote so that he said that Croatian political kleptocrats alienated, removed or stole a billion US dollars in that value clearly in kunas. That was in 2010 when he wrote about it. That's when I said it here in the Croatian Parliament, so the current prime minister told me he wasn't a credible journalist. Now that I see these investigations starting with here's the most powerful Remorker and the others might say that maybe that amount and the little one I was talking about, even though maybe Jeffrey Kuchner's journalist Waschington Post and the Waschington Times isn't credible. But what the DORH does is very credible. I'm sorry only that the incentive in the Remorker affair came from the outside and was not launched from within Croatia as much as I have notices. So, Austrian and Czech investigators reported the DORH on what was going on in this Remorker affair, so in connection with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and all the activities carried out in connection with the transfer of money offshore companies, etc., the Virgin Islands, Cape Verde. And Cyprus is also an island so we can say that even though it is a unique island, not groups of islands so that the Balkan and Croatian political kleptocrats are united in their work, in their shop, are united in doing so over offshore companies, so this unfortunately and Croatian kleptocrats, have been removed and along with the protectionist machinery according to financial and other sectors say up to 80 billion kuna for the past 10 years. 80 billion kuna, if it were true, and if half of it were correct for the RH budget, it would mean we don't have a deficit, at all, we would have a budget surplus. Then it would be a real rebalance, not a imbalance as I call it every time we go to a rebalancing debate on the Republic of Croatia's budget. Why am I saying that on this subject? Well, because we'd like the DORH to do his job consistently. That there aren't any black drawers and cases stored or as someone here has already said shifts to municipal. Well, every decision to initiate the procedure came from above. The municipal and county attorney orders the Attorney General to initiate the procedure or not to initiate it, or to hold it in a drawer to some occasion. It's perfectly clear, it's clear to everyone here as day. If the DORH had completely, I say completely, could do its job then there would actually be an economic-economic lustration (cleaning), then we would know exactly who was involved in this Croatian political kleptocrat, which is, a trail of money is known and also about offshore companies and everyone else. You see how easy it is to trace, every day we discover new Octopus legs in Remorker. Employees who worked in, say, where did they work? Both HEP and one party, employees who worked and didn't come to work at the HGK and received salaries, etc. There's a lot of them, let's just let the DORH do his job. Let's back him up. But I must say that the explanation of the minister will ask for those items that are not in the criminal case, so where the DORH gives its opinion on property-legal relations of interest to the Republic of Croatia for the opinion and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We are even in doubt, and we may even suspect that this is in connection with the Strategic Investments Act, which was voted in this House in order to initiate an investment process, and the DORH is very quick to resolve matters in collaboration with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It would be good if, in these property-legal matters in which the DORH had to give its opinion and at its disposal on state agricultural land that it had worked so quickly, it was prescribed for a month in Article 87 to give an opinion within a month and to refer the opinion to interested persons within 15 days. It would be very good if so, when many municipalities, which had state agricultural land, had had, were given to discuss the tender, etc., received the opinion of the DORH within that time limit. Unfortunately, they didn't. All this says that to the state's attorney's office I'd say I may not have to say help, but give support but also for fast, objective and efficient work. I speak also objectively because there are both unobstructed and reported and malicious people and badness etc. In any case, Croatian society is terribly divided. It has seen a change in these 20 years that 0.5% of people are rich, and I would say the middle layer is almost gone and 99% relatively or absolutely poor. In such a division created by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the political elites ruled by the Republic of Croatia, without exception to any government so as not to be misunderstood, we are led to the fact that citizens are really watching and watching with great attention and action of the DORH but with great attention being revealed in the bunkers of individuals in underground shelters not to say in rooms or castles, resorts, winter resorts, yachts. How many luxury watches they have, pictures, incunabula, even incunabula, were they the subject of kleptocrat. So the DORH has a very sensitive role and a very significant role, if I say it wants to work objectively and efficiently. It should not be allowed nor should Olaf be left to the European instance, so that it informs him that a crime has been committed in the HGK or in the Croatian roads, etc. So they all have it and they know it, and besides, there are technical and other equipment that makes it very easy to determine, videos and I don't know what conversations and arrangements, cameras, ask you God what kind of technique doesn't exist listening, etc. a lot to be determined by. In the hope and faith that we will finally come to this objective efficiency or efficiency whatever anyone wants to say to the DORH we will support this legislative proposal precisely because of this. We just don't want any more... or any other journalist to inform the Croatian public again and about the kleptocracy in the former but also in the current governments of the Republic of Croatia and the way someone is affected or protected in order to share the money together. I asked the Prime Minister if he knew who gave the importer 0% of the customs rate and to whom and how much the import quota of pig meat for the Republic of Croatia is. The answer was that he knew who meat importers were at zero customs rates but that it was a secret how much they imported meat, business secret, look at the business secret. So three of them got huge sizes that could be introduced at zero, and they got 20 times 5, 10 tons. Why would it be a business secret? Are we here to tell secrets to keep? It's known to be pure profit, bargaining, that's it. Whoever got the shot and who got the shot and how much money it's made in these two years, let's just say, I'm not gonna save this government either, so HDZ doesn't think I'm just calling them that. But there's more, but we'll do it another time, we're running out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60472	Thank you. We have a single replica reported, Ante Kulusic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60473	Comrade Grubisic, you say the citizens are carefully watching the DORH activities and I agree that this is normal. However, I think the citizens are also convinced that there is probably a selective approach. I'm sure we're all convinced of that. And you said that it might be good for someone, so here's an example. There has been so much alarm now about 40 million kuna for the referendum, the same one that has now raised the alert for 40 million kuna for the referendum, last year, when elections for the European Parliament were last year, when there was a difference in a month whether there would be elections in 4 or 5 months, they did not mind 70 million kuna that would be cast. However, I cannot believe what I saw in the 2013 and 2014 budget that Croatian insurance consultants in 2013 receive 29 million kuna and 500 thousand kuna in 2014 and another 24 million kuna and 500 thousand kuna in 2014 which is a total of 53 million kuna advisers for the sale of Croatian insurance, and the total value of a billion kuna for a company worth it all say in Croatia today is five billion kuna. Well, then whether someone is comfortable or not, and most birds on the branch know who should buy Croatia's insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60474	Thank you. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60475	Sometimes my colleague Kulusic was a nickname, some say Mr. 10%, right, here when it comes to Croatia's insurance, that's 5%, right? 51 million out of a billion is 5%, right? So there is here too, only in another way they did it. A consultant for the sale of Croatia's insurance, so please be nice, so where does he have it? And you can see that this morning the news reports that a French adviser for the monetization of Croatian highways has been evicted because the minister was not satisfied with his work. So if the minister took an advisor, which makes him if, in order for this one to know better, it means for the better minister of counsel, so that he took him and paid 70 million kuna to chase him. Therefore, in more perfided and perfided ways it is done. I said that I support what you've emphasized, objective and effective work of the DORH, so I didn't say objectively on some come-on fiction, is it? It's objective and effective work of the DORH.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60476	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorney's Office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 532. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that, with 92 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please explain to the proposing representative the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ms Sandra Artuković Kunst Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60478	Thank you very much. The government is proposing an amendment to Article 37 in a way that the words "are" can be replaced in the first sentence. It was originally proposed that the competent national authorities should obtain the opinion of the State lawyer before the conclusion of a legal transaction on acquisition or alienation of property. We also believe that, following the revision of this proposal, a commitment to a request for an opinion would not be a good solution but should be left to the state authorities themselves, if they consider it necessary to request the public lawyer's opinion on the legal validity of the legal work on the acquisition or alienation of the property and then to obtain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60479	Thank you for your explanation. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting for amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The amendment was accepted by 77 votes to 15 against and 3 abstentions. The amendments were also submitted by the Legislative Committee. Deputy, please note Amendment 1 to Articles 7 and 48.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60480	The government accepts the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60481	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 to Article 43
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60482	The government also accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60483	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Deputy. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. To pass the law, most of the votes of all MPs are 76 votes. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The law was passed with 81 votes for and 15 abstentions. . We move to the next item of the agenda, that is - the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.533 Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the proposal? Yes, Justice Minister Orsat Milenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60485	Thank you very much. So this is another law in the package that we're bringing with the change of the CAP. The majority of the law is intended to comply with the final text of the Criminal Procedure Act. What I would point out here and what's important again is the real estate statements because we're dragging through what we're talking about all the time, so here, especially with USKOK's works, we're stressing the possibility and duty of carrying out real estate copies, the organisational structure of who, and how we're going to do it so that we're certainly going to contribute to a better way of detecting and confiscating illegally acquired assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60486	I thank Minister Milenić. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I open the debate, on behalf of the SDP Club, wesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić will speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Office for the Prevention of Corruption of Organized Crime is organised with the aim of combating corruption and organised crime more effectively and efficiently. Since the founding of 2001, USKOK has received growing powers and these changes and additions are heading in this direction. As we pointed out on many occasions our permanent commitment to an effective fight against corruption, as the SDP Club pointed out in its debate by supporting and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure, supporting amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorney's Office. For the same reasons, the SDP Club will also support these amendments and additions to the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. Because once again, we point out that we are in favour of a spotless and effective confiscation of property acquired by a criminal act. And a very important newspaper of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the CAP and these are property reconnaissances resulted in the need for these amendments and the additions that are ahead of us. The problem of confiscation of property benefits achieved by criminal activities is at the heart of the public interest, as we have already pointed out, which is quite understandable, organised economic crime that often takes on both international dimensions and characterizes precisely the acquisition of the property benefit of significant proportions which, of course, can seriously damage the functioning of each country's economic system. And as we have previously stressed, we support every effort to establish adequate mechanisms, mechanisms that will enable effective identification and confiscation insurance as well as the removal of illegally acquired property benefits. There is no effective fight against crime and corruption. We reiterate that unless effective confiscation mechanisms are established, we shall benefit from the criminal offence provided. The State Attorney's Office will have these changes and additions to the establishment unit, the property benefit research department obtained by criminal acts and through that department immediately undertakes and imposes reconnaissances to determine the value and benefits and to determine where that acquired property is located. The department will also be able to participate in the work of the Ministry of Finance and Police Officers under the supervision of the State's Attorney's Office, participate in the reconnaissances, act on the order of the State's Attorney's Office and be responsible for the work. Special departments for carrying out property reconnaissances to determine the value of the property benefit achieved by criminal activity, departments that will sublime specific knowledge both from the area of law and from the area of finance and business using new technologies. Furthermore, it is also coordinated in the context of the initiation of a criminal proceedings, and since the criminal proceedings begin with the power of a solution to carry out an investigation into the criminal offences for which it is being investigated, it is all due to a mandatory investigation into the crimes in the jurisdiction of the USKOK. And for all the above mentioned SDP club will support these changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60488	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB, a respected counterpart, Drazen Djurovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60489	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. These amendments and additions to the USKOK Act are being added to these previous several amendments from the CAP to this. To immediately recapitulate at the beginning, so as well as these previous amendments to the law and these amendments to the USKOK Act, our club will support it. Actually, because they're on the trail, I'm telling you these previous amendments to the law. What's going on with these amendments, the amendments to the law have a few things that aren't that big, but we think that two are actually the most important thing about these amendments to the USKOK Act. The first thing is to delete the provisions in Article 43 so far. The USKOK Act is that, if it is not in the interest of the disclosure and prosecution of other members of the criminal organisation, it is in the interest of the Board of Directors to examine a person who is legally convicted as a member of a criminal association as a witness. Of course that was the case, so this meant that, in general, the specific question was how it was found in the current law, the USKOK Law, and it meant specifically that someone who has so far been convicted as a member of a criminal organisation, a participatory council, would no longer allow a state attorney to question him again as a witness except in a certain context of charges against other members of that same criminal organisation. The very meaning of that provision at all is indeed I am not a lawyer but it is completely incomprehensible to me that it was the meaning of this provision. And I think it's perfectly logical that this provision is actually abolished as it is now being abolished by this proposal to amend the law and to allow the state's attorneyship to actually question these same people in the witness statute even though not only in the context of charges against other members of that criminal organisation but in any other context. I mean, I mean, really, when a man reads it, he wonders what this provision that lived in that USKOK Law had been in for years and how it had not been recognized by the Proposer before and what it was like. Well, that's how it works. So that provision is really okay. The second thing that's important, so what actually makes the point of these amendments to the USKOK Act is that it forms within the USKOK's asset-exploitation department acquired by a criminal act. As a separate department which, given the specificity of the property relationship through various offences requires additional professional skills, skills, knowledge and the like, and will be particularly specialised within that department by certain people who will deal with the area, is further consulted with people from the Ministry of Finance, the Police and the like, who are engaged in the same area. It is also a good and useful one because we see actually that in those processes that are under way very difficult to prove by now or almost impossible in a valid way that someone has taken something, and then turned it over the entire chain of various companies into a particular house on the sea or into some share owned by an company located on his aunt. And really setting up a department like this is good. What is confusing to me personally and I have actually said in the previous points is that when there was a debate on the budget that USKOK was one of the few budget users that is reducing funds in this budget. Therefore, funds are increasing to the State's Attorney's Office, funds are increasing to courts, funds are increasing to numerous ministries, and USKOK, which has an extremely small budget of only 20 million kuna anyway, and is expected to be the main leverage of the most organised crime actors, the political corruption that this country has destroyed, is being reduced by 3.3% in its 2014 budget proposal for the Minister's budget. And it requires the establishment of a new department, specialization of new people and, therefore, focusing on some of the additional jobs that apparently showed time for this USKOK to be determined, and it is really small funds. And instead of increasing their budget from 20 to 30 million kuna, and that's not a lot for the budget, and for USKOK is 50% higher, in this budget there's 3.3% and 700,000 kuna, respectively, their budget decreases in 2014 compared to 2013. And the department will be formed, the experts will specialize, the segment will be strengthened, it will be strengthened with less money that this USKOK has little to do with its activity. I didn't want to give the amendment yesterday on behalf of the club because it seemed to me, I don't think it would make much sense, but I'm sure you can handle it relatively simply and strengthen that BOOK. So give them 10 million kunas, 50% higher, give them another 50 people more if you're already adding them activity. The institution, the institution, could be one of the best budget chargers of the state budget by returning everything from this country, from this society stolen in previous years. So let's do this, and let's not leave that institution in a situation of too many employees, relatively low salaries, very low material resources, and then not go, it's hard, and still keep adding to the jobs that this USKOK needs to do. And when it comes to researching the property benefit obtained by criminal acts, therefore, it is about us defined in the Penal Code in Articles 77 and 78 which have been formulated approximately that if there is a suspicion, if the perpetrator of a criminal offence in the jurisdiction of the USKOK then he is going towards this property to determine whether he has acquired it legally or illegally both among members of his family and the like. But what has actually come to us and what has been coming to us for years is vox popula, which is, of course, not to be entangled in Inspector Vink's trap, but that's what people are asking us for and asking us because we all had an opinion about Mr. Vidosevic before the Remorker affair was established and we all saw that this man had more immeasurably than he could have earned in any way and that we didn't accidentally get involved in the money trail, we would have all seen that the man had a lot more than he could have ever earned, but none of us would have asked, so how did he get it because we didn't happen to find that someone was carrying money in bags. I mean, on the one hand, of course Inspector Vink's syndrome shouldn't be in this country, but on the other hand, we need to open up the question of whether anyone has any property, how he acquired it, whether he could in any normal, legal way prove that he acquired it and without launching a criminal proceedings, or investigations. So far, we don't have any legislation that would allow anyone to do that. We have certain obligations to the tax administration to ask for someone to prove something, but proven-unproven that nothing happens anymore. So what I'm saying right now is I'm not talking like a lawyer, I'm talking like a citizen, I'm talking like the one other people are asking. We see in this society not one but several hundred people as equative examples, as the tip of an ice santa whose properties, properties, movables, share shares and what is evident that those members of their families have an immeasurably more than they have ever been legally able to earn. And it's our obligation not to stare at it because we know and all the sources are saying that from this country, whether 10, whether 20, whether 30 or 100 billion kunas are from the 1990s to today. It's a question of who's estimating it. We can't close our eyes and be happy when we catch one bag or two bags with 30 million kuna and say that the rule of law works. No, it doesn't work. To this end, in order to satisfy the needs of Croatian citizens for social justice and to feel that this country is functioning. And that is why this part of the USKOK stands, however, there is certainly room for some additional mechanisms to actually set up a legal framework where there is indeed an unequivocally high difference between the possible income of an individual and the fact of the property that he has and without pre-opening the criminal procedure, to find mechanisms to actually get into that situation and to ask himself precisely, so sir, where did that come from to you? If you can in any way prove ok. And three times less that you've earned compared to what you've got. But if you really can't prove it in any way, then. And that's what Croatian citizens are asking of us. We don't need to close our eyes before that, as we do in this debate. In these previous discussions, we do not need to pretend and be very nice and talk about how our judiciary works here. The perception of Croatian citizens is not so. I'm a Croatian citizen. So, I am not an employee of the judiciary, and the perception of Croatian citizens that this system is not working well, that this system does not harm justice in this country and that we are responsible for Croatian citizens, we as representatives of the Croatian people that we are talking about and that we ask you as a resolute minister that this system works better in the first order of business faster, fairer, more open to Croatian citizens and that they are, that they are sanctioned by that robbery and that sense of fraud and humiliation which Croatian citizens have been pulling from the time of the 1990s, not through some declarative commitment, but through concrete measures and procedures where the results will really be visible. And as for these amendments and the addition of the law, once again, like those of the previous HDSSB club, it's for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60490	We have a reported replica of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60491	Dear counterpart Djurovic, you said we should not succumb to Inspector Vink's syndrome, but that we should ask questions. Four and a half years ago, four and a half years before the 2009 presidential elections, Mr. Milan Ivkosic wrote a text in Vecernji list, a large text listing some of the property of Nadan Vidosevic. And then, I think they were even in the title of Nada's court. Where did Hope Court come from? Journalists, not only Mr. Milan Ivkosic in Vecernji list, but also many other journalists, have asked the state's attorney's office to ask where one man who has never been legally involved in a business has an enormous amount of property. And what did we get? We got a reaction, so I said when it started, when the procedure started. Ten years after he shows up in the paper, possibly if that man bothers someone, if he starts to be a political dead man or smells like a political dead man, or if someone wants to move him, since it bothers another interested group. And, of course, I say as angry as we are sometimes at the media, as much as the media is reporting to us parliamentary deputies as they report, that there is no media, that there is no pressure from the media that again instructs certain stakeholders would not have nine dozen of these happening today that is happening around corruption. So it wouldn't reveal itself. Certainly, therefore, when I spoke earlier, we should not protect those people who did not respond in time. Four years ago it was known that Mr. Nadan Vidosevic, perhaps he would have done much less damage if then the state's attorney had responded.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60492	The replica matches Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60493	Yeah, well, that's what I was saying, but there's one thing. So I really don't belong to those whose favorite is the attorney general but he didn't have legal options. So he has a legal option. She acquired herself at the moment when a trail of some money allowed him to block the property and move on... So we don't have some kind of specific legislation that if there was a reasonable doubt that someone had a lot more than they could really earn, would allow the State's attorney or create a place to start a case against someone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is this about this or any other state attorney? That's what we don't have. So that's what I was talking about. We should actually see this in which ways and the legislation simply opens up that space to both the state attorney and the USKOK that they can actually open certain procedures not when there is a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence but in this area of enormous disproportionateness, not that someone has the possibilities of his income which can be determined in cooperation with the IRS regardless of whether there is no reasonable doubt at that time on any criminal offence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60494	We're continuing the club debate. The positions of Jadranka Kosor and HGS will be presented by a respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. We'll support these changes. This is another brick in building the consolidation of the rule of law, the protection of the rule of law, that is, the fight against crime and the fight against corruption. My opinion is otherwise that the judicial system is legitimately also debated in this debate, that the justice system in Croatia is good, that it works. Of course, we should always strive for better, more efficient, faster, but that the judicial system is not good that it does not work Croatia would not close Chapter 23 and today we would not be a member of the EU. And that's the same truth, and sometimes I think that we need to show more respect for what we've all done together and what we are because otherwise it's very, very important that we can work on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. I also personally believe that the debate in the assembly on individual cases, and then the persons being investigated or tried, means cases which are cases which have not been completed and the indictments have not been brought up, but also cases which are being tried in courts and in those where first-degree judgments have been issued, but are not finally required to be discussed here in detail because this is not a courtroom, this is a assembly. So we create a legal framework and let the courts judge. Because I repeat that important also constitutional value that is not particularly popular sometimes that everyone is innocent until a judicial verdict proves it. So we certainly support these changes in the course of the reconnaissance, so the reconnaissances that are classified. And it's a safeguarding of the rule of law and it's a legal state until the proceedings are completed so that it stays within the framework of the institution that implements it. Neither the media nor the representatives nor any other public can judge. Because when someone turns out to be innocent in spite of everything, then if that is the case, we must respect it. So that's secret. Giving away secrets is a crime, and we also often forget it. So, full support to that institute. However, Mr. Minister Article 4 says, where Article 15 is amended, in a manner prescribed by a special law, it can report to the public the course of the reconnaissance which is, therefore, the procedure during the reconnaissance, carried out by the office but only when it requires public interest. So now I'm only thinking about this supplement when it comes to public interest. Namely, the public's interest is everything. The public's interest is always true, the public would like to know everything. So every detail, every detail during the reconnaissance, or during the investigation. And I'm afraid that this kind of formulated change will lead to or be inconceivable in that sense how to apply this norm or rather say how to implement it. Maybe we can do it without it, 'cause everybody's gonna call on it. And everyone when published somewhere in the media or anywhere else is something that has to be and which is a secret, and giving it away is a crime, everyone will be called to the public interest and with the right and will be called to this article. Think about it for the rest of the debate, maybe, I'm not going to make the amendment, but maybe that would be important. And certainly also in the USKOK's foundation of the Department for the Research of Property Benefits acquired by criminal acts necessarily. Here's what unfortunately drives us to practice, everyday cases, everyday affairs, everything that's revealed. And in that sense, another thought. So all that's blocked, everything that's temporarily taken away and that's going to be permanently taken away, but let's just concentrate on what's temporarily taken away. So, unfortunately, the state has to spend money on that too, which is not small. And therefore, it needs to be even stronger and more determined in the fight against corruption and the fight against crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60496	Thank you. We have one replica. Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60497	Here, thank you. Well, I agree with you in one part that it's really not nice, and it's really ugly to call people names, and I don't like it either, and sometimes I hate it. It's on one side. On the other hand, when it comes to not commenting on those actions that are ongoing and similar, listen to us citizens pay and we receive wages to simply say and convey what these people think, what these people are telling us, and if we are going to self-censorize to that extent, then to some extent our business will lose meaning. Because, especially in this society and in this country that you're going to agree to or won't agree not only to be burdened with problems, not only to be burdened with internal conflicts, not only to be 5.5 years in recession, not only to feel stolen by citizens, not only to be amongst ourselves on different grounds, but actually to each other in conflict and if we're all going to self-censorship, then I don't know where our work is going to lead. On the other hand, I've said it before, I think the atmosphere that exists here between us is actually unnatural not too subtle, but actually too much in the gloves. In most of the world's parliaments of states that are much stronger and more developed, people speak much more openly and much tighter than we say here. And if we're gonna unburden the debate and the conversation, then we can cancel the plenary sessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60498	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60499	It's absolutely incorrect that I would call for self-censorship or any kind of censorship. As a lawyer, I have the right to say my opinion equally so that this is not a courtroom that we can't detail, so in some cases which, for example, are currently in the investigation, I won't mention it in general, I never mention it, that we don't know of any particulars and that we should then be very careful. However, just like you, I've heard countless times the people who say, I knew, I know, or I knew on this case, and that case, it was stolen, it was taken, it's guilty, it's a thief. My question is, have you ever reported him? In fact, all of us as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, if we have any information about a possible criminal offence, we have a duty to report it. The same should be said more often because if these bumps very often stay in the air and nothing happens then it's actually an empty balloon that's blown out, it's pierced. So anyone who has information, any indication of a criminal offence, any, any one of them, has to report it. There's no telling who's in charge of this place, the KNOCK or the DORH.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60500	We still have to hear the views of the HNS Club and respected counterpart Nada Turin-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60501	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. This topic is always in some way provoking the representation of some of the views that come from the general public and the perception of the general public about the work of the body, such as the state's attorneyship and USKOK, and we all have the same need to pass on this dissatisfaction through a pay phone, through debate when the drafts of the law are attached to one of these topics and we spill often yellow over it because, of course, we have felt sometimes on our skin or with our colleagues or in our family or in their economy that these institutions have not been sufficiently effective enough, and unfortunately, at least for us in politics, unfortunately, often associated with the influence of political elites on these institutions. But what is the fact that this spilling of bile related to the functioning of these institutions has not exactly given me all these years as far as I know it has been debated in the same way for years. What HNS supports through the proposals that, the law that the Ministry of Justice has brought to our benches, is that it is trying in one systematic way to narrow down the space for what creates a bad perception of the work of these institutions. And I wouldn't agree that nothing over the year has tried to do, and it's been an attempt to form an institution that will be more efficient, more efficient, more quality, fairer, and whatever you want to do to enforce the laws and place those people who have sinned about the law in the place where they are. However, of course the deviations of the entire system are noticeable and I think that we are the last ones who, of course, need to talk about all this, but we may be the last ones who can directly accuse anyone because it is we who decide first and foremost the leaders of those institutions. So I wouldn't have hit on the subject of whether someone was under someone's influence, whether they were manipulated by someone, but definitely in some of the reports that we're getting here on the constituency benches, we should talk about how many things have been done and how many things have not been done. So if we do that, then we'll also have a chance to treat the people who are the holders of the duties that govern these systems, we're talking specifically here, for example. on the State's attorney or attorney's office. However, I would go back a little bit, however, to the specificity of this bill which, of course, is one part of this package and where this law is in fact harmonized with the proposal for a criminal procedure law and we welcome the meaning of this reshuffle or mode of operation where certainly one part of USKOK should become more efficient. Especially in this area where property benefits are determined and in the part where I suppose that whole system is not enough quality experts to determine because we here can laminate about who has and what seems to us on the side, because someone writes it in the newspaper and a picture for the newspaper. However, when determining property, it is not just because I think from here I could say that I know certain people who were or are still in politics who are founded to suspect that they have very much and that there is no record of it anywhere, or that you can't do it in the papers either in the form of houses or houses or courtyards or expensive cars, but the whole public is saying that they have a great not only impact but also a great property that is not visible to us. Which means that certainly experts working on these investigations should be first-class experts because it is certainly not easy to trace the property. And there are different ways to hide it, unfortunately, and those who understand it well and know how to do it very well obviously. Because none of us have ever, ever, brought such a person to justice. But it's still conjecture, so it's a very big shift to engage the profession in that sense. Of course, corruption and organised crime have far-reaching consequences for society and that every law, every provision that goes within any law, is a major shift. We, of course, should all be able to support this as representatives and seek maximum respect for it, that is to say, for sanctions, that is to say, to lay down laws requiring sanctions for non-compliance with such laws. The Croatian People's Party will, of course, support the proposal and this law. Of course, with great hope that all these laws will truly live and live. There were some other authorities here, and they had a chance to think about how to narrow down the crime area in this country, so they did it, I'd say more casually than really. Here's all these laws that we're making I think they're going in this direction that in some future we're going to experience that our judiciary and our entire legal system and our state's attorneys are working on standards that, for example, Western European countries that we could look up to and we need to look up to. That is why the Croatian People's Party will support the proposal of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60502	Thank you. The final word of Justice Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60503	Thank you very much. Two things have been discussed more, but two may need to, deserve to comment on something. One of the financial resources or budgets for this year is slightly smaller for USKOK, however, projections are that it is increasing further. However, USKOK is also part of the state's attorney's office, the total funds are increased. And it is certain that when we are doing projections how much we need to implement these laws, they will, within the existing means, have sufficient resources and in no way will they interfere with everything that needs to be implemented under this law. So as far as this is concerned, it's budgetably well-covered. Secondly, as regards public reporting, which has been discussed and of particular interest, it regulates that a special regulation is governed by law in what way. So let's say you have in this previous law in the State's Attorney's Law, it means that when it imposes public interest on the ongoing... inform the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only actions taken or taken without a name, participants in the procedure and in the contents of those actions may be notified. So that's a restriction. We have to leave this legitimate interest to the public, it's one standard that changes and it's hard to define sometimes but it has to exist. You may, for example, have some big accident and the public has an interest in informing what is being done here, without stating the names and contents of exactly the actions that would compromise the process. But of course keep from the public, don't give that information then you're just opening up, creating a field to start collecting information conditionally on black, to do speculation, etc. That is why this provision is so defined and, of course, the standard will have to be built over time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60504	I thank the minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when conditions are made. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 533. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Mrs. Sandra Artuković Kunscht to declare the amendments submitted. Article 14 is amended as follows: Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60506	Thank you very much. The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60507	Thank you. It's getting to the law. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. I reiterate that the adoption of this law also requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, 76, means votes. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. This law was adopted unanimously by 96 votes in favour. We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 531; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? There's no need. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate that no one has applied for. So I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60512	All amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60513	You accept all amendments, therefore they become an integral part of the law. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 86 votes in favour and 16 abstentions have been passed. We're going to extend this morning's work a little bit because now we're going to discuss another legislative proposal, a decision, given that we have a representative of the government here. So we move on to: - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operations of the United Nations; the Proposer of the Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the Second Reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of the Decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Vishnja Tafra Deputy Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60515	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. As the decision of the Croatian Parliament on the deployment of members of the Armed Forces to UN-led peacekeeping operations expires on 31 December of this year before you, there is a proposal for a new Decision to refer up to 32 members of the Armed Forces in 2014 and 2015 in 6 peacekeeping operations: in a peace operation in Lebanon up to 5 members, in Liberia up to 2 members, in South Sudan to 5 members, in India and Pakistan up to 10 members, in the Western Sahara 8 and in Cyprus 2 members. The financial resources for implementing this decision are secured in the state budget for 2014 and 2015, they amount to around 3.6 million kuna per year and I would like to note that the participation of members of the Armed Forces in UN-led peacekeeping operations is extremely important for reasons, just to remind you that we have been participating in these operations since 1999 and that 1785 members of the Armed Forces have participated, 59% of whom we expect you to support the proposal for this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60516	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60517	Thank you, Vice President. Reputed deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is our turn to start by asking ourselves first of all what is global or international security because during the Cold War things were completely clear, global security could only endanger one of the two superpowers, either the United States or the Soviet Union. Since then, very significant changes have been made, namely the progress of which global security has been most affected by the asymmetricity of development in the world and technological transition, and the consequences are inconceivable. They were somewhat, and they are still unpredictable, but they are almost in general affecting the growth of global uncertainty. It took place on 11 September, with fewer and fewer clashes on a classic battlefield where military parties are clashing, more and more in the clashes of involved civilians or paramilitary forces, new weapons with brand-new capabilities of action, nuclear terrorism, biological, chemical and what new information technologies are in the service of arms and weapons. There used to be centres of economic and technological power in the world, and now that power has globalized, it's spread all over the world. With the development, global power brings inequality. Less than 24 hours after the terrorist attacks on the United States, the North Atlantic allies activated Article 5, under which an attack on one member should be considered an attack on all NATO members. Today, almost with certainty, there is a sign of equality between national security priorities and global terrorism. So if it was possible before, some state would take a position so-called. neutrality because it wasn't directly compromised, today it's impossible. Terrorism has entered every country directly or indirectly. One way not to accept Croatia's global neutrality is to send members of the Armed Forces into peace support operations and other UN activities. And so to say, today 21 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are on five UN peacekeeping missions in Lebanon, Liberia, the Western Sahara, India, Pakistan and Cyprus. However, the decision of the Croatian Parliament for those members expires on 31 December of this year, so we have before us a proposal for the next two years, as the deputy formerly said in Lebanon up to 5, in Liberia up to 2, in South Sudan up to 5 members of the Armed Forces, in India and Pakistan up to 10, in the Western Sahara up to 8 and in Cyprus up to 2 members. Peace support operations contribute to strengthening global security not only through the exercise of basic tasks of monitoring and maintaining peace, but also by supporting the fundamental security of society and persons, strengthening security institutions and law enforcement, providing support for political processes, setting up a mechanism for local conflict resolution by supporting the provision of support for ensuring the fundamental needs of the population, above all humanitarian aid, providing support to refugees and exiles and economic revitalisation, restoring the fundamental functions of public institutions and creating anti-corruption programmes. In this light, the SDP club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60518	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60519	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister. We've heard concrete facts here that I wouldn't repeat, and we've heard one exposé that I agree with, but I would say something. I think it is a good thing the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave up one position that appeared somewhere in February of this year, under which the Republic of Croatia has neither the political nor economic or military interest in participating in UN peacekeeping missions. Even an end to missions like this has been considered. In today's proposal, we see that it is not an interruption but an increase, and I am glad if the Parliament, if the debate here in the Croatian Parliament has contributed to the government's abandonment of this attitude and to propose this kind of decision today. I would take the opportunity to point out once again what the importance of the participation of members of the Armed Forces in UN missions is. It is primarily a presence in areas where international policy is very active. Secondly, there is an exchange of experiences with our NATO partners, from the European Union, of course from the UN. It's an opportunity to access privileged information. It is also about gaining field experience for officers and officers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who are very important to them especially in the conduct of management functions. It is also important that in some missions we have had command posts and then it is both correct and interest to continue to participate in these missions especially in those where we have been in Sudan since the beginning of for example and to continue this new mission that refers to southern Sudan after the separation occurred. Some missions such as Cyprus have special importance for European security and defence policy, but also for NATO as two NATO members are involved, so our partners and allies such as Greece and Turkey. We ladies and gentlemen must simply shed light on the fact that, with great respect and pride on members of the Armed Forces who perform important and complex tasks far from their homes in these missions, the Republic of Croatia participates. With all their interests, they're not just interests in a better world that's unquestionable. Interests can also be concrete if we recognize them and discuss them. That is why, in this occasion too, I would like to emphasise the importance of taking a closer look at the political, economic and other interests that are opening up and can open up for Croatia. For example, participation in these missions is positioned by our diplomatic and political representatives at the table where the situation is discussed in these countries and in this particular part of the world. This is important both for multilateral contacts in this particular case in the context of the World Organisation or the United Nations, and for bilateral contacts and not only, not primarily for political but mostly economic reasons. In parts of the world where members of our Armed Forces are the facts of their participation can and must be used more strongly. Our military participation gives Croatia's political legitimacy to also consider lobbying for the interests of the Croatian economy in that part of the world. Of course, the fact of presence, direct insight into the situation of relations in these regions, customs and practice of business, information on development plans and projects there should be made available to our economy. It should be borne in mind that this is most often about areas that have suffered wars, destruction and that are moving towards reconstruction and investment. We may not have the potential to take over some big jobs on our own, but we can join some major players, corporations, multinational companies. In particular, I would like to stress that this does not only apply to these existing missions but also to future missions. The system in this business, ladies and gentlemen, will be achieved only when we are somewhere, when we make a decision to go somewhere, we participate in a mission that shows the interest of the Croatian economy. Given some specific, specific interests of our companies. And that would be, and that's part of the export strategy in every country. Here's a job for our economic diplomacy, but in presenting economic diplomacy, I didn't notice anyone mentioning this. Of course, participation in UN missions gives us legitimacy for stronger participation in UN supply programmes for the needs of peacekeeping missions. I personally agreed with the UN Vice-Secretary for Pensions in 2011 on this issue, and in September 2011, the Director of the Directorate for Procurement who gave a lecture to 70 Croatian companies on how to deal with the UN. Countries participating in missions certainly have the legitimacy to participate in the supply of these missions. From this now opposition position, they can only plead to state institutions to be strongly involved in this segment and exploit all the potentials that these programmes bring and can bring. I can therefore express my satisfaction that I see progress on this plan even when it comes to the Croatian Parliament. I have repeatedly in the debates here initiated the need, though the necessity to approach these issues comprehensively, so that soon three committees will meet to discuss our participation in peace missions, three at a joint session. Of course, it would have been much better if that meeting had preceded this decision today, but I hope that it will soon become a practice not only in the Parliament but also in one synergy with the executive authority and the synergy of the executive authority within itself. We will, of course, support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60520	Thank you very much. Do you want a final? I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision later. My colleagues and colleagues, we'll have a break by 3:00. We're going to start with these mandatory pension funds, voluntary and pension societies, and if we were to end up saying it this much more normally then we'd go back to the amendments and additions to the Free Zones Act and that's how it would end today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60521	Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN peacekeeping support operations. The debate is closed. I am voting on a motion for a decision which also requires a majority of the votes of all MPs. Who's in? Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? Score. The decision was adopted unanimously, with 98 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60522	Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs continue our afternoon work at the plenary session. It is next - Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, first reading, P.Z. No. 526; - Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 527; - Proposal for a Law on Pension Insurance Companies, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 524; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60523	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. When we announced the Pension Insurance Act, we announced that we would come very quickly with three laws that govern the full pension system in the Republic of Croatia. Today there are three laws before you, the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and the Law on Pension Insurance Companies. Before I go to the law itself, I suggest that in my presentation I go through all three laws because they are more or less indivisible than each other, and that in the discussion we can discuss each law individually if that's okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60524	The debate is united and I thank the ministers for the initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60525	Thank you very much. So why did we introduce three pillars of retirement insurance? The reason is very simple that at a time when a system of intergenerational solidarity was established in some way, at the time of one great army leader Bismarck, the system served that soldiers who went to war when they returned home had security and did not think about their retirement and their safety at age. The system was sustainable until the moment when more people worked and fewer were retired. However, when there is an ageing population such as Croatia at the moment is then the system comes into trouble. Because more and more people are enjoying retirement, and less people are working. I note that in the late 1980s and early 1990s in Croatia we had 2 million employees, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and about 500 thousand pensioners, which is 1 to 4 which is extremely good for the pension system. But at this point, we're somewhere almost 1 to 1, so it depends on how many pensioners we have or how many employees we have is about 1 to the 1.19, 1 to the 1.22 depends when you're looking. Therefore, something that rings for the alarm and therefore the proposed pension reform with three pillars with very clear objectives, higher pay and longer working life is also automatically resulting in a higher pension from the second pillar without the need to regulate it into pension formulas. And the longer working life reduces the pressure on first-degree pensions because the higher payments are then due to the longer working life and the shorter retirement pensions due to subsequent retirement. These are the legality of a pension system that sounds so harsh but they are what they are. Therefore, we and the Pension Insurance Act have gone this way to promote longer employment stays and thus to reduce the pressure on the first pension column and to look at all those measures that we have proposed for the Pension Insurance Act itself. The contribution achieved through fund management increases pension. Somewhere there is an informal consensus that fund management is considered successful if the contribution rate is 2 to 3 percentage points above inflation. On the other hand, funds are expected to have a positive impact on the development of the capital market and on domestic investment, and thus on GDP growth. In 1990, and it should be kept in mind that the reform did not begin in 2002, it ended in the first part, it was started in 1990 when the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds was adopted which we now share in two special laws, the Law on Mandatory and the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds. So, this old law has had so many changes, and the Pension Insurance Society Act and pension payments based on individual capitalised savings have had three changes. I note that this third law was adopted in a way that only covered the legal gap until the time when pensions from the second and third pension pillars would start to be paid and that changes were needed and that the system would be safer. What are the reasons for the introduction of three pillars of pension insurance? So the initial plan was that the second pillar will gradually increase to 10%, so up to 9% by 2010. So this has never been done, in a way, the system was preserved in 2004, so neither did it go towards increasing the isolation of the second pension column but not according to what many today advocate to return the second pension column to the state, so to return to the budget because in such a way they fill in the budget gaps. We were also at the beginning of the pension reform in some way those who were between 40 and 50 years of age a little pushed towards the second pension pillar and many of them were not enough or would not be enough in the second pension column to have a decent pension, and we corrected that it was possible to get out of the second pension column and return to the first because pensions were extremely small because the period of capitalised savings. The law supplementing pensions under the Pension Insurance Act introduces a pension allowance of 4-27% but only for pensioners in the first pension column and if we want the pensions of the second pension pillar to be sustainable, then we also have to give it to the people who are in the second pension column. And also the pension formula for people who are at the same time and in the first and second pillars is now extremely unfavourable because it is foreseen that we now single out 10% into the second pension column that has not happened. Therefore, in the Pension Insurance Act, we envisaged a different formula that would reflect the percentage of separation in the second pension column. So according to the current formula for pensioners who receive pensions only from the first pillar is that standard formula while the pension formula is for pensioners from the first and second pillars such that if we do not make changes and we have announced these changes in the Pension Insurance Act there will be only 25-30% of the salary we consider unacceptable and that things need to be changed. When we talk about the costs of the system according to the sources of HANFA, the costs of pension insurance companies, companies that manage the funds, are somewhere around 0.68%, therefore, operating costs relative to average assets, while when we talk about HZMO, although this is not compatible and I do not say that there is now a compatibility of both, so these are completely different insurance systems somewhere around the cost of operating through pension expenditures 1,21%, so I am not the goal of comparing as much as expensive as possible than just seeing what cost ratios are. What's our current status? We have 4 mandatory pension funds, 23 voluntary pension funds of which 6 open pension funds, 17 closed and one pension insurance company. In total, since 2002 until today, when the reform has taken place in full scope, we have a million 692 218 members, that doesn't mean that there are so many insurance companies because some of them have appeared in the second pillar and then come out of it but they still have no payment, some have entered and are currently unemployed, so this is just the number of accounts that we have in mandatory pension funds. When we talk about open voluntary pension funds, we are absolutely not satisfied, in 2013, there were only 201 thousand members, so too little and we think that the third pension column should be improved and thought the way we should think about, given that we are somewhere one to one, one to one is retired, that already when we go to the world and the labour market that already needs to think about retirement and that we should start saving in the third pension column, today when the wages are small it is futuristic to talk about it but the system we do not work for today, the system we work for the future, for the next 10 or 20 years and that it is known that the pension should consist of the first, second and third pension pillars. The number of closed voluntary pension funds is also small, only 23,000 members. What is a characteristic that we have launched the establishment of closed pension funds but we have not promoted them, and in this area certain shifts should be made, and therefore this Law on Voluntary Pension Funds is extremely important. What is the net assets of the funds to date? Somewhere over 57 billion, so a huge amount of money, that's our resources, all of us who are in the second pension fund, so all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Where are these funds invested? Therefore, they are very conservatively invested mainly in the state bonds of the Republic of Croatia, so we did not get what was planned when we started this to invest these funds in our companies, to be the engine and generator of the development of the capital market, the development of the financial market in Croatia, when you look at the Zagreb Stock Exchange, and yet on the other hand, one of the basic engines is the companies that manage pension funds, so pension funds are those that are still on the Zagreb Stock Exchange who are one of the main or larger players. But again when you look at the structure where these funds are invested? These funds are very conservatively invested in the country. What are our net payments? So there's a brief review of the funds that we're paying, as you can see and payments and payments from other funds here this table is just to see that what's supposed to be logical is that people look at what fund they're making a better contribution to and then transfer the funds from one fund to another. I note that the transition from one fund to another is completely free, so only the REGOS has to give notice that he wants from one fund to another. We still haven't developed this awareness that these are the funds that are mine, my own resources, and that we should look at what fund I'm investing in, in what way. And there will be a great role for both REGOS and the Ministry of Labour and all others to return this way of thinking to Croatia. How much net assets, so from 2002 to today, 2.5 billion kuna, so voluntary pension funds are open, so the third pillar is not satisfied 2 billion is too little and obviously that this way of savings is still not what came into life in Croatia and which should be one of the engines of the pension system itself. When we talk about the net assets of closed voluntary pension funds, it is even smaller, somewhere less than 500 million kuna, which again says that we have failed in this area and therefore we believe that with this new law on voluntary pension funds and that part we will promote and allow as much as possible to open pension funds for the third pension column. What is the new legislative framework? Therefore, we are more detailed in the laws on the licensing procedure of the pension society, pension funds, pension insurance company, board members, supervisory board and founder. We are also introducing higher requirements for members of the board of directors and members of the Supervisory Board. And we are establishing an organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility because pension fund management companies are like any investment companies and we believe that the same rules as those other institutions should apply. We also define the organisational requirements precisely as regards the risk management system, internal audit, monitoring compliance with regulations, the actuarial function that is important only for the pension insurance company. We regulate conflicts of interest, measures for continuous business, business separation, award policy, management and maintenance of company business documentation, as well as appropriate management of the information system. We specifically define this law a risk management system that has not been resolved so far for pension fund management companies. Therefore, as regards the policy strategy, procedures and risk management measures and risk measurement techniques with a view to keeping the funds that are in those funds safe and safe. We also prescribe a way of financing society, establishing rules for the implementation of promotional activities, more detailed regulation of the presentation of the results of the company's business and funds, and defining the liabilities and responsibilities of depositaries for pension funds. What changes were we planning? One of the biggest changes in compulsory pension funds is the introduction of three portfolios depending on the profit and risk profile. Portfolio A is the biggest expected contribution with the greatest take the risk. The portfolio is reserved for those who are just entering the labour market, so those who are beginning to save. B is the expected contribution and take the risk according to the existing one, so that is what it is now, one way to invest in government bonds and also in shares of companies. And C, the smallest expected contribution with the slightest takeover risk, so this is investment in government bonds and the characteristic is that all those who will be saving in funds and come to the moment when they are missing 5 years until retirement will then the system will automatically transfer their portfolio to C whether they were A or B. In terms of categorization, therefore it is a new thing that will allow the system to be managed as easily as possible and that we have what we want and that means that the funds are not only invested in the bonds of the state but also to invest in companies. We are also changing the caps on investment as regards domestic shares under the existing law was 11% of the total property, the limit to 10% of the issue, now we are providing 25 to 30% with a maximum of 20% of the editions, with 100% of the volume available, so what we are now seeing is that the pension funds entered the companies but because of these restrictions they could not manage those companies because they were missing, clearly could not have had a higher percentage in the companies themselves. With this we allow pension funds to enter more than 25 plus 1 shares and take responsibility for the management. As for domestic corporate bonds, the limit was 2%, so now we go to 30%. And what is new is the possibility of investing funds in the infrastructure projects of the Republic of Croatia up to 15%. So with these, we expect a larger share of the investment in domestic assets and clearly the creation of new jobs. As far as the investments themselves are concerned, there is also a restriction. The restriction is related to the currency of the pension payment. Therefore, as regards compulsory pension funds, they can only invest in bonds denominated in kuna. Kune that means it's not possible to invest in bonds that are in foreign currency. While voluntary pension funds, we open up the market and there will be a possible investment. It's the choice of one who saves in the third pension column. When we talk about changes, we therefore allow investments above 10% of shares allowed so far, clearly with respect to the prescribed additional organisational requirements. Pension funds are also allowed to participate in infrastructure projects, so all with a view to investing as much as possible in domestic assets. As far as the fee is concerned, we foresee a reduction in the management fees by 2015. It is possible to charge a maximum of 0.45% per year of the total asset reduction for the pension fund's financial liabilities, and for each subsequent year, the fee rate is reduced by 7% compared to the fee rate applied in the previous year. Moreover, since the funds are managed by different companies, the relevant persons of the pension society shall not be entitled to a reward or compensation based on membership in the supervisory board of a company based on ownership. So what happened today, that those who work in the pension fund were then in the 5, 6, 7 boards of directors, for that they were compensated. Now he'll be able to do whatever he wants but no charge. And we introduce the Croatian Parliament's report once a year every pension society, meaning a mandatory pension society submits a report on the work of pension funds it manages. So here in the Parliament we'll have a chance to hear and see how any of the funds operate and how any of the funds work. We also allow society to manage voluntary pension funds, so the company managed by compulsory pension funds will also be able to manage a voluntary pension fund, which has not been possible so far. We transfer to REGOS a lot of obligations, reporting to members at the annual level on personal account assets, on the other hand when we talk about non-classified citizens, so those who do not show a wish in which the fund wants to pay them a second pillar. So far, it's been a relatively large fund, so whoever was the greatest has been given the most of these citizens. So at this point we all go equally, so everyone will get out of these people who haven't decided on a pension fund each fund will get an equal number with the fact that REGOS will have additional efforts to get to each of these people and offer that I decide which pension society. We are also introducing the possibility of exercising the right to retire from the second pillar to the ZOMO, so for those who have achieved an increase in duration, so those who will certainly not be long enough in the second pension column to be eligible for their pension. As regards assets, a member of the compulsory pension fund, after exercising the right to an age or early retirement pension to the PSO, is transferred to a pension insurance company. Here we have also made it possible for those who are over 55 years of age and who are members of the Fund for more than 10 years and who have obtained the right to a disability pension because of their total loss of employment, or family pension, after the death of a member of the Fund, to retire from the first and second pillars if it is more favourable for them, but can achieve a pension from the first pillar, so we are able to treat them more justly. The Law on Voluntary Pension Funds aims to regulate the system, encourage greater inclusion, enable society to establish and manage open-end investment funds with a public offering. That hasn't been possible so far. We also further coordinate with European directives and allow cross-border activities to be carried out, so in other Member States of the European Union and vice versa, so that some other pension insurance companies are likely to come to Croatia. Retirement from voluntary retirement insurance can be achieved with 50 years of life at the earliest. We are also introducing news, so payment can be made through a pension insurance company, but also through a fund, provided that the property is lower than 50,000 kuna, the payment is periodical and lasts at least 5 years, so for all those who have too little accumulation of funds in the second pension column from which we would then get a relatively low pension so if it is less than 50,000 kuna to pay off directly, so not over fashion. There is also a possible partial payment of up to 30% of the amount in the account of a member or more, but clearly up to 10 000 kuna or one-time payment if the member is over 50 years old and there are less than 10 000 kuna in the account, all with the aim of enabling those who have not regularly worked in the system, who did not regularly pay that those funds that are there to be used in the best possible way. Therefore, when we talk about the Pension Insurance Company Act, they are the last link, so they pay out pensions from the second pension pillar, they are also investment companies, as well as everyone else, because those funds that come from the second pension pillar naturally need to be fertilised, that they should be invested further, not only on the account so that we introduce to them everything that the pension insurance company should meet, as well as any other investment company. We are introducing two new programmes, so pensions on the basis of a single payment of persons to a pension insurance company, so someone can also pay a one-time pension rent and a one-time pension all with the aim of making it possible to use the funds as much as possible and to obtain a decent pension, not only from the first and second pension pillars but also this part that is related to the pension, with a single payment. So these are all institutes that can be used, it will be possible to use as opposed to what we haven't used until today. We also define the responsibility of a pension insurance company in the event of weak or negative business results, the introduction of a pay for success. So we also define these things to be clear and restrictive, not to be spent in a non-transparent way. The emphasis is on the principles of investment of assets to cover technical reserves, limit investment and conduct in the event of over-investment. Therefore, this HANFA will play a major role in the control of pension insurance companies because these are the funds from which the pensions of all those who bring the funds into the second pension column should be paid. Also in the Pension Insurance Companies Act, we have detailed the requirements of capital adequateness, we have raised the amount of guarantee capital for a pension insurance company that is now under the current EU rules of 22.8 million kuna. The amount of guarantee and underlying capital shall, of course, be aligned according to the consumer price index of the Member States. All of this we're going to talk about today is that as many people as we can decide on the third pension column. So, the more citizens participate in the third pension pillar, the more industry develops, the more such voluntary funds are created, the more they are closed, because it is another additional benefit for citizens when we talk about pensions and pensions after the end of the working life. These new two institutes that we're introducing into a retirement insurance company are either life-long or temporary, we have five years of billing out the agreed amount. So, pension rent. The amount of the pension shall be determined on the basis of the total amount of the employer’s payment. Exceptionally, in the case of a lifetime rent, a 30% share can be paid once at the request of a worker. Both the worker and the company are contracting rents, the collection of pensions. So there's a two-sided contract. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, the Ministry of Finance, given that this rent, pension and pension are untaxable. The finance ministry will limit the untaxable share of its laws, hence the amount of pension benefits. When I talk about getting a pension, it's a life-long payout for a contracted amount. Unlike rent, it's inherited. The amount of pension collected shall be determined at the level of the difference between old age and early retirement, paid in monthly meals for life, adjusted as well as pensions to the PSO and transferred to the family. So we're here as the Government to point out that this institute that is in Croatia has come to life. Here's to two slides right away. [[/The President's intrusion: The Honorable Minister's time has expired from half an hour. Bring in the end and you will continue.]] So we predicted there were two ways to solve it. One is through a company, it is a bill sent by the Croatian party of pensioners and the other is through a pension insurance company and we believe that the market needs to be opened and that then both companies and workers will decide whether the purchase of pensions will go through a company or will go through the Pension Insurance Act. And for the end when we talk about value, here's the last slide. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Therefore, the impact of the entanglement on the assumption of a monthly deposit in the 400 kuna fund in 40 years of membership will be paid by a total of HRK 192000, with the assumption of a 5% contribution. The total estate in retirement was about 600 thousand kuna, so assuming net yield of 5,370,000 kuna. [[The President's intrusion: there will be opportunities yet.]] So we think that the system is sustainable and that the system needs to be further improved. Thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60526	Thank you very much, Minister. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60527	Thank you very much. Here's the Honorable Minister. I'd like to conclude that the paper is suffering. However, it is evident that the award policy is also defined by the guaranteed contributions related to the funds. But what's visible and what we feel in the field is that the funds are weakly controlled. We're all witnessing that, the banks were well controlled, so 26 banks went bankrupt and had to pay their savings. And when it comes to funds, we won't feel it today, not tomorrow, but when they have to pay just guaranteed contributions or what they've recorded on that paper that I said the paper is suffering, then we'll see what they've invested in and what I feel on the ground is investing in some things in cleaning the balance sheet of banks where certain systems fail and whether they're bonds and some other securities. My basic question is and in some ways a suggestion, much more and more powerful must define the relationship of HANFA to systems and system control which must be very detailed and much stronger and stronger than it is at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60528	Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60529	Your Honor, if you've read the law well, then all three laws inside you can see that the HANFA and the fat are in the system and that we've expanded the powers of the HANFA to the point that the HANFA is also following the part that is related to the bonuses, the people who lead. So, in the event that the offering fell, bonuses, rewards and everything else were lifted, and on the other hand, we predicted that a report on the work of each fund was submitted here in the Assembly once a year. Therefore, it will be the public stands to say what they do and how they do. And on the other hand, we introduce to them a lot of restrictions and reporting and new Risk Management. So, a lot of things that haven't been in those funds by now will be. So much greater control but much greater organization. But on the other hand, we allow management companies to then enter companies and have the right to run. Now with this percentage they had they had no right to manage and enter the fund, and the other manages, you enter the company and the other controls for you. So now we're giving them responsibility and you can come in, you're going to have a majority and you have a responsibility to manage it, it's our money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60530	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues therefore we heard the opening explanation of the proposal of the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, first reading, P.Z. No. 526, Proposals of the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 527 Proposals of the Pension Insurance Companies Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 524. That's how we're going to conduct a united discussion. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present a report on this? There's no interest. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going through the MP clubs on all three bill proposals. The first is the respected Vanja Posavac, a SDP club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60531	I would like to thank the esteemed president, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the beginning, I will say that the SDP club will also support the proposal of the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, on Voluntary and Pension Insurance Companies. Namely, the pension insurance system in the Republic of Croatia is arranged as a three-part pension system, which is made compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity, compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. Mandatory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings are governed by the Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds Act and the Pension Insurance Companies Act and pension payments on the basis of individual capitalised savings and regulations for their application. So far, 4 compulsory pension funds, 23 voluntary pension funds of which 6 open and 17 closed pension funds and one pension insurance company have been established and operated as part of the pension system implemented on the basis of individual capitalised savings. On 30 September, compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings amounted to a million and 685 thousand 689 insurance companies. Following the movements in the pension scheme, the need to separate the two existing systems of individual capitalised savings was, in fact, mandatory and voluntary on two separate laws. In this way, further development and improvement of the individual capitalised savings system will be possible with a view to better future social security of insurance and in light of EU entry. This legislative proposal precisely regulates the conditions for the establishment and termination of the work of pension funds and pension societies for the management of pension funds, their organisational structure, core capital and dispersion of membership property investments in order for the system to be stable and without earthquakes. In addition, a detailed risk management system is prescribed which the pension society must contain, the way in which the company works, audits and reporting on the work of the company. As we have heard, it is mandatory to report pension societies once a year to the Croatian Parliament. They shall be introduced within the existing system of three new categories of pension funds, A, B and C, which differ according to the retirement period of the members by restrictions on investment and investment strategy. The provisions of the proposed law prescribe the conditions and arrangements for the selection of the pension fund A, B or C conditions for the existence of a member of the pension fund, changes to the categories of pension fund and conditions for the transfer of members to a pension fund managed by another pension company. Insurance undertakings which are secured in a mandatory pension insurance system on the basis of generation solidarity under the Pension Insurance Act and who are under 40 years are required to be secured on the basis of individual capitalised savings in a pension fund that they choose and become members of that pension fund, where the insurance company may be a member of a category A-A fund until the reference day as we have heard it for 10 or more years, and a member of the pension fund category B if there are 5 or more years left by the reference day, and meaning category C is the least expected contribution at least and takes the risk. What is important is that an insurance undertaking can only be a member of a single pension fund and have only one account in that pension fund and contributes to compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings are paid at a legally established rate and the raised funds for compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, the central insurance register is allocated to pension funds. The law also provides for the keeping of personal accounts and the valuation of assets where the paid contributions to the pension fund and the transferred accounts are recorded in favour of the personal accounts on behalf of the member, and the funds in the personal account of the pension fund member are his personal property which cannot be subject to an application or insurance against a member of the pension fund or part of its bankruptcy or liquidation mass. Provisions are prescribed for the form and company of a pension company, the permitted activities of a pension company which can be exclusively the establishment and management of compulsory pension funds, whereby the establishment and management of one pension fund by each category A, B and C. In addition to those activities, management companies are allowed to establish and manage voluntary pension funds. The minimum basic capital of the pension company for the management of a compulsory pension fund of 40 million kuna, i.e. an additional increase in the minimum capital prescribed by the law governing the establishment and operation of voluntary pension funds, should the pension society also carry out the management activity of such funds. The paper in the provisions of the proposed law also contains the possibility that insurance companies who have completed an internship with an increased duration during their working life and who exercise the right to retire under the Pension Insurance Act may exercise the right to retire from the second pension pillar. As we have heard, this law regulates the promotion of pension funds and relations with members. The proposed law also prescribes the work of the central insurance register which performs data collection and control activities by insurance undertakings, thereby rounding and burning the system. As regards voluntary pension funds, voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings on 31 May 2013 covers a total of 219 thousand 830 insurance companies of which 196 thousand 676 insurance companies are open and 23 154 in closed pension funds and of course we cannot be satisfied. The proposed law therefore lays down the scope of its application and the EU rules which have been transposed to national legislation. Provisions on voluntary laws on voluntary pension funds are prescribed to prohibit the activities of pension programmes and the management of voluntary pension funds without the approval of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the management of the register of pension societies and voluntary pension funds, the publication of a list on the websites, legal forms of pension societies, the demarcation of the basic activities of the pension society, the category of activity of the pension society and the obligation of prior authorisation to work and the territorial determination of the activities of the pension society and the possibility of working at EU level by establishing a branch or directly on the basis of the freedom to provide services. The level of fixed and minimum capital as well as capital requirements for a pension company managed by a closed pension fund with defined incomes shall also be determined. The minimum capital of the pension society is 15 million and 22,800 million kuna respectively if it manages a closed fund with defined incomes. It is also mandatory for the pension company to always maintain the company's capital of at least one half of the lowest amount, the underlying capital established by this law. Conditions shall be laid down for a member of a pension society, the criteria to be taken into account when assessing the suitability, suitability and financial stability of shareholders or members of a pension society for the management of or direct or indirect holders of qualifying shares. The institutions of the pension society, the conditions for the exercise of the functions of management members, members of the pension society supervisory board, etc., shall be governed by membership in a voluntary pension fund open and closed, the way in which members of the pension fund are entitled to be entitled to retire, the possibility of temporary and to experience pension payments made by a pension insurance company or an extremely voluntary pension fund and the prescribed way of keeping a register of members. Of course, membership in the fund starts with a membership contract with a pension company that manages the selected fund and registers members. The same person may be a member of one or more funds at the same time. And of course with these two laws is bound and the proposal and the Pension Insurance Companies Act are inevitably amended. The proposed law regulates the business of pension insurance companies in a comprehensive and precise manner, precisely defines the subject of the business, which is the payment of the taxaneously stated types of pensions, and distinguishes transactions that are in direct or indirect connection with the business of the pension insurance company, legal forms of the pension insurance company are prescribed, and defines the increase of the basic capital of the pension insurance company that is increasing in relation to the applicable law to the 22.5 million kuna, which is in accordance with the standards of the Member States prescribed by the European regulations. It is also possible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to intervene with a decision on a proposal from the competent ministry in the event of a notification by the European Commission on controls and adjusted amounts in order to react pro-responsibly in the event of a need. Organisational requirements to be met by a pension insurance company and the obligation to establish a comprehensive and effective risk management system are also established. It is proposed to ensure the thorough coordination necessary and sufficient to ensure that the system of authorisation for work and prudential supervision is recognised. The possibility of a company operating outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia is also foreseen in the EU Member States, which is subject to specific conditions in accordance with the rules governing the same areas in the EU. In relation to the offer of pension programmes, the proposed law extends it to two new voluntary pension programmes for workers and employees under strictly prescribed conditions and under certain circumstances. The new voluntary pension programmes are pension benefits and the addition of pensions by introducing a certain amount of redundancies of the Generation Solidarity Insurance System by enabling the employer to pay off new pensions. The possibility of offering pension programmes is extended to other legal persons in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a business cooperation contract as well as companies in other Member States. Finally, social security insurance at national level is organised primarily through a pension system which is guaranteed by the State in a certain way by persons who have made a contribution to pension insurance during the prescribed period and thus ensure an adequate degree of social security when they leave the world of work. Since we all know that the Generation Solidarity System cannot be the only one to endure and that, in fact, in voluntary pension funds, too few who have applied to it, the SDP Club will support the adoption of these three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60532	Thank you and the club. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60533	Thank you very much, President. Well, fellow Members, this last sentence of yours practically asked me to answer, since you said generation solidarity couldn't carry this burden. Well, I can agree with that, but for what? Because we have this mandatory fund that carries 5%. We have more than that, and I'm not going to say "privileged pensions," I'm going to say "the ones that are according to special regulations." And if we were to sum it up with each other, then I'm not so sure, or even more so the other day on the round table is brought out by a colleague named Hrelja, one of the calculations that turns out to be mandatory, generational solidarity can work. I just find it unclear if you're already representing that attitude that makes you think it is, why is the second pillar even good? What do we get with that? I didn't hear except that opinion of the government I heard you read, did I not hear an explanation for what we're getting with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60534	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60535	Thank you. My dear colleague may not have been clear enough even though I said it in a few sentences. I think it's very clear what we're getting by it, which is that we're still getting the chance that one day we're going to retire with a little more money than we're leaving today. But as far as I know, I said that in my debate, maybe you didn't listen to me very carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60536	Thank you, well-respected representative Vanja Posavac. We're going to discuss it further by the committee clubs. The Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak are next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60537	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. These three laws are a sequence of the Retirement Insurance Act, which passed the first reading and Croatian Labourists have many questions and many concerns when it comes primarily to the mandatory pension funds law and the second pension column. Why do we have questions? We primarily have questions for reasons because when the second pension pillar was passed, some other time, more workers worked, there was a bigger salary and there was a different method of separation and much greater security. Meanwhile, there have been major changes. Now, as we've heard, we have almost the number of workers and the number of pensioners 1:1. We have one situation that our salaries are falling, for example Germany these days has arranged a minimum salary of 8.5 euros which is an increase and somewhere when we turn it into kuna it is about 63 kuna, our minimum salary when 2984 kunas are converted into a clock such as the clock of this German minimum wage that is 16 kuna, so the minimum hour in Germany is four times higher than in Croatia. In all of the performances, it is said that the cost of working in Croatia is too high and should be lower. Here's an example of how in Germany the labour price is not too high and the minimum wage is being raised. Why am I talking about this? Because it's an essential condition of salary height, separation into individual funds. If the wages are low, then the detours are low. And now, for example, when we talk about a second pillar of pension insurance, then all those who say it gives some kind of safety to the workers, I say responsibly that there is no security for all those low-income workers and that they will have no better account in that second pension column. That part can only have better pensions for those who have a lower average wage and for them can also mean something more to that second pension column. Knowing that the introduction of the pension pillar was in some way the World Bank project and, in practice, the introduction of a second pension pillar, part of the allocation of pension insurance contributions was to be reduced from the budget and that it goes practically to private banks established by private funds. And based on the availability of that money, they also make certain profits and certain profits. I can also support that with a certain fact that somewhere around the four mandatory pension funds, about 300 million kunas make money annually, but in that part 300 million kuna is somewhere around 60 million kunas of REGOS. On the other hand, when we compare that somewhere around 360 million kuna costs HZMO to the current 3,000 employees and all those costs, then we compare what it means when it comes to the cost of the second pension column. On the other hand, the budget is being allocated as the older generations go into retirement that still pay 20% into the budget because their pensions are 20%, the less they disappear and the more they pay only 15%, and that means that the inflow into the state budget is smaller because this other part of 5% goes into private pension funds. And something that we Croatian Labourists do not agree with, which is the question of the state, has determined and committed everything that 5% must pay in private pension funds established by private banks. How these funds and these private banks will relate to these funds, especially in the section in which the minister spoke, we introduce three portfolios A, B and C, with a higher risk, which means that there is a possibility that some of the funds could be destroyed and that members of the individual funds could be left without that money, and they could also in some way lose those funds and remain deprived of part of the pensions. When we take that second pension stake today, I think we could count on how many people have retired from that second pension stake. Less or less everyone transferred the moment they retired their money into the first generation pension column because it was more favourable to them and because they were provided with larger pensions. One particular question is raised, a part of the countries whose World Bank imposed the second pension pillar, such as Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, gave up and abolished the second pension column. Why did they end it, we didn't even try to analyze it, we didn't even try to see what the reasons were for them to do it. On the other hand, we have a part of countries like Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia that have reduced the allocation of contributions to that second pension column somewhere 2-3% and it is far less than we are 5%. Today, the minister said that somewhere last data suggests that there is about 57 billion money, assets, assets in all four mandatory pension funds, and if we take the information that 31.12 last year was 51. There were 51 billion assets in those funds, which means that in these 11 months somewhere around 6 billion funds are more in those funds, these four funds, and the question is, what is the profit of these funds if we know that in a year there are about 5 billion funds in those funds. [[Intruder President: Let the minister listen.]] On the other hand, the state through the budget and this 15%, and those who make 20% realign about $19.5 billion for pension payments, and it lacks close to 16 billion in funding. In order to cover that deficit, he must borrow, raise unfavourable loans and pay interest. We haven't reanalyzed, and when we proposed this part of the amendments to the law and pension reform, let's call it this in some way a mini pension reform, we haven't seen any better or worse sides that could happen in a shorter period, but also in a longer period. Today, the minister has indicated through his presentation and has often used the word expected or expected, and we are expected or expected not to give a very large guarantee. And these are also the reasons why Croatian Labourists will not support this part of the amendment or these new laws, primarily because we felt that a more serious debate should be held on this area, that this more serious debate should include a lot of more professional people who should analyse the future that awaits pensioners in some future. And I'm afraid that with this sudden move, and primarily in the law, it states that he enters into force on January 1st next year, which means that we have very little time between the first and second readings, that the laws were under discussion somewhere in the summer period, and that quality of this issue and very important laws have not been carried out one quality, comprehensive debate based on the confrontation of arguments and professions and that we haven't determined our way to ensure a better and safer future for the pensioners. Because I am afraid that all those who will be sentenced to this part of the first pension pillar of generation solidarity that, during the next period, cannot hope for something better, and especially not on the basis of certain activities carried out by this government, which is a question and a reduction of salaries, and also in part, part of the information that has come from Croatian Labourists, that also prepares a certain law that will send state officials and public services to all of them, which primarily refers to a transitional period for women who meet the conditions for full pension will not be able to work for up to 65 years, but will be forced into retirement which will also be a further burden on the Mirovina Fund. And we can't expect any better results with a steady rise in unemployment. That is why I think and that is why Croatian Labourists will not support these laws, because this area should have been approached much more seriously and much more quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60538	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Srdjana Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60539	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. There's more to the fact that I'd like to replicate. The first is basically the key. You say you won't have the safety of those with lower wages. Look, this law, however, provides additional security compared to the current law, particularly by regulating risks. So security is what is based on certain risks of any fund, investment, etc. This law on this matter is even more rigid than previous laws, although we are essentially on the capital market. I'm not talking about the debate about the possibility of investment in infrastructure, or rather, it's much better when you can take control of companies than when you're just a participant. What does it mean they won't have any security? If you have quality investments, and these are especially all about securities and bonds, and if you have contributions from 9 to 15% on investment, this is the average contribution based on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency's report from last year, then you cannot send a message to citizens that it is poor security. Because from 9% to 15% little where and few people today, even in Europe, and I won't say, in Croatia can have a certain contribution to a certain investment. Therefore, when you say no public debate has been held on this law. Well, the debate has been held, the debate is being held today, and it's going to be done until the second reading, and then I can say that you haven't even studied the pension funds at all. Because if you had read the report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency that we had not long ago then some answers and facts might have been given.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60540	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60541	Thank you very much, President. Comrade Gjurkovic, you said there would be no security for those with a lower salary. Yeah, I can say that. The minister spoke here of some amounts and took 400 kuna as an example. A minimum wage worker will pay 140 kuna. The question of his work and how much time he spent at the Employment Service to work and to allocate those specific funds to the second pillar of pension insurance. If he's been at the Employment Service for three or four or five years, there's no payment, no money. They're making us talk about an ideal situation where wages are normal, when there's always work, when there's no unemployment and when there's no 300,000 unemployed at the Employment Office who just can't get to work. These are reasons why we Croatian Labourists warn that it is a completely different moment and a different situation and that when we are discussing some laws we must take these facts into account. It's not enough to say we just hope or expect, but we have to have some claims about something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60542	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60543	Dear Comrade Tušak, I'll only be at the beginning since the same is true of your debate. It is now becoming clearer to me why Mr. Linic is increasingly a popular politician and why he is respected by both the left and right sides and the opposition because he listens to everyone, because each of them is pollemised, because he respects even the strictest criticisms as long as the case of this minister who tells us today is not Mr. Mrsic. You were talking about the problems of the second pension fund, I'm sorry. Or we could even call the fund. The second pension column is another product. You're absolutely right about the banking, monetary sector. And there wouldn't be that product if there wasn't a profit in it and there was no profit in it first of all for banks and monetary institutions. It's not one of those instruments made by banks to make someone else make money but to make money, so if what's left is maybe another profit. That's first of all. You've been diagnosed correctly. We haven't done any analysis. I was in that category that could choose whether the other means by age would accept the second and go with 5% of the second column or not. That's when I talked to those who understood each other and who were experts and they said no, it's not worth it. Many, thousands of people naively believed the propaganda that was implemented by Racan's government in early 2000, and today they will get from that second pillar when they will retire to the church, especially those with lower salaries. They threw the money in the wind. It would be fairer to run analysis and not exactly protect banks and money institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60544	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar. And there's an answer? Excuse me. Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60545	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Your colleague Vuksic said why Minister Linic is becoming more popular. So that Minister Linic will not become more popular when Minister Linic says we must take the money to secure the budget for regular pension payments. If we have a million and 200 thousand pensioners, they are clearly becoming more popular because it gives pensioners the security that pensions will be paid. But only paid pensions. And when you were talking about the second pillar and the banking money sector, I totally agree with you because who wouldn't want 5% of the singles given to you because the state has passed such a regulation that the bank's privates in 5% of the money come in and they're given to manage that money. How are they going to manage tomorrow when this bill is passed, when we're going to have a portfolio A, B and C that's going to be risky and these money if somewhere and they fail who's going to be responsible if that money isn't going to be? Surely no one, then they'll say you're yourself responsible for choosing portfolio A.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60546	Honorable representative Tomislav Zhagar and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60547	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Dear fellow Tušak, perhaps these colleagues are not so old after years but who were born before may remember what was stricter, it was a mattress in Slavonia that was filled with straw, and sometimes people kept the money tighter for old age. It's true, and that's already in a couple of debates here in amending and passing laws, we said that this system of intergenerational solidarity is not sustainable simply for a number of reasons not to repeat them now. I think the minister has said that several times today. It's just that under the circumstances, it's like that. It's just medically one thing, people live longer, and there's less difference between when they retire. But to get back to this point right now is actually a replica of what I wanted to tell you, colleague Tušak. So you're saying that, and that's the last time we've had the chance to hear, that the pension insurance system or the pension system can't be seen just in today's time, we have to look into the future. It's just that this system has to change because it's so unsustainable. You say that about 20 billion, slightly less than 20 billion are income from these 15% or 20% of those that are only in the first pillar, and 5 billion of these 5% that go to the second pillar and that it might be better for all 20% to go to the first pillar right now, but in the long run, it's a model that won't be or isn't sustainable. And as for funds, deposits in funds, of course, bankers and anyone who has money or who invests money expects money as well. We actually expect them to do something on behalf of us to fertilize that money, and then indirectly, that's what it's meant to do if they're smart enough to invest that money to stimulate the economy. Here, there are the goals of the second pillar, at least that's how I see them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60548	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60549	Yes, my colleague, Sagar, I can agree with you that people live longer, but life in Croatia is far smaller than in some other European countries. We haven't spoken about it today. We haven't even used certain arguments about it. And I fully agree with you that the system needs to be changed. I also said in my discussion that the system should be changed but the system needs to be well analysed before then, based on a certain analysis, based on a certain assessment, based on certain arguments, facts and access to a change of a certain system. We didn't do it, the minister today made us this one presentation of a projection that I've been very nice to him to listen to but he couldn't convince me, and I believe he didn't convince the others that it could wait for us in the future. There were many words that we would see what would happen in practice. And that is why Croatian Labourists cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60550	Thank you very much. Dear representative Vanja Posavac and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60551	Thank you. My colleague, I understand your concern and I understand when you talk about the unemployed all the time and we're all worried about the unemployed. However, this law is also about those who are employed and who therefore pay the other and even to the third pension pillar, and therefore these laws are also not made and adopted within a week, two, three, but have been done for months and even up to a year are being prepared. And if we're going to say on one side you haven't done anything in two years, and then you're asking for a due diligence, I don't know until when. So something has to be done because obviously some things in that system don't work out. And when you say that a public debate has not been held, it is simply not true because the public debate has been carried out, the law is in the first reading, which means there is still time and I think there is plenty of time for all those who want to submit amendments, who want to submit their proposals and I have not heard your proposal on these three laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60552	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60553	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Posavac, we don't have any more corrections to the incorrect allegations. If we had, I could correct your allegations because I didn't say that there was no public debate, but I said that the public debate was in the summer period, which is not good. So you're telling me something I didn't say. Secondly, you said I was worried about the unemployed, not that I'm worried about the unemployed and worried about the employees, those who have a small salary, those who barely end up at the end of the month making peace with their incomes, I'm worried about those who work and don't get paid, I'm worried about those who are going to lose their jobs, and I always want to say it in some way in my discussions. If you didn't talk like that then you would speak for yourself, not on behalf of those people who chose me in this House, and that's why I always want to go with a clean face in front of them and fight for them here in this assembly, if someone else doesn't want to, and if someone thinks someone has to listen to their party say it, nobody in my party can tell me that I'm saying what I want, and if there are certain disagreements or some differences, then we can sort of agree together how we're going to perform, but no one has ever forbidden me to talk about anything that I want to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60554	Thank you, too. The new replica of the respected representative Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60555	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Tušak, you should talk, it's our job, you should speak openly, you should say what we think but you should be responsible when you're talking, not just looking at what someone might possibly like or what you're comfortable with at this point. The Croatian peace system as well as all pension systems due to the intergenerational solidarity system comes into trouble but Croatia is specific and you are aware of this pensioner relationship the best information that 1.5 billion kunas per month actually enters the deficit from the pension system. means every month missing from the contributions, missing 1.5 billion kuna 12 months 18 billion kuna for the functioning of the pension. We must therefore be responsible when we discuss this. You said at the beginning of your debate, the German model here is now agreed, 8.5 euros minimum hour, that's 4 times more than in Croatia, so when I call you to be principled, you say the laws are passed quickly, that they are brought without analysis. So, why don't you analyze the German laws well, so let's say you analyze the German Labour Act, and you'll see that, contrary to these passwords of yours, that the Labour Act is far more flexible than it is with regard to the proposal, you'll find that as far as these 56 hours of work are concerned. You'll see that there, read it, analyze the laws when you propose them when we want to be like Germany, then let's repaint something from Germany that we don't like at that time. Similarly, take a picture of yesterday's agreement when in Germany a coalition common to the laborer's proposal makes it possible to retire at 63 years if you've done 45 years of internships, so that's Germany, which is why Germany has four times the salary because all other things lie far more realistic and far more responsible than we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60556	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60557	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Radjenovic, I can agree with you when it comes to certain legal solutions that they are not in German law so ideal. But do you know now I have to ask you openly if there is collective bargaining in Germany, there are tariff collective agreements that protect certain, there are certain social partnerships, social agreements between social partners and that talk on the basis of the arguments of facts, projections and certain things. We don't have that. We've passed laws that introduced collective agreements, didn't want to talk about facts, didn't want to talk about some things, we've abolished everything, we've deleted everything, and now we're going to renegotiate. If you're not going to negotiate now and about the Labour Act, you won't accept, we're going to give in first reading, and then if these unions are satisfied, then maybe we'll agree, if we don't have the pleasure of going to vote here in this House. That's not good for Croatia. Without a social partnership, without a deal, there will be no progress, we will just go deeper and we will go further into a particular crisis. There's got to be a social partnership, and if there's no social partnership, then we're not getting it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60558	Thank you very much. HNS MPs' club and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60559	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with assistant, colleagues and colleagues. So, the three-law package, one is essentially a compliance with the acquis, the directives, and what I should, of course, point out that on behalf of the HNS Club, we will support all three laws and, of course, be commended by the public debate so far and the situation in which we have two readings in particular with the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, So let me also raise some open questions, debates, suggestions that until the second reading whether or not we can correct things, improve but also open up some questions. [[/Intruder Leko: Please do not disturb the minister so he can hear the exposure. Thank you very much.]] So first, what is still crucial to say, and that is, when we talk about compulsory pension funds, about four compulsory pension funds, that on 31 December 2012, there were a million 652 thousand 802 members. We've already heard from the minister of six hundred and eighty-five, 689 members from 30.9 this year. So the increase in the mandatory pension fund was 4.9 billion net contributions last year. The net assets of compulsory pension funds then amounted to HRK 51.1 billion on December 31st, 24,51% more than on December 31st 2011. The property of the companies for the management of compulsory pension funds on 31 December 2012 amounted to 557.7 million kuna, 8% higher than the same day of 2011, so it is extremely important for the company's assets when we talk about risks, security and essentially the quality of these pension funds. Just as I said to Mr. Tušak, the pension funds themselves in achieving these contributions last year ranged from 9.3 to 15.1%, therefore the absolute way of working, management is one of the more profitable to say so. And on the other hand, it indicates that it is also a high-quality investment but under maximum control with maximum certainty. Management companies in 2012 earned profits after tax of Kuna 111.4 million, 30% less than in 2011. In view of the fact that, of course, the reason lies in reducing the fees for managing and transferring part of the costs of the central insurance register to management companies, not only for poor governance but for literally reducing certain new obligations or new investments. When we discuss both today and in the future the property of compulsory pension funds, i.e. investments and article 125 of the new law, then we always talk about where it is invested. So far, this has been invested and will continue to be invested in securities, money market instruments, while respecting the prescribed investment restrictions in a way that ensures the quality and profitability of the entire portfolio of the fund to maintain adequate liquidity and reduce risk. So far, the assets of pension funds have mostly been invested on the domestic market about 88% of the assets in domestic government bonds, while foreign investments mainly related to shares and investment funds. And this is essentially the key to this management, investment, management, transfer and security of funds that the funds manage with that 5% as much as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia invest in these funds. Now that we are talking about the basic issues that are being regulated by the proposed law, we are always discussing how investment is managed and the way companies manage the property. In this law, we have certain additions, changes and restrictions, so on behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to open a few questions for discussion and reflection. I will begin the debate on the right to a reward, i.e. a fee with the basis of membership in the supervisory board of a society based on the ownership of a pension fund over shares. Here, the bill limits the right to compensation and we believe that when it is responsible for its work under the Law on Commercial Companies and other laws, the restriction of the right to compensation is neither marketable nor good. Of course, on this point, if we suggest that if they are appointed by the main congregation of society that they are then entitled to compensation because it is something that is according to the Law on Commercial Society and quite logically and clearly that those who are responsible for making certain decisions have the right to make certain decisions and, in particular, to be nominated by the congregations on this matter. Likewise, when we are discussing the very fact that a pension fund management company should submit an annual report to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, this is the question of Article 150, and why not all public companies give a direct report to the Parliament. Then why do we serve HANFA? We in the HANFA report get a report on the work of everyone, not just pension funds except all but the banking system and the controller that HANFA performs. So we have other agencies, regulators that perform certain activities that essentially sum up the work and analysis of all those for whom the work is authorised as regulators. So I think it would be good if and it is good that given the amounts, responsibility and need of the report in front of the Croatian Parliament that HANFA is the bearer of the report, it is the one that gives the answers primarily, and only then private pension funds because they would then come into one cohesion. Debates with private pension funds, and without HANFA as a regulator who should be the first to give answers. If something is wrong, then we come to a problem where we go directly to pension funds, and the regulator and the one who needs to give grades and protect the interests of citizens who are in compulsory pension funds, but in voluntary we do not have the opportunity and opportunity to get answers to these questions. So on this point, I think it is extremely important to come before the Croatian Parliament for the plenary session, giving a report by private companies is not directly directed in this way without HANFA because in this way we are entering a place where the one who has to regulate and who must be the main and responsible for the functioning and supervision of pension societies is coming to the so-called. Bypass and the debate itself and the reports itself are not adequate if we do not have HANFA here as the bearer, and then possibly retirement companies that would give certain answers. I think that on this point, it is certain that the committees within the Croatian Parliament could discuss as they can today debate and call on the basis of a report, such as the state audit of a particular company, as can the ministries of discussion and accountability after a state audit has been carried out. The committees should also be able to call directly members of the management of certain pension funds and discuss it in the presence and report of the HANFA, but I think it is only HANFA that should report and provide answers to the work. Likewise, when we talk about the possibility of reducing salaries in pension companies, Article 220, the job of HANFA is to control the work of such companies. If they hold that they must be profitable then they need to cut management fees, but entering the pay limit area is a little too big a step. Much more quality and much more adequate than with other regulators, to reduce a certain fee which can then be defined by the basis of certain realisations, objectives set, achievements, security, etc. And another open question on Article 125, so the property of the pension fund can consist exclusively of what it is now listed. In paragraph 11 so far, there have been other types of assets derived from the assets referred to in points 1 to 10 of this paragraph with the fact that we have a point in this bill, and so far it has been in the law as a property designated by a special regulation by the Agency in view of the safety and cost-effectiveness of that property. We therefore believe that this proposal could be complemented, i.e. to retain that part of the law referred to in Article 125(1) in general because we are opening up, of course, this area of further and additional investment that is necessary in the capital market, and of course under the control and supervision of HANFA. It is also open and there will always be an open question of additional investment, i.e. opening up investment space. Here we have an investment case, of course the possibility of investing in state property or infrastructure. It is quite clear that this is a key area for opening up investment opportunities for pension funds in the concession of Croatian highways, and this is essentially the quality that we have the opportunity to participate, participate, participate and be profitable through pension funds and retaining that management, i.e. tomorrow's profitability in highways. The issue of course and investments, e.g. non-listed capital market companies, and only on this issue are clear examples of world experience of pension funds saying they can invest up to 5% of the assets for non-listed companies. Also, Norwegian pension funds can invest up to 10% unlisted companies and... funds, and Swedish up to 10, Icelandic to 20, Finnish to 10. So besides experience for Croatia, the reason for such thinking is tomorrow in the law that our country has not developed well enough private capital funds as well as FGS and is one of the ways to help small businesses directly through pension funds, but of course not jeopardising and putting the funds at risk so that they can not recover but, in fact, capitalise quality. Here are a few comments, remarks and debates once again on behalf of the HNS club, we support these three laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60560	Thank you very much. There's a couple of replicas now, so let's get in line. Honorable representative Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60561	Thank you very much. My colleague, you have already mentioned second time that the transfer of these funds is 9% to 15% I must admit that the other day on the round table were representatives of the ministry, they were from the Economic Institute. Everyone's been tampering with the fact that the yield is from five and a half to six percent. This comes to me what many times I repeat the lie it becomes true because no one has objected. If that's 15%, then we don't need any reform because then these offerings are quite enough for the fund to function normally. You mentioned a report to Parliament in article 150, and you think there's no need for that. I'll remind you of some cases of some banks that have fallen apart, so that's what the whole hack was about. But in those banks, people invested money voluntarily. This is something that is a mandatory fund and I think that citizens have at least this way the right to know what's going on no matter what private funds are, separation into these funds is mandatory. And therefore, as soon as something is mandatory for the citizens, I think they have the right to feedback. As for the very existence of that other fund even if he were under the management of what we had a timely opportunity to put him in. Why not manage FINA, the Croatian Post Bank while still owned by the state. So all that extra income, given that the state is in crisis, that it goes all the way to the sale of its silver, so let it be filled with the state budget. But no, we give it, if it's that simple and good, the money leaks. Then why are we giving it to privates? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60562	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60563	Dear colleague, I've made it clear to your colleagues, so here's what I'm going to tell you. Therefore, the report by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Well, I guess we trust them. The contributions from the start of business have been between 5,80 and 4,63 since the start of business. Last year's offerings were between 9% and 15%. Thus, the contributions to investment are not small. What? Who paid for it? Comrade Shucker, I'll replicate to you later. So this was a good investment, these were good laws. This law further regulates itself, but also ensures that not only quality contributions, but that these funds of Croatian citizens are re-invested not only in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia but in infrastructure projects, in development and economy. Therefore, one of the better ways to invest their own money and to make citizens literally make a contribution, i.e. a profit if it is simpler and per the People's Dictionary to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60564	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60565	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What I was thinking of talking about was already a colleague, Novak, in his replica, but I have to do it again. In fact, this article 150. Therefore, whether or not pension societies should submit a report to the Croatian Parliament, although there is an HANFA. So that's how it was set up and HANFA could bring it out here. However, I think that for these very reasons why counterpart Novak spoke, and since these are citizens' payments, and that we and the citizens' MPs would have to get along with HANFA, reports from HAHFA's pension fund report. In fact, in order for me to know that every year I intervene here that there is no such report, that non-retirement pensions in the Peace Fund are paid 120 million kuna a year. Every year I spoke to the Director of the Peace Fund here year after year until Mr. Minister came up with the idea of how to solve the problem of non-retirement pensions, so he also used the OIB. So recently there were all other measures that actually prevented what the former Peace Fund and those who were in government had failed to prevent the previous government from constantly repeating the payment of non-retireable pensions, and I only knew that by getting a report from the Peace Fund. And why would they stop it now? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60566	Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60567	So, my dear colleague, I didn't mean to interrupt, but here it is essentially the law to talk about how my pensioner would call them here in front of the Croatian Parliament giving a report on his work. I said that they should primarily report to the committees, and the Croatian Financial Supervisory Agency should, as it has been so far, perhaps singled out specifically by pointing out pension funds with an even more detailed report. But I believe that directly four pension funds without the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency should not be present here on their work, because they can exhibit their work but without the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. It doesn't make sense that we analyze their work, because it's a key agency as a regulator that gives us input data so that we can have an attitude, so that we can discuss it properly. Therefore, they can be present together with the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency if there are certain direct issues. But the key is HANFA because HANFA is the one who says it's good, it's not good, it's HANFA that's finally sanctioning. Read the law. He's very strict. And today's law, the bill of law, and so far the laws. Therefore, investment in bonds, securities, investments that are few that I will not say more freely in the infrastructure of a particular company and the management of these companies is very strict and supervised by HANFA. So, directly if I told the pensioners to come to the quotes without the HANFA here wouldn't be good, they wouldn't get that quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60568	New replica and respected representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60569	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Gjurkovic has already taken some away from me from me from my colleague Novak and my colleague Grubisic, so I won't repeat myself in that discussion but I was a little interested in something when you said it would be possible to invest in highways. Now, if we take the financial opportunity of the funds to invest in what is prescribed by the law, it's a very small amount, a possibility on the road, because the maximum part of the amount is 3%, so now if you take the total value of all the 4 pension funds that the minister has said today have 57 billion, then recalculate 3 percent of what that is and what that value is of our highways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60570	Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60571	Dear colleague, here's the fact that you've just said so much just shows how limited safety is to reduce the risk of investment in this law and so on. And since the Croatian government has and prepares a number of infrastructure projects and other projects that other than securities and bonds can invest pension funds only opens up a space to safely invest Croatian citizens' money in the Republic of Croatia, to reduce that small share that is invested in non-RH funds and that basically we have a quality with that money and contribute by investing in Croatia and not outside and what little investment is out there, 20 per cent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60572	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the turn of the Croatian Party of Retired and Honorable Representative Zeljko Šemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60573	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Peace Reform and the Pension Insurance Act began as of January 1st, '99. the year, and the result of its application is the damage to new pensioners to date amounting to up to 30 billion kuna. The causes are inadequate current value of retirement as a result of the stolen pensions of old pensioners in the period '93-'98. years and neither later the compensation nor the allowances corrected the current value of the pension, which they should have. As of 1 January 2002, the second pillar of the pension and third pillar as voluntary retirement insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings is still in office with the Generation Solidarity Pillar. Their task was to collect 5% of the contributions each month to the savings of employees on their basic account and to accumulate capital foreseen for the payment of future insurance pensions. In addition, according to the Pension Insurance Companies Act, a pension company engaged in the payment of pensions from both pillars was arranged on the basis of individual capitalised savings. According to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, insurance companies were required to enter the second pillar by the age of 40, while they were able to choose their own membership and savings from 40 to 50. Strong media promiscation worked significantly on one part of the insurance company, so almost 100,000 so-called ‘Charlie’ were found in the second pillar. "good guys." The decision was difficult, but some of them realized after five years that their decision was wrong. I personally received one of the first solutions from the retired members of the second pillar in 2006. After less than five years of membership, which is really small, and the savings in the account were only 10 thousand kunas. Her pension from the second pillar was 27 kuna. She was retired at 54 years of age, her savings of 10 thousand kuna was allocated until her age 85 and of course could not be greater than these 27 kuna. From this data, as well as a number of other solutions, in the following years a logical conclusion was that without a minimum of 20 years of savings and above average wages cannot expect a more favourable pension. In addition to being the worst members of the second pillar in retirement, they had no right to add 4 to 27% of the first pillar, which would reduce the problem by 70%. In addition, it was also a restrictive formula for calculating the basic pension for the period from the date of entry into the second pillar to the day of retirement. On the basis of this knowledge, HSU already in 2008 proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to enable volunteers to return to the first pillar together with the savings and the calculation of pensions as if they had never been members of the second pillar, as individual damages were 400 to 1200 kuna per parole of higher salaries and damages. However, in our pension system, bad law provisions or various injustices cannot be corrected overnight, so we waited 5 years for the correction of the injustice and welcomed 2 months before the parliamentary elections. Thus, on 15 October 2011, by amending the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, it was possible to leave the second pillar for those insurance companies who entered it voluntarily in 2002 and to receive the right to retire only from the first pillar, which was far more favourable for them. What's the situation today in the second pension column? On September 30th this year, there are over a million and 600 thousand insurance companies, and their pension has reached 57 billion kuna. Most of it is invested in government bonds, small shares and shares. The costs of managing the compensation to HANFA and REGOS in 2012 amounted to up to 240 million kuna. This autumn, enough about the fate of the second pillar and we are also hearing about future pensions of 60-70% of the average salary. It's really an assessment just as the question of that will say 665 thousand new pensioners who today with an average pension of 2000 kuna to 36% of the average salary. The fact that by paying 5% of contributions to the second pillar by five billion kunas is a reduction in the total amount of pensions from the first pillar which must be compensated from the state budget. Of course, at that time, the crisis for the consequence also has the instability of the total state finances and the hierarchical financial market since 2008 has reduced the savings and expected effects in confirming this savings. The form of this savings is a model of a world bank that is used in former socialist countries and has a different destiny. Hungary did a nationalisation of the total savings, Poland first reduced its rate from 7.3% to 2.3% two years ago and is discussing what will happen to the savings these days. The Czech Republic and Slovenia accepted a voluntary pillar and Estonia and Latvia and Lithuania reduced their contribution rates. The current application of this law, according to the Proposer, pointed out the need to separate the two existing individual capitalised savings systems in two specific laws. It is important to introduce within the existing system three new categories of pension funds from portfolios a, b and c in view of the retirement period of members and the risk of investment in statistical strategies. It is prescribed to manage the assets of pension funds with a view to reducing the risk of a decline in value, dispersion of investment, to be limited in view of the type of assets invested in pension funds a b or c and to which the assets are prohibited from investing the assets of the pension fund. The introduction of these three portfolios that insurance companies can choose depending on the time, until the age pension conditions are met, enables the investment of a younger member's pension in more risky financial instruments that bear a higher contribution that is a fund and until conservative investment of assets in the fund c which remain five years until the age of retirement. There will continue to be more debates about the future and fate of the second pillar, whether to abolish what many suggest, or smart at a time of crisis and whether it is possible to increase the rates of contribution. There are several reasons to conduct this whole debate and certainly the most important are demographic change, lack of economic growth, high unemployment and a particularly hierarchical financial market. The first pillar covers certain social risks such as the lowest pension, disability, family and has a lot of solidarity elements until it can be said for the second pillar but therefore has a risk of poor governance and investment and savings, compensation and a lot of high management costs. There is no responsibility that for wrong investment, for low yields, the burden of risk is exclusively on the individual. The second pillar is unfavourable for low-average insurance, for women, for temporary and specific employees. Pension savings owners don't decide anything, they don't have control, it's all in the hands of funds or banks. This proposal for investment at three levels of risk is not a guarantee and guarantee of higher contributions therefore the Croatian Party of Retirement represents the opinion that there should be a second pillar at the first pillar as a voluntary savings because the estimates are that such savings will be paid to insurance companies with higher incomes, which is up to 20% maximum. At the beginning of the pension reform, we thought that this had no capital would be aimed at investing in the economy, in new technologies and jobs, and thus best fertilise. Today, though, we see that such expectations have failed and gone in a different direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60574	The replica of Ivana Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60575	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Schamper is not good at using hard words, you said stolen pensions, you obviously forgot 93.Inflation a thousand and some more percent, a stabilisation program, 30 percent occupied Croatia, a million refugees and exiles. That was the 93th situation. The government did what it did, no one stole anything from anyone, but when you already told the stolen pensions then at least it would be fair to say that the Croatian state paid 15 billion kuna equivalent to the highway from Karlovac to Split in the name of those pensions not paid. In that return of debt to the pensioners, almost 40 and some more percent of the shares of HT sold, as well as the shares of Ina went. No one says that it was easy for the pensioners at that time, that they were not damaged, but don't say that someone was covered because at that point, the state probably had priorities to defend and take care of those who had escaped and later when the situation had improved with 15 billion kunas in agreement with the pensioners' association about the project and the programme had returned. So if you're accusing, at least admit it. But please, no one has stolen anything from anyone, and don't use any hard words.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60576	Replication response, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60577	Dear fellow, I think we all remember well the full retirement reform procedure to the new Pension Insurance Act, which passed that law to the new pensioners, and if you think it wasn't stolen pensions it seemed to me, you were talking about stolen pensions I was talking about the period in pensions from 99 to today From 93-98, pensions were in line under Valentiæ's regulations under the law......./Invader Zgrebec: Comrade Shuker, please, you had a replica, listen to the answer. And that's why the old pensioners got their benefits, they got 100% and 6 kuna, they got 0.5 to 20% pension increases. [[Come in, Zgrebec: Comrade Shucker, please respond.]] At that time, the new pensioners had a new current value as a result of the pension that was calculated at the wrong level on 31.12.'98. If, in addition, 100 kuna and 6% and up to 20% increase were taken into account as a refund, then the current pension values should be adjusted for these amounts. And today we are the new pensioners of 470 kuna on average smaller than the old ones. This is 3.7 billion at the annual level in 2013. So much for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60578	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60579	Dear colleague, you've given a lot of questionnaires, uncertainty and citizens no control, etc. Look, pension funds have very, very good supervision. And special supervision and direct supervision are also checked by companies for the management and organisation of the business, fund management, investment of assets under management, risk management of the company's funds, control of the calculation of the value of the assets. Indirect surveillance is carried out on a daily basis. Therefore, the supervision of pension funds is one of the most effective and this is clearly demonstrated so far and will be and must be in the future. Therefore, there are those who are both trained and licensed and supervised by the Croatian Parliament in the performance of their work and other institutions so that there are no games with pension funds in the way you wanted to show it in some way. Therefore, control is extremely, extremely professional and so far has proved and will be so in the future. Therefore, in order for citizens to monitor, they can monitor reports, based on the report, they can see exactly where the investment was being invested, how much investment was being invested, how much contributions were made, etc. But if the citizens directly, that would be, of course, impossible because there is an HANFA. And so far there have been no objections to surveillance by HANFA and all regulatory and acts of law and sublegal are quite well placed, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60580	The answer to the line, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60581	I didn't say there was no control of HANFA and certain institutions that should do it, I was talking about that I'm a savingser, except that he can find out how much of his personal savings account has no other control and knowledge of what it's all invested in, how fertilized it is, how lost it is because of the wrong investments, we don't know that. All we know is what the total contribution is and how much each savings is in its account. There's no other information to be saved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60582	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker. You're not listed. Here's your colleague, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60583	I don't get noticed in two days, but good. Comrade Schamper, I am with many of your settings quite consensual but that last sentence in which you said about the investment of pension funds, I would say that since you and the ruling coalition have suggested something to you to force and insist on. Namely, we are currently discussing the monetization of Croatian highways. The government believes and is quite certain that whoever takes Croatian highways, so monetized that they will have profit, that they will not take Croatian highways for nothing. I know that this is a 3% limit, so a limiting restriction that doesn't allow that much investment. But if we're sure that in 50 years, whoever monetizes Croatian highways will have profits, then why these 57 billion that exist in private pensions are actually not private, that's our money. And I believe that every Croatian citizen, every Croatian citizen would gladly agree to such a solution. If I were to say monetant or one of those who would monetize and thus Croatian highways would say stay in some kind of, securely owned or not be accused as we are now accusing that we will give a stranger Croatian highways in monetization. Come on, let's also adjust the legal provisions. Well, that's not a problem to change. Do you think that would be useful for our insurance companies as well? Here I am in the second pillar, I would like to agree to be here for my money and my share to go for the monetization of our Croatian highways. If the state has set the second pillar the same way they've drugged us on loans in Swiss, come in, come in, enter the second pillar, you'll be fine. He's got REGOS, so he'll point you where you need to go. 80% of REGOS directed 20% we left. Well, then this could point us in the same direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60584	Thank you. The answer to the line, Zeljko Schamper. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60585	Well, my colleague Grubisic here I agree with you that it should have and it would have been better if it had been invested in the economy, I would be happy to say it was invested in some technology, in a new production line in my Podravka, there would have been more contributions to pensions. And I think today we have a lot of goals that could be financed with these great resources for our concepts. I don't know if it's good to invest in monetization, but we and other projects that this Croatia needs. This is Plomin, which is hydrothermia and a lot of projects where these large financial resources could be invested and would bring new jobs and growth in the economy and reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60586	And now colleague Ivan Schuker on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60587	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's unfortunate that there are so many of us in the assembly, and we're discussing the law that when you look at yesterday and the day before yesterday we discussed the budget, then on the expenditure side of the budget this part that regulates these laws is extremely difficult. The second thing, this law tangs several million Croats, and when we discuss this, we are discussing this law as if nothing exists in Croatia at the moment, as if this law is starting to apply to something completely new, there are no problems, there are no delays. And secondly, we're talking about this together as if we weren't witnesses of what happened four years ago in the world. It might also be good if Mr. Minister spoke of this together and how much was the loss of these voluntary pension funds in the crisis. And if we know that they invested more than 60% of their assets in government bonds, they practically lost nothing because that transfer they put in the value of the bond remained practically the same because they grew slightly, they didn't lose anything. So what little they invested in the stocks had a loss of over a billion kuna. Therefore, we must be aware that in finance everything that brings some high profit carries with it and a high risk. There's no high profit without high risk, it just doesn't exist in finance, and whoever thinks it's so grossly wrong. There's going to be another crisis and there's going to be another loss. But what do we have in Croatia today? We have the first pillar of pension that has a million and 250 thousand pensioners, and 750 thousand have a pension under 3000 kuna, so with such low pensions unfortunately in the state budget every year we have to secure 18 billion kuna from tax revenues to pay off pensions. And what's worse, I've talked about it several times and even more than my colleagues from HSU for this pay phone, we have four types of pensioners in Croatia at the moment, depending on who retired. Why are we talking four types of pensioners, because they have four kinds of supplements because of the basic pension reform of '99? Some reforms were carried out, the mini reforms in 2002, and in 2005, and this was produced after those pensioners who were in a certain way damaged, who retired until '98, produced other pensioners who.... So in 2004, in fact, in the year 1.1.2005, those 6% and 100 kuna bonuses that were retired for pensioners who had lost something in some period, and even if they had been treated as part of the pension pay for pensioners, they included a pension basis. Look, colleagues and colleagues, why am I saying this? In the first year, that involvement cost 100 million kuna. Here's Mr. Minister can confirm that today's inclusion of 6% plus 100 kuna per year costs almost a billion kuna for the simple reason that when we talk about pensions it produces that cyclical increase, we can compare it most vividly with a rectangular triangle. So you have two catheters, you have a hypotensive that grows, so all you give in pensions, all you multiply in the coming years, so the best example is the indexation of pensions. Because look, all the macroeconomic indicators and the reference sizes based on which pension indexed in the last year were very low, so we can say almost if we don't take inflation at the lowest possible levels, but when you look at it all together, it raised the pension cost by over 500 million at the annual level. So then there were pensioners who had retired, one had left until then, the other had left until then and there was a 20% difference in pensions, and there were some additions. Why am I saying this to my colleagues and colleagues? Well, because I'm afraid of this second pillar of retirement and God forbid it's like Mr. Minister used to say, as my colleague Gjurkovic used to say. 'Cause look, if those carriers were making pension reform in '99. have made an assessment that the separation in the second pillar of retirement by 2010, which should have been applied either in 2001 or 2002, but by 2010, it should have increased to 10%, so twice what we are now singled out and that this is some appropriate percentage that guarantees some decent pension in some future times. We stayed at 5%, and we claim to have some quality pensions with it. Oh, my God. I'd like to fool the one who proposed such a pension law, and also that we've cheated on ourselves who did some other evaluations in some later years and that really people who single out 5% at this point will have enough high pensions. However, we must also be prepared because we all keep saying that we are a social state. If at a given time when the first pensioners who will have half the time in one, so only the first pension, and the second half of the internships will have the first and second pillars of retirement and when those pensions start to pay off, if we see that those pension payments from the second pillar of retirement are not adequate states will simply have to react, they will have to react because we will not be able to allow our citizens to live below some social minimum. So that's what can happen. The second pillar of retirement, see what his offerings are. Well, there shouldn't be too much math experts or calculations if it's up to an average of 4 billion a year and 600 is the average of the last 10 years. If it's 10 years old, then it's about 11, then it's about 47, eight billion kuna. And if today the assets of the funds are that big and so big, if the funds in 70% of the cases placed their assets in government securities, and the interest on government securities there I'll say for the period before I was the minister, so they moved between the placements of these bonds on the domestic market between 4 and something else up to 6 and 20, 6 and 30 percent, so we can say that some average contribution to government bonds was 5 and something else. And if you have 60% of the capital on that contribution, if you have five crisis years when the value of the state bonds of the Republic of Croatia has not grown but have been there somewhere at that level, then it just says how risky it can be. However, also colleagues and colleagues if the Minister of Finance announced who are the buyers of the Government of Croatia's bonds and now the ones that have been issued and we can talk about them four or five years ago, it is irrelevant so you will see what pension funds are buying bonds from the Republic of Croatia. So they act and buy in the whole market. The minister also mentioned that pension funds were still to be involved and acted on the development of the capital market. Yeah, that's right and it's a normal thing and a logical thing that the minister said. Unfortunately, however, the capital market in Croatia has been mutilated and it practically does not exist. We must say this honestly because at the moment when shares of the biggest Croatian companies were sold, so we think of Pliva, ZABA, INA, you today, given that it is far more important in problems in the Croatian market to trade more significantly and where Croatian pension funds would invest. And the logical thing is that they make the most sense to invest in government bonds because there's the biggest and safest contribution. Because even though these international rating agencies are good for us, I still think that Croatia is not a risky country at all to invest and that whoever invests in Croatian securities will be certain that these money will be returned to him. But I'm saying someone set us up with some kind of ladder, and unfortunately, we all pay dearly. But when we talk about it, we can't rule out either the second or the third pillar of retirement. Why? Because both the money they collect from Croatian taxpayers will be placed on the market. If I have no intention at all of doing so, and that's why I'm not sticking to it, I'm not going by any legal provisions. Why? Because most of the articles in the law are consistent with EU directives and with the experiences of some countries that have far more. It would be stupid to pollemize whether it's like this, is it? Whether to invest in some securities as much as that. I assume that the ministry and those people who prepared it have the most data and that they found some kind of the most rational percentage there. And I'm saying I wouldn't just take the right to say, if I were to invest this much here, because if a man were to say that, then he'd just have to have a bunch of paper in front of him and, on the basis of that, bring and carry judgments. I'm saying it is, but why am I saying all this in advance exactly to warn the ministry of those articles about what they can invest in and how much money they can be invested in? Because the original provision for which we were all accused that 60% of the money from the peace funds had to be invested in the securities of the Republic of Croatia was for the simple reason that these coins remain for the Republic of Croatia. At the time, Croatia couldn't even do much in debt outside, and it paid relatively high interest rates. And then the logical thing was if we had to pay interest to better take the money we have in Croatia and pay those interest rates to Croatia. However, the situation is very different now. We are not only EU members, but we are also in the financial market community in Europe and the logical thing that these things have been introduced. Investments in infrastructure projects, etc. Let's not fool ourselves, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's not gonna be a pension fund coming in and telling some town here's what we're gonna give you 15 million for your water network. I mean, why? Because that's what you think and that's what you say. So in order for them to invest in infrastructure projects someone has to come out with some kind of securities, offer them to someone and say it, these papers are being issued for that and that. You put your money into it. How much will you pay, what will be the offering I mean most literally to say. Now, yes, that's not there. Also these pension funds, these bonds at a given time if they estimate that their price went up above the one where they bought them, and if the offering is so they can make an assessment that it might be better for them at that point to sell and buy something else. It doesn't have to mean that they'll have those papers on them permanently. So that's why I'm saying that trading on the stock market is very risky. Many lost their home and had no housing in 2009, the tenth, the eleventh, and the twelfth. And that's why these papers aren't harmless at all. And whoever manages the funds has the same responsibility. So far, legal provisions have virtually limited any liability because they had to invest 60%. But I repeat, perhaps it would be good not for someone to call, but only for that, Mr. Minister, that many who, I would not want to offend anyone now, were not engaged in this work,... What it means is that with a little money that you've invested in some risky placements, you lose over a billion and a half kuna in one year, and that's what happened to these funds when the economic crisis started. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if you saw how much money was invested in that, you'd see how small that was. However, a billion and a half left. On the other hand, a colleague and a colleague, why did Podravka get in trouble? So when the economic crisis started, she had some stock to stock up on some loans and started to drop the value of the loan. It's just that whoever gave the money said I don't want your stock anymore, you give me that difference between the shares and what they were worth today, you pay me. So our funds... We just don't have to be aware of it, and not to say it's not just to invest money and it's all waiting like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why certain provisions of this law, above all control, are very important for people who will be at the head of these funds, and even for that reason I say I don't want to compromise on the percentages where it can be invested with good faith that those who suggested that they did make a good calculation. And the other thing is, monetization of highways and pension funds. It's not good when you pay for everything from the same mangers. These are still unfortunately the same mangers no matter how much you tell me that's the case and that's not the case. And that's why I think, that's my opinion, and that's what offered me the most that the funds didn't exactly break down to criticise this law, obviously their provisions are good, I think Mr. Minister maybe it took a little bit more time for this whole thing to say well forgive me on the expression... That maybe all together without a left, right, middle, this one, the other side we bring something that'll be good because I say eventually if we make a mistake tomorrow we'll all pay for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We just can't get away from it. And that's why I've replicated my colleague, Schamper. Whether it was a mistake or not, but I say a million exiles, war, occupied state, what happened. However, don't forget that at very difficult times when Croatia was to recover economically we, with 15 billion still paid back to the pensioners and what Mr. Minister confirmed on a continuous basis almost a billion kunas cost us those 6% plus 100 kunas that was introduced to pay back the debt to the pensioners. So when you take that as being introduced in 2005, and that amount came to a billion kuna somewhere in 2009, then when you add those 15 billion, you'll see that it's now more than 20 billion. Just one more sentence, please. That's why colleagues and colleagues, if they make a mistake here, could cost us a lot of money in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60588	Replica, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60589	Well, here's my colleague Shucker, and I'm glad that after 15 years, here's what we said was practically, although that's compensation, but there's something else I'd like to say. That's what you said there are four kinds of pensions. I agree that practically every law that we make that generation is subject to some other conditions of retirement, and I think that we have much worse and fast-formed laws that don't care whether the next generation is going to be at that level because we know more or less that any reform is, and so this pension is more restrictive and it's not going to get any better. As an example, I would like to quote in the current current current Pension Insurance Act that is the accounting period. We've always claimed, I've been given the opinion of a judge who works in the working group for that law recently, and we've said that the accounting period is three years higher every year. So, '99. the years of retirement were the 10 best years, 2009 after 40 years. Under one law, this is one major inequality, and as a result, it was an add-on law of 4% to 27%. Thus, the law passed that we reduced the differences between old and new pensioners, but the main objective of the law was to equalise the pensions of new pensioners to each other because for the same internship, for the same salary, for the same year of life, the one who left in '99. He had 2,500 pensions a year, and that 10 years later, 2,000 because he was going into his entire working life.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60590	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60591	So that's why smart people don't do the mini reform pension system, or make a reform or draw a line and say from tomorrow it goes like this because if it's what we did, so the coalition government in 2002 and we in 2005, then this is what we're talking about right now. Because you simply can't people who in different political systems, in different economies, have been paid in war terms from some 100, 150 marks to 2,000 marks of Markovic's two years and have fallen back to 150 marks in the war years of Croatia and have come to some average of 300, 400 marks and then retired and now you're going to tell me that it's a fair pension. That's just impossible. The second thing, we all forget it was that capital fund or what it's called was shares of very valuable shares of Croatian companies. Where and how it ended I would not want to talk about it, and this capital fund was founded precisely because those who did not pay pensions in the pension system that these shares improved the standard of the most vulnerable pensioners. However, I would also like to say, at the beginning of the crisis in 2009, when I took as my right as the Minister of Finance at the time to propose that it would be wise to abolish this second pillar of pension and that all pensioners who went to future times until the pension reform in Croatia was made according to all the same rules at that time at that fund was around 40 billion kuna to reduce the public debt of the Republic of Croatia by 40 billion and another thing to secure 4.5.5 billion new revenues each year, so much less deficit and less debt needs. I almost got crucified by these 4-fund owners. Why? Well, if you were to get 200 million a year to run, and now there's some kind of silly finance minister out there trying to take it and you'd be shooting at him from all the guns. Maybe it would have been the smartest thing to do if we'd done it then.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60592	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60593	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the respected colleague Shuker cannot agree with you in terms of thinking, i.e. the position that you consider that Croatian bonds are good, positive, or safe for investment, and what is read is 9 which is the amendment that the Law on Mandatory Pension Insurance indicates that both the opposition at this time and the position have similar views on both security and risk and investment. And once again, I would like to stress that the work of HANFA is extremely, extremely important and that, independently of control from our side of control, citizens, control of parliamentary representatives and government is the key to the HANFA that has to do the job in terms of supervision of pension funds, and in this way I believe that not only does this contribution that we always want to make better that investment will be of sufficient quality and on the other hand safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60594	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60595	Gjurkovic, given that I was able to secure the debt to the pensioners, given that I was able to implement a decision on the inclusion of 6% plus 100 kuna on the ground, and since I was able to count on how much I should pay between new and old pensioners and when I add it all together, when I see how much it costs the Croatian state I simply cannot discuss in this law that I am not doubting the good intentions, that everything is good, but by warning that it can be as well and therefore I hope that we will get some more information from the ministry until the second reading although the second reading can be in seven, eight days. But I repeat my colleagues and colleagues at the moment when you come to the stock market, you're on the market, this can happen, and Croatian companies just look at how many shares they have and where there's now some major stock trade to get some kind of pension fund in with 50 or 100 million. They're unfortunately convicted of government bonds, some kind of business bank mess, and that's it. Unfortunately, we do not have a financial market until the new 10.15.20 quality companies that will be worth several billion kunas appear and when trading with their shares begins, when certain cities or companies for certain infrastructure projects that will apparently bring in securities, then we will see but today is still a far cheaper loan than the bonds issued for some amount of 15 or 20 million kuna. It's also a fact, according to which we could invest these funds is tight but I repeat we have bad experience and let's not just let it happen again because I'm saying it's a fear of being with this second pillar of pension and really looking at the state budget now I don't see in the next five or seven years that the state will allow itself the power to free itself of five billion incomes for the first pillar of retirement and that the level of pension remains this way and that those funds should be directed towards the second pillar of retirement, I think that Minister Linic and what little hair on his head would jump to the sky.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60596	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60597	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, it's true. Here today you can see how much important matter there is and a representative in the debate, here's all seven of them, as far as I can see. And I'm because I'm not an expert in this matter, and I'm not an economic expert, so I called a legal lawyer from the district office in Osijek and asked around. He said, Boro, I have nothing to say to you about this bill except to re-absorb that non-retirement I told you earlier, right? He even gave me names that don't fall but it doesn't matter. But what you yourself said was that the crisis had hit the world's economics, that it had reached Croatia, of course, not to say even more and to a greater extent, and as a member of this second pillar of the second pillar, I received in the first year after enrolling in that second pillar, like those who were calling for loans in Swiss, did I receive reports, and I received reports of the increase in my share there in that second column. After a few years there were no more of these reports. I don't know what happened, and then I really doubt it, I don't doubt it, but it's actually confirmed what you said yourself that it happened that we lost maybe about a billion and a half kuna in those movements, investments, etc. About this, the relationship between the monetization of Croatian highways and these pension funds, our highways, our money can be used elsewhere, but it might be worth thinking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60598	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60599	Our colleague Grubisic, we say that politics does not manage well and that is why Croatia's highways should be monetized. Who says that tomorrow those who come tomorrow will manage better and will guarantee a contribution for future Croatian pensioners. Therefore, I repeat what I said and tonight several times, each investment on the stock market is risky. The second pillar is therefore very risky and the minister said well, a, b, c high risk high yield and one I think is a small risk small contribution. It's the same story in the developed countries of Western Europe, you have city banks that are the most risky but give you the highest interest, you have some cantonal or whatever banks are a little less risky and you have a little more interest and you have state banks that are least risky but you get the lowest interest, so the same story, go ahead. So, the same story as on the stock market. Therefore, we are simply entering a new sphere of risk but the only question is whether we are ready for this given the large number of pensioners, the terrible bad ratio of employees and pensioners, to a terriblely bad one to say the age of those who are retired, because, unfortunately, there are a lot of people in retirement for 20, 30 years, and when all of this is summed up, then I say not doubting the bad intentions of the law but all of these things we have to have in mind because we don't bring this series of laws into a system that doesn't exist, we bring into a system that's burdened with the problems of applying this. So I'm opening up options for you. No one's against it, but I repeat some things still need to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60600	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Ljiljana Cvetovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60601	Dear vice president, respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Under the proposal of the Pension Insurance Companies Act, the Pension Rent Programme is, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2(5), a voluntary pension programme under which the employer concludes with the pension insurance company of ugorjes on the payment of pension funds, which ensures for his worker the life or temporary payment of the agreed amount for long-term provision of additional income after his retirement. Furthermore, under Article 120(1) of the Law, the amount of the pension rent is determined on the basis of the contracted and paid funds reduced for the remuneration of the company in view of the years of life of the beneficiary of the pension. The contracted period of payment, the form of payment and other elements of the actuarial calculations and the same constitutes a mandatory part of the pension contract. This provision, as well as other provisions of the proposal, does not contain any restrictions on the determination of the total amount to be paid to the pension, insurance company. And not with regard to the amount of pension income to be paid to the user in the future. Which suggests that possible payments are unlimited to the name of the rent. It is also possible to reduce the payment of the pension rent within 5 years with a one-time payment of 30% of the agreed amount. This proposal opens up a legal possibility, an unlimited amount of funds for the benefit of an individual. For example, a manager in private and public companies on behalf of a pension income exempt from taxes. And the 2nd is legalizing the possibility of uninterrupted withdrawal of money from business entities. This is money laundering that will be made legally within 5 years with the start of payment of 50 years of life and with a one-time payment of 30% of the total amount paid. And at the current moment when the Ministry of Finance shuts down all kinds of incentives. It should certainly be noted that the pension income as an institute has long existed in life insurance under the asset insurance system and the person concerned will, on the one hand, be violated by the introduction of the Institute into the pension system and, on the other hand, open up a concern for the insurance companies and persons in respect of the implementation of their pension schemes. Finally, the adjustment of the pension rent by another law outside the Insurance Act is contrary to the legal order and constitutional principle of the rule of law. It follows from all the above that the pension rent, as proposed here, cannot form part of this bill and that the provisions on it in the proposal should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60602	Thank you very much, dear colleague. And colleague Zeljko Shemper, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60603	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal shall contain the same provisions as the applicable law on compulsory insurance pensions of Article 112, 114. These provisions enable a member of the fund to submit, in a retired manner, to his pension beyond possible later obligations to members of his family. This is contrary to the nature and purpose of compulsory pension insurance and limits the rights of those family members in relation to the scope of protection under the Pension Insurance Act. It is provisions, forms of pensions in the work of individual and joint pensions as well as pensions with a guaranteed period, and in particular provisions on the appointment of users. Since pensions under compulsory pension insurance and in order to ensure that compulsory pension insurance grants on the basis of individual capitalised savings provide the same scope of protection for users of the rights applicable under the Pension Insurance Act. It is necessary to review those provisions, in particular the provisions on the appointment of users and to comply with that law. This will correct what has been wrongly done in the applicable law. Voluntary pensions, there is an even greater freedom to negotiate pensions so that life-long retirement, temporary retirement, variable pensions, partial one-off payments and other types of pensions can be offered in accordance with the pension programme in Article 115 of the Law proposal. However, this is about pension insurance rather than insurance for individuals who have their own policy. For this reason, in this part of the bill, we propose to review, i.e. to raise the proposed minimum age limit for an age pension of 50 years. Because at that age, there has not yet been a risk of age, and in the meantime there has been a significant extension of the life span and thus the duration of the use of the pension. In fact, in capitalised insurance by early retirement there is a smaller total amount in the personal account and a longer period of pension use. This results in a significantly lower rate of pension paid and thus a smaller range of the material and social security of the users. Reassess or remove provisions on possible one-time payment up to 30% of the total amount from the personal account of the fund member. This reduction in the amount of pensions available for nearly 1/3 reduces the proportion of future pensions. It is also necessary to review or remove the provision on the possibility of contracting a shortened pension payment period from voluntary retirement insurance up to 5 years. This also reduces the duration of the additional material and social uncertainty of the pensioners. All that we have stated here is appropriate to life insurance, not pension insurance, whose purpose is to provide additional material and social security to users when they withdraw from the world of work. It is therefore necessary to review and regulate those provisions of the bill in accordance with the nature and purpose of the pension system. As regards the purchase of a pension, it is in the proposed form of a special legislative proposal from the Croatian Party of Retired Persons in the Croatian Parliament in the final legislative procedure. First of all, the collection of pensions, as well as the types of severances paid by monthly meals, falls within the scope of work rather than the pension system and is not clear within the legislative framework of that system. This stems from its content, its nature and its purpose as set out in the text of the final proposal for a life-delivery law, i.e. the purchase of a pension from which the content of the provisions on the purchase of a pension is taken up in this draft law on pension insurance companies. With regard to the view of regulating the legal system, it is inappropriate and inappropriate to edit the same institute with two or more legal frameworks and to repeat the legal provisions of the same content. This would be the same as if two income tax laws were passed so that the Tax Administration or the taxpayer chose which law would apply. In the same way as in the final proposal for a life-delivery law, that is to say, a serious violation of the legal system is contrary to the constitutional principle of the rule of law set out in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I also want to point out here the normative confusion, that is, the inconsistencies of the legislator of this bill. From the assessment of the situation as well as from the legal text offered, it is doubtless that contributions from capitalised pension insurance in the Republic of Croatia are shaped, paid and realised by applying the principle of defined contributions. On the other hand, the purchase of a pension is based on the combination of the principle of defined contributions and defined contributions, which is in line with the principle of defined contributions on which pension insurance is based, based on individual capitalised savings in the Republic of Croatia. If it is added that the Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Pension Funds prohibits the provision of a pension programme with defined duties in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, Article 266 then it is clear that the addition of pensions as defined may be offered as a pension programme at all. That is another reason for removing pensions from the draft of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60604	Thank you very much. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60605	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you're talking about reviewing certain items of these laws, and I'm asking you, so I who are paying in the second pension column, not you, and who might want to pay in the third volunteer, why I would not decide where and how I would use those funds or whom I would direct. So you're limiting my individual freedoms. And secondly, when it comes to the return of that part of the pension that my colleague Schucker's been discussing, then when it was a one-time discount, you didn't object, and now you're rebelling when it's a 30% one-time discount.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60606	Mr. Miranda Mrsic's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60607	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm glad that the matter itself is extremely complicated and can be seen by the number of debaters, but it was expected because this part on the one hand is extremely professional and on the other hand is related to a particular problem, so there is an expected debate on these three laws. When we talk about the separation in the second pension column, it is true that by about 2010, according to the pension system projection, approximately 9% should have been allocated to the second pension column. The reform started in 2002, and it should have continued. It didn't go in any other direction, and now we're here, we are. The funds were allocated to another pension column. They are invested in certain bonds, in shares and are very, so pension funds are important investors on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. And we can say that the Zagreb Stock Exchange depends largely on pension funds. What should be predicted is that we need to increase the isolation of the second pension pillar, but this separation for the second pension column should be related to three things, which is the development of the capital market in Croatia, the development of the labour market in Croatia. Somewhere 2 million employees in Croatia. So we must strive to do so, and we must strive for the growth of gross domestic product. Without this separation in the second pension column, we will not have room to increase the isolation of the second pension column. According to our projections we've been doing, three things are supposed to happen, and so it's not a promise, it's a projection. So when you're doing a pension system, then you're doing a projection of his development with premises and with the data you have and how you predict it. So we have to get to 7% separation in the second pension column. On the other hand, no matter how painful it may be, we need to increase the second pension column for the supplement we put in the first pension column, from 6% to 27%. So it's a burden waiting for us but it will be able to be feasible when GDP is clearly growing and the economy is developing. So without it, it won't be possible to further develop a second pension stake, and that's what we're all trying to do. So, we all strive for Croatia to move forward, to develop Croatia and with this development Croatia is going and this part that is related to pension reform. Therefore, the return of the allowance to the second pension column and the increase of the detachment to the second pension column. These are the premiums that are important to get to the goal we set, which is that pensions from the first and second pension pillars are about 60% of the salary, and that's real. That's absolutely feasible. And when we talk about the development of the pension system, then we should also base it on development rather than stagnation or vice versa. Because Croatia will move, Croatia's GDP will grow, we will hire people. Therefore, these are the premises on which we build the very development of the pension system. Of course it's important control, so control is something that's highly developed in these bill templates, HANFA is one of the mechanisms, Parliament is the other. So what I will probably need in the next year when there are fund reports for 2013, it simply connects to the HANFA report and you simply have both sides. So you have a report from the fund, but you also have a report from HANFA who is the regulator and she's in charge of overseeing the funds themselves. The easiest would be, and any finance minister would support, take the second pillar, transfer to the first pillar, solve the finance minister's problems for his term, put his finger in his ear, and then whoever comes behind him and who comes in 15 years will mention why it happened. So we are responsible for young generations who will receive pensions that are now in the labour market and for them we must set up a system from which they will be able to obtain decent pensions. Therefore, other than the second pension pillar, the third pension pillar should be developed, voluntary savings, new forms of voluntary savings, and that is what we have made possible by these proposals of the law, we have allowed things to develop. We hope that this dispersion of portfolio A, B and C will dynamic investment in the Republic of Croatia, that we will dynamic the investment of funds in our companies. It is clear that there will remain one large part that will be linked to the investment of funds in government bonds. And speaking of fashions, so fashion is also an investment fund. At the moment when the funds come into a retirement insurance company, when they calculate your pension, those funds that are inside will continue to fertilize, so they will continue to invest, they will not stand there on the account, and on the other hand the modes should ensure that when we are calculated that you will get a pension so much and so much, that until the end of your life you have and you can enjoy that pension. On the other hand, when we talk about these two new products, let me point out that we have now had the possibility of one-time payment in a pension insurance company and, on the basis of that, getting part of the pension. Pensions and pensions are two institutes that when we look at the financial side are exactly the same as what comes from the mandatory pension funds themselves, because the pension fund will also be your assets that are on your account at some point when you go into retirement transfer to fashion and therefore your pension will be calculated and you will enjoy that pension for the rest of your life. In addition, someone will single out the same amount, invest in a pension insurance company, and you will get that pension allowance. When we talk about a pension rent the same story, someone's going to pay you in cash and they're going to be able to pay you a rent. I note that it is not true that this will be used to pay bonuses to managers because by adopting this law, the Ministry of Finance will determine what is the tax minimum below which there is no tax burden, and above which the pension income will be taxed and there I see no problems. What's different from perhaps some other legal proposals that also treat this problem is that here when we talk about core capital, the mod is guaranteed by 22.8 million kunas of underlying capital and on the other hand when we talk about protecting someone who signs a contract with a pension, a one-time payment, a rent or a pension payment, then those protections are more important. Besides, the contract itself between the one who enjoys retirement, the one who pays his pension. Other things are also solved here so that security is guaranteed for the very payment of pensions from fashions. I hope that given that there have been no major objections, if there are more objections until the second reading we will consider the remarks and respect them if they are acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60608	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill's proposals tomorrow, most likely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60609	Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, first reading, P.Z. No. 526. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Pension Funds 2 is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. The proposed conclusion was accepted by 76 votes in favour, 4 against and 14 abstentions. We will now interrupt the session, continue it on Tuesday 3 December with a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads with a final draft of the law. And I remind the members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So like this, we interrupt the session. We will continue on Tuesday at 9.30 a.m. on the agenda of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads with a final draft of the law, followed by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways with the final draft law. I now remind the members of the Constitutional Committee that they should attend the scheduled session. Thank you. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.39 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60786	And as we agreed to discuss - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Free Zones Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 528 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Mr Drazen Pross. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60787	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. You therefore have before you a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Free Zones with a final proposal for a law, so a law governing free zones, free zones management and conditions for the exercise of economic activity in free zones. Allow me a few words that are related to today's free zone system and a few key data. The free zones system in the Republic of Croatia is therefore regulated by this Law on Free Zones, which dates back to 1996, as well as amendments and additions to this law from 2005, 2008. Today in the Republic of Croatia there are 14 free zones in which 234 companies operate as users and these are mostly small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with an average of 34 employees, with a high share of exports in the total income of 72.5% and employ just over 7 900 employees. The number of users thus increased 3% compared to 2011, so the total income in 2012 was 5.7 billion kuna, so 2.3% higher than in the year before. Get 649.5 million kuna, so 7.5% higher compared to 2011. The main reason for the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act is its full compliance with the applicable customs regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Equalisation of the operating conditions in free zones with the terms and conditions of the common market in the European Union. Harmonisation with changes to the state administration system, so I am talking about the establishment of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts as the competent Ministry of Free Zones, all in order to facilitate the business of beneficiaries of concessions and users of free zones in the Republic of Croatia, and after Croatia's accession to the EU. Let us highlight the basic areas that are governed by this law. Above all, the free zone system in the Republic of Croatia is fully harmonised with the conditions of operation on the EU common market in terms of customs and tax treatment. Thereafter, it is possible to extend the existing concessions for free zones in the Republic of Croatia, and as far as this law has not been possible. The relationship between the concession provider and the beneficiary of the free zone concession is improved. It continues to allow the use of tax benefits for existing users of free zones until 1.01.2017 as well as the use of all promotional measures for investment in free zones for both existing and new users of free zones. VAT payments shall be released on exportation of goods, i.e. services outside the EU area. Let us explain this in more detail. Following these amendments and amendments to the laws, it is proposed to implement a harmonisation of jurisdiction and the name of the authorities of the state administration in accordance with the applicable rules governing their jurisdiction and to eliminate administrative difficulties arising from the lack of compliance of titles and work in the existing legislative framework. Therefore, this coordination also facilitates the business of users of concessions and users of free zones but, of course, it is in the interest of potential investors, especially from third countries that are interested in business in free zones. These amendments and additions also propose to improve the relationship between the concession provider and the beneficiary of the concession for free zones through a more detailed timetable for the delivery of documents and the way and time limits for payment of concession fees, which will also be further regulated by the sublegal regulation, thus by the Regulation, which shall be adopted by the Minister responsible for entrepreneurship and crafts and agreed by the Minister of Finance. It is also necessary to mention that data on the business of users of free zones are collected for the purpose of drawing up annual reports on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia, which is submitted once a year to the Croatian Parliament, so first of all to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of course to the Croatian Parliament. And on this occasion here I am using this opportunity to actually announce that these days, probably next week, we will also discuss the 2011 and 2012 Free Zones Management Report at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. So, the first such report made since the day of entry into force of the Law on Free Zones since 1996. Furthermore, amendments and additions propose to harmonise the provisions of the law in that part relating to customs supervision of accommodation by importing goods from a free zone and with the applicable customs regulations in the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, the existing legal framework for free zones does not provide for the possibility of extending the concession for free zones as well as foreclosure of concessions during a period specified in the concession decision. And that is why these amendments and additions to the law introduce the possibility of extending the concession at the request of the founders of the zone but also the waiver of concessions for free zones. These possibilities for extensions of concessions or deductions are proposed in order to establish a legal basis for the handling of the concessionr for free zones based on the economic interest of the founder, i.e. the beneficiary of the concession, as well as the user of the free zones. As concessions for free zones are generally given for 25 years, and during that period of course there is also a real possibility of change and economic interest as well as conditions of business in free zones. Let me finally point out once again that the adoption of this law allows for the continuation of business in free zones after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU in accordance with the EU acquis and, of course, with the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, first and foremost of all of the economic interest of the founder, i.e. the beneficiary of concessions for free zones as well as users of free zones, proposes the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60788	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60789	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we have the amendments and additions to the 2008 law and in fact I think that these amendments and additions are acceptable since these are about things that relate to and compliance with the newly created situation when one ministry has practically divided into two, these are the last articles. What I started out with was a little bit of a discussion of this part of Article 1 concerning the extension of the concession in cases where 50% of profits were achieved from operating outside the Republic of Croatia, considering the fact that according to the VAT Act and, among other things, the interpretation of free zones that free zones are outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, we are also aware that there could have been some abuses in some situations, that certain users of free zones under the benefits of free zones have also achieved these benefits. In this part, I think that the situation in our 13 currently existing zones in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in that part and onland but also in the coastal part has not fully fulfilled their purpose and original purpose, which is to address the issue of unemployment, increase and transport, export production and all other intended because unfortunately for the time being, all these zones are still under-fulfilled in our area. What led me to this law and then to the reasoning and remarks that were delivered was the principled observation given by the port of Rijeka and I think that the rest of the Ministry of Economy and the whole of our government and all of us together had to think in a way to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia in terms of the competitiveness of all other countries in our closer and further environment. Here I primarily think of this observation by the port of Rijeka regarding the benefits that are achieved at the port of Kopar given by Slovenia. They are these benefits because, under the notion of an economic zone, they have achieved so far and are essentially a real competitor and I am at this moment the only biggest, our largest and strongest port of Rijeka and I think that the ministry should work hard enough here, the Rijeka port is given some more benefits, and that sense which is certainly also a further brake of development, and our largest port certainly and flat line, and this part of the still lacks traffic connections so that in the coming years this section will have to be run because the railway line, regardless of the highway and all this that has been built in our area over the past years, primarily here I mean the Rijeka-Zagreb highway and the further link to Slovenia and Western Europe, can't replace the railway track in this sense in tone, the gross tonnes that can be derived from the Rijeka pool which are still much smaller than they were before the war and the Pletollian area. In any case, the legal solutions, the proposals that are made here, I welcome in Article 4 and this part where deadlines are defined in which the concessionary must pay all the amounts, although if you look at the Ministry's report sent to the Government, still all of our zones in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia did not get the result that probably should be a priority for all of us not only to fill the state budget but also to open new jobs primarily to production but certainly there were 227 users with 7931 employees in 2012. In today's situation and when practically every day our fellow citizens are left without their jobs, it is not insignificant, but it is necessary to look at all the other things that apply to this part. In Article 7, the Assistant Minister may be able to explain it a little bit, since there could be some different interpretations, which means if the user did not start working in 90 days from the day of the implementation of the solution referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article in Article 22(3) which is amended, because the concession contract is one, the commission and all those who give conditions to the user of the zone which he must meet in that part of the building, the equipment to be able to begin with, how many other rules he must comply with during the execution of this solution are cut off from those 90 days or are there to meet. I repeat these 50% in Article 1 that I have mentioned, and in some way I understand it in that sense to prevent those who are not going to achieve most of their work from entering the industrial zone from getting further rich, to get out, whether that cut is 50%, whether it must be just 50% or from thinking that some correction might be made in that part, but in any case it is good to fence ourselves, to protect ourselves in such a way that whoever enters the free zone uses all those benefits then must also perform that original purpose and function of the free zone itself. Articles 15, 16 and this further section relating to the very changes in terms of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is now being replaced by the words with the ministries responsible for entrepreneurship and crafts. It's understandable in itself, and that would be the short part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60790	Thank you too, colleague. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60791	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. I didn't mean to speak in these late hours since we've been in discussions for almost nine hours. But since I listened well and carefully to Mr. Deputy Minister's statement and then consulted and inquired about the code, here at the present assistant minister's office, what exactly is this really about? 14 free zones in the Republic of Croatia, one of them is also in Slavonski Brod, the free zone "Djuro Djakovic", to be clear, and that is why I wanted to speak. So, since '96. the years were by decision, i.e. the Free Zones Act was voted by the Croatian Parliament in May '96. and here is St. Ante June 13, '96. The years were actually published in "The People's News" and started this work in the free zones. It's been 17 years since then. 17 years of age, the Croatian Parliament has not received a report, not a single report. What happens, as they do business, is they do business positively, how many entities there are, so the users of the free zones, and how they cooperate and how they interact with the units of local self-government they exist in. So the port of Rijeka, etc., Slavonski Brod, in the circle of Đuro Đaković factory is also a free zone of Đuro Đaković. Later she came here as part of a note and customs administration that was once exclusively in Osijek, now she is, so it wasn't worth it, the goods that enter the free zone you have to go to Osijek or I don't know where. Now it's right next to each other. But there's one problem, and I have to tell you that while you're here, I'd like to remind you. Access route of 600 meters with so-called. fast roads that go through Slavonski Brod are a problem and local self-government and state. So one flow of goods is very, very difficult because the entire entrance and exit of free zones "Djuro Djakovic" goes through half the city. And you have half an hour as from Zagreb until Ivanje river at least half an hour to truck or anything in and out of the free zone "Đuro Đaković", which by chance remained in the city centre. So, half the city is across the highway and the railroad and half is up to Sava. So formerly, Djuro Djakovic, who was on the city's periphery, remained in the city's centre by expanding. And the free zone of Djuro Djakovic. I must say that, although at the County Assembly and the City Council of Slavonski Brod, we receive regular annual reports on the work of the free zone "Djuro Djakovic". So, at least that's where those local leaders and council members, the assembly in the county assembly have certain knowledge and free zone "Djuro Djakovic" lately, in the last few years has been acting positively and she has said in plus. What is interesting is apart from this not reporting of the Croatian Parliament, and therefore with curiosity and great interest I await and expect at least this report for these two years, 2011, I am very interested in 2012. Namely, I am interested in comparing and comparing the results and work of all 14 zones, and then I can also assess the work of our Slavonska Brod zone, the free zone "Djuro Djakovic". It is true that Article 7 said, now to move on to the law itself, so the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts is therefore responsible for these zones, so to put it into one frame of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. Secondly, those who already use the concession so that they already exist there must again, so apply for a new period of 3 years, so until 2017. And now another question that I forgot to ask, but after my debate, I hope that I will be answered. So what after 1.1.2017? What's gonna happen? Is there any further extensions or stops at all,... These conditions that have so far ruled in free zones cease to apply? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In view of the accession of the European Union to the conditions of the Directive and all other provisions laid down by the European Union for this type of business in free zones. What is fundamental is that it is also positive that 50% of the total income from business is achieved by customers outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That means doing business with abroad. And that's what actually contributes to exporting, somewhat and employment even though we know that in those zones everything is not big, but as they say grain per grain of cake, brick by brick by palace. Thus, this work in free zones should not be underestimated even the number of employees in those free zones should not be underestimated. And the results, statistics I hope to see on the report that will end this 10th session of the Croatian Parliament, the session, that we will therefore see and hope to come to the agenda of this session because I am really interested in seeing comparative data for all 14 zones and what they mean and bring to the units primarily regional, so the county in which they are located. Therefore, we are going back to Article 7 and he is stuck with me too... if the beneficiary of the concession does not start operating the zone within 90 days of the day of the implementation of the solution referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article loses all the rights set out in that solution, and in that paragraph 1, so as far as I see what is main, it is 50% that total income in business, from business outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. About the other articles Mr. Klaric said everything nicely, so I wouldn't repeat myself. Anyway, since for the first time in the light of day, free zones actually come out of their bunker where they were 17 years old, I'm going to support this legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60792	Thank you. Do you want Deputy Minister final? Drazen Pross, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60793	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let me finally just have an answer to Mr. Klaric, the esteemed representative, Mr. Grubisic, perhaps a brief clarification. When we talked about the Institute of Economic Zone, it was something that you set an example for Slovenia, and the Croatian legislation does not know the Institute of Economic Zone. In the Republic of Croatia all investments in free zones are eligible for the application of the Investment Encouragement Act and the improvement of the investment environment. When we talk about Article 7 maybe once again, all the documents must be absolutely clean before we get our solution, and there is really no reason not to start working within those 90 days. Our experience and experience of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts is actually that everything is solved within 80 days. Thank you very much. ... Djuro Djakovic is in 2026. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And let me just say that, you will have indeed next week's opportunity to really get reports very detailed, so not only about the free zone Đuro Đaković but really one quality comparison with all the free zones in Croatia, period 2011-2012. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60794	Thank you very much. Tomislav Klaric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60795	Maybe we didn't understand each other. I did mention that term since the port administration, or Luka Rijeka, made that observation. I am aware that it cannot enter this law, but I have suggested that you consider in the future how to enable Luci Rijeka and Đuri Djakovic and all other users of these free zones, benefits similar to those in our environment to be even more competitive for all others. And something else fell into my eye, tied in this diet in the law is prescribed where areas of the zone are determined by cadastrian particles or by points on the coast of the sea in the port pools. I think a more convenient formulation would be since the number of zones are already defined in the Republic of Croatia, that space-plans are already located in both regional spatial plans and all of ours, that this formulation in Article 2 enters the area of the zone in the land area covered by cadastral particles. Instead of these cadastrian particles, a simple formulation of... zone in the land area, covered by spatial and plan documentation, enters into the sea area. This simplifies, and especially from this part of what we still have in the Republic of Croatia, a sufficiently unsettled cadastre, and perhaps by what law would be finally such a zone declared to be of the interest of the Republic of Croatia that I proposed in the last amendment so that it could be easier to rule out and move towards the realisation of the zones themselves. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60796	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, I didn't understand what you wanted. ... The replica was presented by the Deputy Minister. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow. Tomorrow, at 9.30 p.m., we will begin with the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation No. 850/2004 on persistent organic pollutants. Thank you very much. Today, however, we end in a slightly normal time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60797	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Free Zones Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 528. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Mr. Drazen Pross to declare himself on the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Amendment one to Articles 1 and 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60798	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60799	Sustained? It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment two to Article 15?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60800	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-28-0.u60801	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? The result? The law was passed by 94 votes and 1 abstention. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Damir Cain, go ahead.
