ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33366	Dear Mr. President, given the frequent remarks, I would like to say a great deal of concern that we receive on a daily basis both in letters and in oral form from our citizens in the area of several units of local self-government, as regards the conduct of the Police in view of the implementation of the House Act recently adopted, we are looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33367	All right. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I determine it. More? Here's your Honorable representative, Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33368	On behalf of the SDP club, I'm also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33369	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club? On behalf of the HDSSB? I'm setting a 10-minute break. We'll continue at 9.45. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] It's up to the representatives' clubs who asked for a break. Now it's the HDZ club and the respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33371	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In mid-December of last year, so 3 months ago, Parliament passed a residence law. After that, the Housing Act as one of the basic rules that should serve to edit the voters list in order to remove any doubts about the regularity of the choices ahead. At the same time, only 4 months before the local elections were held, and even slightly less elections for the European Parliament have been passed by laws governing the issue of these elections. At that time, by passing these laws, we warned of several things, one of them was that it was a good parliamentary practice that in a year before the elections were held, the electoral legislation did not change, but the ruling majority disobeyed those arguments and voted in favour of the laws. At the same time, we also talked about the problems of the House Law. The residence law is a law that should regulate rights, i.e. the issue of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have the right to choose and be elected and those who should lose because of certain circumstances. At the time, we said that the solutions proposed in the House Law were not good solutions and would lead to exactly what happened three months later. The residence law gave authority to the Ministry of the Interior that, through its police administrations or stations, I would have to quote the fact that a certain person does not live at the address of the registered residence, that he has the right to delete it by official duty from that record. In addition, one of the major objections that we had at the time was the fact that citizens who happen to be removed from the residence records by the Ministry of the Interior and thus from the list of voters are not allowed the right to appeal, but are referred to as a complaint to the Administrative Court, i.e. the Administrative Dispute. It happened exactly what we were afraid of, which is the fact that today from various parts of our country, especially from local self-government border units bordering the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we get complaints from people that they have to be in their homes 24 hours a day, at their addresses because they happen to have occasional police patrols coming to their addresses, asking if these people are in or out of that address, and if they don't find them at the address, they're deleted from the residence records. In fact, not only do they come to examine all the facilities on their own, they often get rounded lists of people from the list of voters, which is, among other things, the abuse of the law and thus delete people from their residence who are legally registered in the Republic of Croatia. And that's just one part of the problem. At the same time as such controls are carried out in Vrgorec, no one has heard and no one knows that such controls are carried out in the City of Zagreb, which is also suspected that there are people who have registered residence without really staying here. But more than that, and the most significant question is who is bothered today by the City of Vukovar and why, for example, where the population of Vukovar has insisted that the census be repeated by claiming that it is not true and that those who are registered with their residence in Vukovar do not live there, there such controls are not done. This is the continuation of the ruling party's policy, which wants to do something before the elections that will call into question the legality of holding these elections. And that is why we ask for the Home Secretary to appear in this House and explain the way and methods used by the Ministry to determine the residence of our citizens. We do not think that without it we should continue to hold this debate but we are asking that it appear in parliament and give an explanation of these issues. It seems to us that Mr. Ostojić left the government unfortunately to blame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33372	Thank you very much. The next is the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia and the esteemed representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33373	First of all, it's important to say that the legality of the election has not been questioned at all, and I mean, I don't think, but I'm convinced that it's too heavy, too heavy an absolute assessment. The Croatian Parliament passed the Law on residence as well as the Law on the List of Voters and, accordingly, the Ministry of Interior is acting by the basis of the law adopted in the Croatian Parliament. It is also a fact that it is public knowledge in the Croatian public that for many years we have had completely disorganised relationships and as far as residence is concerned and as far as the voters list is concerned, we are one of the few countries that have more voters on the list than there are residents. And that the question of this credibility is really one thing that we finally have to solve after so many years. We have had various examples that are generally public and generally known, from the vote of the dead to the fact that the manifestly proven manipulations in the elections were and that nothing was done afterwards. It should be reminded the Croatian public that the previous government also went with an initiative to amend or pass a residence law, but probably for certain reasons, the law remained somewhere in the ministry drawer. What is very clear and evident is that, finally after a number of years, a certain order must be introduced into that topic in the residence and in the list of voters, and I am convinced that even Croatian citizens are thinking in such a way, at least their largest majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33374	Thank you very much. Next is the Croatian Labour Club and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33375	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I asked whether these elections will be legal before us and probably those for the European Parliament and local elections. However, I would like to remind you that several elections so far have been illegal and unconstitutional, as the Constitutional Court has read. I think this is just an attempt to pour a little oil on the fire because when it could not have been done everything to put these elections within the law and within constitutional provisions. We all know that the electoral units, for years, decades and something, are actually from the moment they were created unconstitutionally because there are more than 5% of the population, respectively, when all election units are compared. The Constitutional Court was clear about that. There have even been constitutional lawsuits over this illegality, but the Constitutional Court has never responded to these constitutional lawsuits. Therefore, bringing into order the voters' list is certainly appropriate, quite certain that the state cannot be called legal if there are more voters than residents, that it cannot be called the rule of law in which votes are being voted because some parties would have at all costs as many parliamentary deputies as possible. And we think the introduction of order is the right thing to do. However, the same criteria should be applied in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, along with border posts with the BiH and the one in Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33376	Thank you, Your Honor. It is the HDSSB's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33377	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This is a very important question and it is good that we opened this issue two months before the local elections. Discussing the Housing Act at 12. Last month, we highlighted all the illogicalities of the law and these very phenomena that appeared today in Croatia. We talked about what's good and what's not good. We, like the HDSSB Representatives' Club, are certainly in order for voters' lists to be balanced, that voters' lists are so transparent, that they know exactly who they are voting for, which political option, not that laws are passed in such a way that the laws serve to change the voter's will in any area of the Republic of Croatia. This is about Croatian citizens, whether Croatians or Croatian citizens, or Serbs in any territory of Croatia, at any border crossing, at any border. What the Croatian Parliament and us MPs in the Croatian Parliament should do. It's first of all those laws that we brought ourselves. When we discussed the Law on residence and the problems of enrolling voters in certain towns and municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, the truth is that there was a situation that even tens of thousands of voters were listed than there were in some places. And we wanted to settle it through a constructive debate. However, police treatment, repressive methods towards Croatian citizens, Croats and also Croatian Serbian citizens, or any nationality in Croatia, is not good if this happens in a way that is done two months before the elections, that some pompous police measures are announced that the laws of the Republic of Croatia are now being implemented. What we are looking for as a Club of HDSSB Representatives is that all the laws we have passed, including this Law on residence are equally legal for all Croatian citizens and for Croats and Serbs and for Serbs and for all national minorities living in the Republic of Croatia. how that voter who lives in... has the right to vote for whom he will if he really lives in that place if according to the Law on residence and residence there really is a place where the same right should be given to both the Croat and the Serb living in Vukovar. Are we going to stumble again before Croatia enters the EU today on the Vukovar issue? For months and the past 2, 3 months, we have had problems with the inscriptions in Latin and Cyrillic, we have already reopened the wounds of Vukovar, we open up again every time the wounds of Vukovar are difficult to live in Croatia, when we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, need to discuss the difficult life of our citizens, not go back to the past and open the heavy wounds of those who have defended Croatia with their blood and lives. And it would be honorable and fair of the Croatian Parliament that the laws we have passed if we want to clear the lists of voters, if we want Croatian citizens to vote evenly in the places where they live, then we should all work together to make sure that Croatian laws apply equally to all Croatian citizens, whether they are Serbs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33378	Thank you very much. All your demands to all clubs or debates will be addressed to the competent minister and we will see the law implemented. We will now continue to discuss the final proposal of the Nanny Act. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth Milanka Opačić are in line. Here you go. Introduced exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33379	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. This morning, as I was coming to the Parliament, I listened to news on a medium that said around the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth gave way to criticism in Parliament. I think it is high time that the debate in Parliament was particularly the one about the Nanny Act being treated as a constructive and good debate not as any criticism because it is indeed high time for Parliament to be the place in which I thought that otherwise I spoke quite loudly but I see that there is indeed a problem here with this announcement. So, I think it is high time Parliament was treated as a place to discuss the laws and to listen to the arguments that come naturally when they are really good arguments that can fix the law. So we, in the ministry of things, saw the law or debate in the first nanny reading here primarily as a good and constructive debate where we received some remarks and some suggestions from which we and most of us appreciated that the law would really be better than what we had done in the first reading. So this Nanny Act primarily regulates one activity that should be an auxiliary service. I don't know how many times I'd like to repeat that it's neither a private kindergarten nor a substitute for kindergartens that we have in local self-government units. This is a service that can primarily help parents who need to take care of their children. It will also help certain units of local self-government who at the moment have no money to build new kindergarten facilities or to maintain a very expensive system such as kindergarten. So this is an auxiliary tool that can also help local self-government units. On the other hand, this is opening and space for self-employment. I hope this isn't just gonna be some kind of female entrepreneurship. The last time we discussed here was that men can be very good babysitters and that they can take very good care of and care for children. So this is a law that has really been made to ensure that a particular childcare mechanism that has worked so far is provided. And many of us have been guarded by some aunts or grandmothers or someone else who, unfortunately, have been here all these years to say so working on black, have not had that job legalized. I think it's time to put it in certain legal frameworks. And with more aspects, it is primarily important from the point of view of the safety of parents who then know who they give the child to, on the other hand, the security aspect and those who carry out that activity so that they are not simply permanent in fear of whether the inspection will come to their door and ask why they are working on black and, of course, they will be able to pay certain contributions that are once again staked in some days when people expect and deserve a pension. As for the difference between the first reading and the second reading, so after the debate in Parliament, we decided to further prescribe the work carried out by the auxiliary nanny in order to avoid any abuse of the assistant nanny. We've limited the number of children to 12 so that this provision doesn't just happen to be manipulated in some way, 12 children must be employed by two nannies of which one is an auxiliary nanny. We have also defined a provision governing the subsidisation of the activities of the nanny by the local self-government unit as an option, so not as an obligation but as a possibility, which means that each unit of local self-government will be able to decide in accordance with its financial means how much the nanny will finance and in what amount. Some units of local self-government thanks to our timely announcement that this law will nevertheless be passed in this year have provided some initial funds and I expect that very soon after the adoption of this law, here will be the first nanny who has been working and guarding children for years and registering her activity and obtaining support from the local self-government unit. We have more detailedly regulated certain rules because we are entering the EU, so the rules under which the nanny's jobs can also be done according to EU Member States' rules and we have extended the period within which the nannies are obliged to comply with the provisions of this law so that we can really give everyone space enough to comply with this law and to start operating under this law. Here are actually the changes that occurred primarily thanks to discussions at committees and plenary sessions, and I hope that after the adoption of this law, indeed this service will be as much at our parents' service as possible so that we can bring our business and family obligations in line, which is extremely important for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33380	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Prime Minister. Replications have been reported to your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected deputy president of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33381	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, I fully agree with you on your first words that Parliament is the place where laws should be discussed and laws are passed and I am very pleased that your ministry has listened to the remarks that have been made in this House both plenaryly and on the working bodies and introduced certain amendments, not all but certain changes in the law. I think it is a good indication that unfortunately it is interrupted with that practice that unfortunately your government is constantly implementing, and that is regardless of the remarks made in this House, it is rarely insisted on the exact same text or possibly making a couple of cosmetic changes, and it is persistent to know that most hands will vote for anything, it insists on the same law. This law is a good example that can be improved usefully on the basis of parliamentary remarks, so I hope that others in your drawer will finally start to follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33382	Thank you, Your Honor. It is next to the replica of the respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33383	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Madam Minister, I'm glad you respect Parliament and I'm glad you want to help local self-government units. Anyway, that's welcome, but unfortunately I have to deny you that local self-government units are mainly in rural areas on their knees. Amendment to the Income Tax Act knows what happened. Many are unable to achieve their projects, capital projects and the construction of kindergartens and all those who contribute to the quality of life in these rural areas so that these intentions I fear will not come, have not come at a good time. And a special problem, I also want to remind you here with these cuttings of children's rights with developmental difficulties that parents have shown themselves to be. So I want to tell you that you can help in several ways, including the center... which I would like to talk about later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33384	Thank you, too. Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33385	So I didn't mean to react until you mentioned this right cutting, so that one inaccuracy wouldn't go any further because it's the result of superficiality and media reporting, it's not about any cutting, so it's about the rights that have been written down in the Social Care Act for years, so I'm not going to say now, so it's a law that was passed in your time. So for years now, such a decision has been in the Social Care Act, we haven't cut anything, but we're just trying to correct something next year that we find discriminatory because children with multiple damages go to school for four hours that's something that we should encourage because that kind of integration is extremely important to them, and not to give them any more, so we're going to take some of their fees for it. So we kind of punish them for trying to get their kids to go as much as they do to school. So it's not true, we didn't cut anything, I'm asking you, let's just not deal with the truth and spread lies further because that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33386	Thank you very much. The next replica, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33387	Thank you. Here, Madam Minister, this law pushes these nannies into craftsmen. Those older ladies who guard children, one child hour, two, three or five days a day at some time intervals, and the ladies are certainly not and will not become craftsmen, will not be practicing craftsmen, will not be taking accountants and it will not work. This law will lead to two things, first of all that the ladies who have had children will continue to guard them, will not apply because they have no conditions and do not know and cannot and do not want to become craftsmen, have no financial capacity to become them. Another group that will be formed will be entrepreneurs who will report trades and hire the same ladies at different locations and actually create a business nannyship with their employees who will be called a nanny is it possible by law that one person hires more nannies through crafts and that they work for him both as babysitters or as auxiliary nannies. And these people who watch one child a couple of hours a day or once a week, they have no conditions and have no reason to get into a job called crafts and craftsmanship, they certainly won't be. So this law actually does not achieve what you want because you push them into the craft, which is that this activity is actually being supervised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33388	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33389	I don't think you've read the second reading because in the second reading, we've removed that possibility of abuse of this law in any way and of hiring and exploiting anyone, which is what you're talking about. So a craftsman can form a nanny who will take care of a certain number of children, we have maximum limited to 12 precisely because there were objections here that could be misused, so that someone might say only work on employment, not on what is the basis of this law, and that is childcare and childcare. As for those who work a few hours a day, so this is something that will provide and a law that will be found very quickly here in the parliamentary procedure, a law that will prescribe temporary and occasional employment, which means that those who only a few hours will need childcare and those who will do so for a few hours will be able to do so by means of this law, by means of a voucher, to do this job and there is no obstacle there. So what you said just doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33390	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the replicas. Do the rapporteurs of the board, the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take part? I find that not. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev is next. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33391	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. This Nanny Law proposal is a law that will support the Croatian Democratic Community club. Namely, this law, all research and preparation for it, has been done by the former government. In 2010 and 2011, certain measures have also been put in place for the purpose of training persons for this activity. This government proposed a draft bill in its first reading and made a number of remarks and classified it from the opposition benches. Dear Ministers, don't be afraid of this assembly of Parliament's wonders when there are laws in the first, second reading. Some more objections from the opposition benches should be incorporated into that law. However, this law is in the second reading despite the warning of our MPs not showing understanding for children with developmental difficulties and their parents. We warned these children that they needed special care and care and that they could not be pushed into groups of up to five with four more children. So it's a group of five. We know what it's like to take care of a child with developmental difficulties at the same time that he has two and three children who have just walked or a child who has to do homework. This makes it very difficult to work with these children, but it gives great care to the nanny, and surely enough worries do not have any remaining children. Also, the nanny’s fewer children mean less compensation and less income. Who will bear the burden of this funding? The remaining children, their parents, nannies, or parents of children with developmental difficulties. They have enormous costs anyway. The minister says that nothing has worsened their situation, and we know that VAT and orthopedic aid have been introduced since 1 January. And this law shows that despite the numerous warnings of parents with developmental difficulties who even wanted to show that this policy towards people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties is not good, shows that we continue to treat them the same way. At that time, parents sought better social care and the minister promised to change the law that would be by the end of this year. Let's be honest, and let's say how many laws were passed in an emergency procedure in the meantime, and we raised our hands as soon as possible, and now that there are children with developmental difficulties, their parents need to wait a year. In addition, we have the necessary 5 million kunas to be provided with a change of laws. I agree it's not easy to secure money these days. At the same time, however, we are making a decision, I would say a whim in which elections for the European Parliament and local elections will not take place on the same day and 84 million kunas should be provided for it. It's obviously simpler than 5 million kunas for parents and children with developmental difficulties. Dear Minister, you are the most responsible for this socially sensitive category of people. Do they have the right to a dignified life and a just social integration? What this bill did not resolve, and what is extremely important today is the problem of the price of services, financing and the financial viability of carrying out this activity. In fact, the law obliges as we have already heard of carrying out this activity registration of crafts. The question arises how much should be the price of these services in order to keep the nanny at least minimum for life after paying all possible obligations. Did you count on the costs to be taken monthly from pension, health, tax, tax, tax, membership fees to the Chamber of crafts, if there is room in the city center of monumental rent, you also indicate the rent of space. With the space comes the fees and costs of electricity, water, gas, municipal fees, water charges. Of course, everything at a higher price because it's the places where you make money. And then the question is, who are we passing this law for? Who are these parents who will be able to pay the price of this service? Dear Ministers, you as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy probably know that today 76% of our citizens have so little income that they can't even cover basic living costs. Practice will certainly show that there will also be problems over the demarcation of residential and business space if the living space is used to carry out the activity then it is no longer a residential space. As soon as the activity is registered in a given space, however much the legislator and perhaps this ministry would not want, but under other regulations, it will be necessary to charge all fees and costs at a higher price. And the nanny association warned that there was no reason to put a provision into the law that could be done in rented spaces, because it is no longer in the spirit of their activity. You have re-classified the nanny and those who will work in their premises and those who will work in the parents' premises in the same category, in the category of craftsmen. And we know what makes it better to tell the nannies, and that makes children and parents a relationship. During the debate on this law, we all reminded ourselves of areas where there is a great lack of space in preschool institutions, especially areas where child care for preschool children was not even organized. In my town in Vodice, we have a town kindergarten, a private one. Last year we opened a kindergarten in the village in the hinterland, but on the island of Prvic we have 6 children. It's a real little fortune. We also have an aunt who's willing to take care of them. So far, we've found a way and we've given these parents another reason to stay on the island. We were looking forward to this law that would finally lay down our rights and obligations. However, this law is not. I'm sure that aunt won't decide on the registration of the crafts and all of these givings I've talked about before. In cases of care and care for children on islands and in the country, it is not enough to just bring strategies, pass laws, and then transfer all of this to local self-government units. Dear Ministers, if you would not just declare that you are taking care of children in the countryside and in the islands, I would ask you to step up and secure funds for this category of children in the state budget. As indicated by the subsidisation of the nanny's activities from the State budget, it is not accepted because it would lead to this activity in a more favourable position than other craftsmen. And then you prescribed the possibility of subsidizing by local self-government units. Is it not, then, that these subsidies bring this craft into a privileged position, but only when it comes to state budget funds? And for insurance from local budgets which are getting smaller, given that laws only impose more and more obligations on us, and increasingly less resources are only possible by re-purpose, by redistributing the existing ones. And that's what all of us who are in local self-government units know well. To give a child and a parent, we must take away another group of citizens, or other parents or children. And finally, this proposal of the Nanny Act, although it is a lack of attempt to encourage women's entrepreneurship, self-employment, is a support to families and those parents today who have jobs and for the sake of all these parents, children, the nanny of the HDZ club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33392	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Višnja Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33393	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I think we all remember very well that as one of the first remarks she gave to children with developmental difficulties. That's when we said she wasn't the same kid with developmental difficulties and other kids. And we suggested that damage be a criterion, not a number of children. However, the committees and later found that the Ombudsman had also seen it for people with disabilities and that it had no objection to this part. We have a great respect for the lawyer and we know that she is doing her job very well, so in this part of it, here we really are, and we have given up exactly what the esteemed representative has just said. Also, as far as price increases and local administrations and self-government are concerned, I will not really argue here, but I am convinced, and you are assessing, that this law is a major step in the surety of one extra-institutional concern and ultimately we are leaving tomorrow, we are all going to be, the development of this institution is actually our future and our institutions will only be where they will be extremely necessary. So I think of this as a big step. It provides the possibility of caring, empowering our parents at this time and regarding the resources of that administration and self-government that will have these opportunities will do so, co-finance it. Surely he will strive to do so in relation to the means, and those who will not be able to do so, that is clear. But the parent will pay that service, and that's help and parents because that amount that he's going to be is actually being co-financed in paying the full service. So that's what I consider to be helping my parents. And as for the crafts, what you have stated that everyone must now open the craft, yes, but they can be those in the parenting home there is still a big difference. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33394	Thank you, too. Replica reply, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33395	Thank you very much. Well, since I've already told you who we're making this law for, then, for parents who have the resources, for local self-government units that have the resources. What about those who don't have it? ... For business space? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33396	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33397	Again? You didn't hear me?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33398	You don't have to write it all down, it's recorded. Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. Let's move on with the debate. Thank you very much. It is the Club of Representatives at the Croatian Assembly of the SDP and... I understand, I wrote Zoran Vinkovic because they told me to, and it's about Stephen Milinkovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not like that at all. So, there I couldn't make... Not at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you are, dear representative Stjepan Milinkovic. I withdraw this from the fact that Zoran Vinkovic has been reported and is not in the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33399	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll remember what I was going to say because it's been a prelude for too long, but it's a very important part of the part where you spoke to your colleagues about children with developmental difficulties. And I'm glad you spoke with more aspects, so also that economic increase in VAT on food, of course the health care. This is all about the problem that parents face with children with developmental difficulties. But surely in those circumstances of grief when the minister says your parents, I hold that she speaks to those children's parents, says they're lying, that they're not telling the truth. So they would not protest and refer to the hardships they encounter. I mean, it's the easiest way to bring strategy, law, etc. and switch to units of local self-government or those with such problems, such problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33400	Thank you, too. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the SDP club and the respected representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33401	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. So, after a short period of time, we have a law in the 2nd reading, which means that soon the law that is to be implemented will soon be passed by those people who are concerned. If we take into account that Croatia estimates that there are about 15,000 nannies, that they have at least one child, that this child has at least one parent, then it is clear that this law concerns a very large number of people. I would like to commend the democratic procedure in the adoption of this law, namely I will remind you that the minister here, speaking on the 1st reading, has just stressed that she will respect all the arguments presented in Parliament, if the arguments presented to the interested public. That is what happened and here is what I must point out as a big democratic step and commend all those who participated in this work because it is a law that is a whole new law, so we had to do something that is so far in Croatia that practically does not exist. In Croatia, there is a market, a black market for everything and so on for the nanny. We can close our eyes and pretend that the children are guarded by friends, relatives and other volunteers, but the fact is that the black market of the nanny exists and that these women are completely unprotected and without labour rights. They're doing a job that you definitely need a lot of love and patience for. Each parent knows that a good nanny can certainly facilitate the very stressful and demanding period of the first few years of a child’s life. Nannys have been working on black so far, not because it was a matter of their choice, because they wanted to, they just couldn't have done it differently. The system outside of institutional childcare was completely unregulated and unregulated with us. Now we are finally introducing order, introducing rules of the game because when we have chaos in the system then the best will be done and those who are the most resourceful, which does not necessarily mean that they are the best, best quality or most diligent. The job of the nanny and her status must not be reduced to luck that the inspection will never catch them lining up in black, they deserve a job that works to get everything that belongs to each worker. A worker who does not have the right to rules on working time, to pay health and pension insurance, to take vacations and similar rights is actually a humiliated worker. It's time for that, when the nannies are at stake. I also think about the right to education, that after obtaining a certificate these persons do work for which they were also educated, i.e. they completed a particular course. The remarks that could be heard by the Croatian Association of Nannys, opposition and interested public such as the employment of Nannys through cooperatives and companies and the like, I will not now repeat the Minister's decision but everything she said in her presentation has been respected, so the law has been significantly improved in the 2nd reading and the possibility of manipulation has been reduced definitely to a minimum. We are aware of the situation in our country, we are aware that the capacity of mangers and kindergartens in some environments is simply not enough, we are aware that the working time of parents is no longer the same as before, that very often parents can hardly reconcile their working hours with kindergarten hours and we simply owe all these facts to respect and pass laws that will make life easier for people with that knowledge. So that someone doesn't think that I'm eventually trying to advocate that the nanny is completely replacing kindergarten, I don't think that the nanny is an excellent solution to these situations that I've just cited, so when local self-government units don't have enough capacity in nurserys and kindergartens, when parents can't even match their slippery working hours with kindergartens. In these situations, therefore, the nanny is a rescue, and in all others, of course, I prefer kindergarten, because kindergarten plays an irreplaceable role in socialization and also in child education. Applying the law also makes it easier for parents to choose a nanny because so far it has been more or less oral, who recommended whom, in a way, parents and hired, and you know that, that is, taking the nanny because you know it's quite a delicate thing to take some unknown person to protect your child. So parents were always in a situation where they didn't know where to turn, to ask about friends, acquaintances. So now they're going to have one, there's a system where parents can choose an adequate person. I also agree with all those who have talked about that this is a law that encourages women's entrepreneurship, namely we know that in a crisis it is, women are far more vulnerable to the problem of unemployment, otherwise in Croatia they are more unemployed than men, and in the crisis they are more vulnerable, or more easily left out of work, so this is one of the opportunities for such persons to self-employed. So, this law is a rescue for nannies, a rescue for parents, and it also benefits the state because one segment is being edited, and thus Croatia becomes closer to the concept of a regulated state. So with everything I said in my first reading on behalf of the SDP Club, and what I said today, I can conclude that the SDP Club will all-out support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33402	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas on your exhibit. First replica and respected representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you are, Your Honor, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33403	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Representative. Well, I just wouldn't agree with the first sentence of your presentation, which is that the passing of this law will soon actually come to your mothers, the families that you need. It won't be too soon. It won't be too soon, primarily because of what is actually expected and there is a need for co-financing of local self-government that has made its own budgets, and it has too little money and that will actually make it possible, so it will actually achieve power only next year. Let's hope they can. However, what is also very important here is highlighted and what I think should be noted is the problem of a large role given to family centres and family centres, unfortunately neither by the number of employees nor by their education, I do not know how they will deal with this additional task because I do not think they are able to deal with what they have in the task, especially when it comes to the sequence of this supervisory law. In fact, professional surveillance is something that is very, very important and that will be very important in the implementation of this law and it will only be regulated by the regulation, it is not happy, it might be better if it were listed inside but I really hope that the rule will clearly write not only the need for supervision when a problem happens but a regular nazbar because it is crucial. Unfortunately, we do not have systematic regular monitoring in the area of the social community, and unfortunately this is the weakest link in all of this. I hope the same thing doesn't happen here because it takes a lot of people, qualified people, to do so in primarily family centers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33404	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33405	Dear academics, they can agree that there will be some problems in the sense that certain units of local self-government will sooner and some later recognize the value of this law and the possibility of solving at least temporarily to help their citizens through this law to help parents solve the childcare problem as easily as possible. But I will remind you that this law did not exist. So we have over 20 years of democracy in Croatia. Whether it's going to be in three or six months or three or six weeks, I think it's already less important because after 20 years we have something to catch up on, so one initial solution that we can start and solve the final problem for both the nanny and the parents and, of course, their children.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33406	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33407	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues with many things you said I really agree and it was really necessary and extremely necessary to pass such a law. He needs it, he needs it. But what I can't agree with here. In fact, I don't know if the law is proposed by the real ministry given its intensity to become new craftsmen, that it should have been perhaps from another ministry, and it all comes down to the fact that this law is actually not going to be able to revive in practice, that these 15 thousand nannies that are now working won't actually open crafts because I've talked to many of these people and they say there's just no way to get into it because it's too complicated because they're afraid of taxing, because they're afraid that here's the Ministry of Finance, in this new time, they're going to immediately start charging maltenes even while they're issuing an account, so they won't be able to solve these things. So I think this law should do a little bit more work, that it should be an absolute pause here, that we shouldn't force people to go to the turns because they won't open the turns. He's not going to resuscitate the law. There's no one here who's not trying to bring her back to life. He should liven up. So it shouldn't go so hard because it certainly won't be people coming in and it would be very interesting to see in a few months, a year how many of these 15 thousand people are actually going to enter the system of craftsmanship. They won't come in because the turns are closing and those who have been working for a long time, let alone open up like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33408	Thank you, too, for the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33409	My dear colleague, I remember that last time we discussed this law, you've been doing a similar replication about the craftsmanship, I just have to admit that I'm left with a vague view to what you're up against. So far we've had work on black, now this segment is arranged to be people's clear rules of play, so I know they addressed me as presidents of the Health Committee many people, many women who couldn't wait for the application of this law and surely this is a great thing to begin with. Of course, walking can change a little if you see it, although I think the possibility of manipulation is really reduced to a minimum in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33410	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33411	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Borzan, here we are indeed and we will support this law no matter what, but so many words you have said about democracy, about democracy, finally about coming to the Parliament of Democracy this law. I'm a little surprised that so far we've passed at least a hundred laws since last year without a story, regardless of what European laws are about. I would agree, and that's what I'd like to say, and I'd like to say that some of the bill's proposals still require climates in the country. Well, we can't say that the good was made, especially not for the craftsmen who are ahead of ruin, and that's what my colleague was talking about, and that's what I was going to say. So Mr. Linic announces to the craftsmen that he will have to pay his VAT before he collects the funds. Is this where the women you're talking about are going to be women's entrepreneurship, so I agree that in most cases it is, but I suppose it's going to be one of the men, but this is about a specific colleague of 130 and some of the midwives who passed some nanny course that I don't know if he's been certified? This should, meaning verification is but is done by law for 130 women at this time who are on the market and who are in a great dilemma whether to register the craft this way as proposed or otherwise. Let's say a cobweb to be introduced for them. I mean, it's too late now. This is the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33412	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33413	Dear colleagues, Borzan, and even these previous replicas say you're principally right. What you're saying is hard not to agree with you. You were talking about women who guard children being humiliated because they don't have their rights. However, how many humiliated workers in Croatia who do not have their rights and work do not receive wages, how humiliated are those who do not work. It seems that this government has put all the karate on self-employment, there's no other solution, but you just hire people. Here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna give you the laws, and you're gonna get yourself a job. It's very difficult for the nanny to register the trades. It seems to me that this law is passed only so that Mr. Linic could still put something in the register and further increase the budget to continue to endure several months of this agony. And all that's done is done without any foundation. You started working from the roof. You didn't predict how much it takes to keep two, three kids apart, how much it costs. Let's call her a favor. This is another dead letter on paper, it won't be played. And another question that I ask under the Law on Gender Equality, any knowledge and interest must be referred to in the female and male gender. What's the name of a man's nanny? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33414	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33415	Dear Mr. Vuksic, I'm sure you're in favour of an orderly state. That's what you said at the end of the line before the beginning of today's agenda, so Croatia is in the good part of the unsettled state and the order is introduced in one segment and in the second and so on. So every ministry does what it can, its power and what's in their jurisdiction. As far as this is concerned that the state has come here by itself, it is definitely not because these are neither the amounts that will change something important in the budget, so it is just that it is a matter of establishing order in an important segment of the functioning of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33416	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is now the HDSSB's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33417	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. So maybe today the debate on this law went a little wrong. In the first reading of this law, we have taken a lot of time to sum up and professionally and in such a way as to look at what would be best for the babysitters for the persons of either the woman or the men who wish to engage in this activity. It should certainly be important in Croatia today that someone can get a job. Better to be busy than unemployed and not know where to go with it, and this law by our club offers solutions and opportunities for self-employment first of all for several reasons. This activity has already existed for many years in Croatia, it is said of 15 thousand nannies, it is said of a large number of children more than 20 thousand who may have been guarded in this way but all these activities were outside the legal frameworks, and neither have parents nor those who had taken care of those children nor of the countries that were in the zone or people who worked in such a way found themselves in the black market zone or in the gray economy. It is known by previous regulations that since '97, there has been a possibility of this kind of childcare, so the old law somewhere there until '93 regulated the possibility of this self-preservation of children at home, however, by adopting a new Preschool Law it was left with a legal solution. Simple women, mostly women who did this job, found themselves in a black market zone. First of all, it is important and important to emphasise, this law finally puts into the legal frameworks of a person who, first of all, wants to deal with this activity after a long period of years. In our first reading, we said that it was not good for it to be a possibility to register as a company or cooperative, first of all, which only then opens up the possibility of expanding this activity to those areas that would really cast doubt or light on this interest, this nanny activity to abuse this legal possibility so that one of the entrepreneurs hires a nanny, exploits the nanny in a different way treats the law. And it's good for us that our proposal is accepted that it's just a twist. There was simply no other way to solve this, but through self-employment, through crafts, and that is certainly a contribution to it. That's why we've passed this law if we want to bring order into the black market, if it's a large number of people who are already engaged in this activity, then we've made a full guess when we put it in the legal frameworks. Considering that many people have passed the nanny education and a bit of absurd fact that in Croatia they submitted 30 applications for the opening of the registration of the nanny's activities and that these persons were rejected because there was no legal possibility for such persons to register that activity under our laws. Simply these persons, these women who wanted to register the crafts were at the border of the law by teaching this request to an official body in the Republic of Croatia, unable to register that request, or could not achieve their intention. This is very bad, so since the legal need and the need for this law to exist, we certainly did. What we have proposed in the first reading is that the period of 6 months when people who do not meet the professional conditions, we see according to this final proposal of the law that there are general and special conditions, those who have failed to meet the relevant vocational education, whether it is pedagogical, whether it is professional in terms of education and practical exercises that must pass as far as the work that will be carried out in the care of children is concerned, it is good that this deadline is extended to one year from the date of entry into force of this law. This is what the comments and requests of the Croatian Nanny Association were, and above all, we think that the deadline of one year would be enough so that people who want to put their activities into legal frameworks can further perfect and educate themselves in a way that they can obtain that verification so that they can base their crafts and get a job, self-employed as a nanny. What we were considering in our first reading is whether it is a finding that if one is able to keep up to 6 children or a legal solution when a child with developmental difficulties, what we wanted not to point out without alluding to any discrimination of these children, there are different levels of damage, we thought that this level of child damage could affect the quality of the job of a nanny, so we suggested that it should be considered in this final bill whether it is a good thing if a child is more difficult to develop, and whether that nanny can keep that child quality in view of plus those four other children that it has according to this law. Thus, it is reduced by one child from the total number 6 if a child with developmental difficulties is or is a child for up to one year. So it was one perhaps professional remark, but we see that the Ombudsman for disabled children gave her opinion and then we believe that it will in practice prove to be a good solution. What will certainly create difficulties, this law is not passed so that as soon as it works, it would be the best possible law, but certainly it is one solution that will allow systematic care and extra-institutional concern, so it does not need to be mixed here with this institutional, kindergarten, jascular child care from this extra-institutional. This is where parents who, on the basis of their employment, choose their business obligations during the day whether to send their children to kindergartens and mangers or to use this legal opportunity to keep their children a nanny in their own home or in the foster home in the way this law provides. So it's not that someone has to send their child to kindergarten or has to send his child to the nanny, but it's that parents have the right to choose, and it's good, that by law parents have the right to choose whether to trust their child in kindergarten or a nursery, of course, if there are places in them. We've seen that the problem with some local self-government units is that there's simply no room for children, so they're forced to choose this nanny service under this law. But what's important to point out, no one here commits to any parent but parents are therefore able to choose what's better for their child first, and also as it is better for them alone when they have different working hours, when they work to comply with their obligations with the obligation to protect, raise children. And certainly, what is important to highlight, this regulation will have responsibility above all and on parents who give their children trust in the nanny, but also legal regulations that even the nannies are responsible for the quality, professionally and consciously doing their job, keeping and caring for children in the house or outside the house, depending on the solution the law offers. First of all, it's also a good legal framework so far, which would happen if a child was entrusted to a nanny on guard duty, so God forbid there's any injury or anything like that, so there's a dispute that comes first and the violation of other laws and the possibility of someone finding themselves outside the line of work that he's doing, that everyone just gets into trouble. First of all, this law wants to prevent these problems, and it is good that we have received this law until the second reading that a broad expert debate has been held. Also, keeping a register and a directory of nannies and auxiliaries this regulation in the final draft of the law on auxiliary babysitters when and when they are expected to have certain general and special conditions when the nanny is employed can keep up to two children more, but it is also a responsibility and an auxiliary nanny for what he is doing, and it is certain that this will show a certain benefit under what we want to achieve under this law, and that is primarily helping parents, employees, help children, but also helping local administration, local communities in areas where such needs for childcare exist, that the law allows that if there are funds, first of all, it will not be possible in this year, but any conscious and responsible local administration, self-government if it wants to help its citizens, residents living in the area of these municipalities and cities should be able to keep all children in the institutional frameworks and their needs, and their parents, due to their need to be able to stay alive and their children in need. It is not all hours that work between 8 and 16 hours or from 9 to 17 but because of the difficult situation in the country, in the country, in Croatia today, the economics in which we live have a need to do more jobs, and then this law primarily allows such parents to take care of their children in the institutional framework and in the responsibility of all those who will therefore be insured under this law, and these are primarily children and then parents. Oversight, what we commented in the first reading, the supervision of the implementation of this law, is enough for family centres only, so family centres have the possibility to have certain great powers in their area under this law. Whether it will need to boost the capacity and expertise of family centres will be assessed by the ministry. In any case, it is necessary to make all levers available to parents and children that this law is not only a dead letter on paper but also to address the issue of the black market and to help those who can and should be employed in this way, stressing once more that it is not, therefore, the obligation of any nanny who has professional conditions to open up the trade and pay the costs of the craftsmen, but also the opportunities for the nannies who have completed schooling and have been professionally perfected to work with the craftsmen and to earn the salary as a nanny for the purpose of the craftsmen. So, there is this possibility that not all those who want to do this job have to open up trades and pay all those fees and expenses and taxes rather than be employed in accordance with the legal decisions that we have considered in these two readings. So, I think this is one of the laws under which all club representatives can find a consensus. And we can always ask that difficult question about the economic situation in the country. It is primarily the responsibility of the Government who has taken responsibility for Croatia, and we as an opposition in laws where we can make our quality contribution and professional to make something better for our citizens, parents and children in the country in which we live, we want to give it first. And we support this legal proposal in the final text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33418	Thank you, too. Now it's up to you inside the party replica. He is the first and most respected representative of Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33419	Thank you, Mr. President. Here it may be a bit unusual, but I would especially like to point out my colleague Salapic is true, it is nice and correct that a lot of suggestions have been accepted in this debate between the first and second readings. However, listening to this debate, I did not notice that something special was alerted, and it is necessary to take advantage of the minister’s presence on Article 8, which speaks of what the nanny must fulfill. So I'm particularly warning about the fact that it can be a person in the fourth subparagraph who's not legally convicted, so for acts of sensitivity it's about children. I warn again of the indifference in the Republic of Croatia, the incoherence within the Ministry of Justice of our courts, that one person convicted for example in Rijeka comes to work in Osijek. He'll ask, he's got a place in Osijek now. They will seek, therefore, confirmation of impunity from the competent court in Osijek where they live and will receive no punishment there. It's almost amazing to me, we've had these situations in some other employment, and this is particularly sensitive because it's about children. So it's illogical that we have a situation that someone could have been convicted at another court in Croatia, and then where they're going to apply for this job as a nanny or as an auxiliary nanny, I think we can objectively get a person who's also been for domestic violence for any reason punished. So, just to warn that this must be tried and agreed with the Ministry of Justice, to finally join Croatia in the 21st century at the time of the information that we do not have binding systems because we will be passing persons, it will happen that we will register and you will register in your ministry, granted conditionally in accordance with this law to carry out these sensitive activities to persons who should not do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33420	Thank you very much. We will hear a reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33421	Thank you very much, President. Here's an esteemed colleague, Mr. Dinko Buric, who reminded me well. In my debate, I forgot to open that question. In our first reading, we discussed it in a way that is possible or would it be good to let a person who has already started a prosecution at any stage, that they can even apply as a nanny. But you have properly registered this problem of the Croatian judiciary's networking in a way that these abuses can really happen in the way you said it and then avoids and the essence of the law not only of this law, but of all those laws that follow it, which is primarily that area of justice because the person has to give confirmation that he is not punished in any court and any criminal offence not only of family violence but of any crime. Unfortunately, it is one problem that will prove safe under this law, but also under other laws, because we are making a budget for 2013 we are seeking the perfection of the judiciary, and 200 million kunas less secure at the position of the Ministry of Justice, so it will be difficult to connect all this informationally if there is not enough money. And that there will be abuse in the system that is certain to be. And above all, you said here well to network all of Croatia in a way that no one can abuse positive legal regulations around important laws and on such important jobs as babysitting. It's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33422	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33423	Here's a thank you. I see you missed me since you called me while I was in the assembly. I'm here alive and well. Dear counterpart Salapic, so here I am also taking the opportunity that Minister Opačić here has pointed to a problem that will arise and stem from this law, which is the fiscal capacity of local self-government units. Because we're this so-called. In fiscal decentralization, they threw the local self-government on its knees, where many units of local self-government that have institutions such as kindergartens no longer have the means to operate kindergartens. And now take if there's a string, so the nanny, questions are raised which units of local self-government that will be able to finance, and if it doesn't write obligations, but it will practically start especially before certain elections, start into a political bickering. In Zagreb, however, there is probably such fiscal capacity, but 90% of local self-government units do not have that option. There is absolutely no right now, because this country is completely centralized, where only 4% of all tax revenues go towards local self-government units including the city of Zagreb and 96% end up in the state budget. And that's the basic problem, the problem of this law. Therefore, we must not play with local self - government units in this way or with parents, and especially with children. And here I am, taking the opportunity to congratulate you on your birthday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33424	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33425	Here's a thank-you fellow on the card first, and then on the part of the debate. So it is certain that the problem of funding units of local self-government will exist in this way and in the first reading was that it was an obligation that the local unit participates in this funding if there is a need, and now it is left as a possibility. And that's fair. So we can't legally force small units of local self-government that don't have enough resources to secure that money. But surely that care, it is our constitutional category, for families and children must be at all levels and at the level of state and local self-government. So here's what I believe the ministry will find a solution, if it's in some unit of so many children that they need to be taken care of in a way that the nanny is activated so that the state can find a way to provide help and hand to that local self-government unit to help those children if there's really no other solution that these children have to come to the nanny's activity. Well, then there are some new times ahead of us where this kind of problem will be possible on the side of the state level towards the local one. Surely your concern as mayor of the present, I hope and future, and I firmly believe that it will be and that you will find opportunities and ways to help children in your city where you are mayor, Đakov. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33426	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33427	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's to not being all inside the club and not being identified with Vinkovic, although it's a great honor for my colleague Vinkovic, but I would really talk to my colleague Salapic. Namely, you and your colleague Salapic mentioned the problems of children with developmental difficulties. And I'm sure it's what you said you should respect your parents' opinion. It certainly stands, and indeed they have much to say and warn. They should be respected but not in a way to discredit them or God forbid they tell them to lie as we had the chance to hear today. Of course, it is important to respect the lawyer’s view of disabled people. Well, here's a question I've asked the D.A.'s office about the Stancic Centre and about the extra-institutional accommodation. Of course it is determined to go to extra-institutional accommodation, but it has very clearly underlined and said no in a way to violate any right of users of this center. Here, that's the point of respecting parents and those who are stationed there. Of course, with the importance that this problem is certainly very complex and that special attention should be paid to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33428	Thank you, Your Honor. Replica response, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33429	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we, in our first reading of colleagues Milinkovic and others, stressed the need to consider children with developmental difficulties. Will the nanny be able to do quality, professionally and based on that care for children be able to keep a sufficient number of children if one child with greater developmental difficulties than this law provides, we here did not know how much damage it is possible when the nanny takes the children on guard. And it's just good to pass a law like this because the responsibility for babysitting for a nanny who takes over such a child and a parent who gives a nanny such a child is therefore all collectively responsible for the fact that this child care will certainly be the way it should be in view of the kind of child's damage. We wanted and suggested that we consider whether it is enough to reduce only one child who is completely healthy in keeping with that child with developmental difficulties, not wanting to discriminate on anyone but to help that child to have a nanny who assumes such a child on her own responsibility knowingly and professionally can protect such a child. And it is good, therefore, that we have stressed this concern as a necessary concern, but it is certainly good to put it in a legal framework so that such children too can be found in keeping the law so that the nanny who takes responsibility for such a child and for the care of that child at the time of her keeping it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33430	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33431	An esteemed colleague, a part of the debate, and a part of your debate as if she had come out of the people living under a glass bell, as if they had no real contact. No one's against the rule of law, no one's against law, no one's about to impose order, no one's about to rule out a gray economy, a black market, but tell me in what poor country is governed by law? There's something here that's inconclusive today. There's no family who can pay for it. It seems that in these discussions, parliamentary deputies come from their assets, from their pay. People don't have bread and milk. Our commitment here in the Parliament is like, and above all, the government that came out of this House, is to make Croatia a desirable place to live. No one in this debate takes care of this latest survey, which showed that the vast majority of Croatian citizens do not want to live in Croatia, so that they can leave Croatia. And again, we're talking about a law that's a dead letter on paper. I agree before with my colleague, Hrga, who said that the law needs to be fixed and that some of these solutions that are inconclusive should be avoided, which is a twist. Maybe by introducing the cobwebs. But mostly we don't care what happens after we pass the law. Another law that will not be implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33432	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33433	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Well, dear colleague Vuksic, I said at the beginning of my debate that we may have started at the beginning already in the wrong direction. If anyone should have talked about problems and if anyone is talking about the real problems of our citizens, about poverty in Slavonia, it's us. But I don't think this debate is about populism, as you said now that we're going to talk about it like no other problem is more important than this and as if this law isn't going to achieve anything. If we do so, we do not need to make any more laws than we should every day talk about just sinking, sinking and living hard, and then all that we do is fall into the water, so that we ourselves do not need to be enough. First of all, we need to work for the benefit of our citizens and when it is really difficult and when such a subject is to be discussed, we need to make a contribution. If we're going to be a quality opposition, I think we should be a constructive opposition, if we have to make a smart proposal that the government will respect, then we expect the government to accept it. And this is one of the laws, according to my colleague Vuksic, which is not simply for populistism, but is simply to give hands to children and parents, and to those who will give their children properly under the legal frameworks into professional, quality hands of people who do this work. If it is difficult for someone and if we are to speak honestly and wisely, and if we are to be as a service of our citizens who have chosen us here, then in these topics that are important to our citizens, and parents and children should throw out populism and be an honest representative, honest man and give a hand where the hand should be provided, and that is, above all today, when we talk about children and parents, when we put a law from the black market within the framework of positive legal regulations of the Republic, which we will help both children and parents but also of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33434	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the replicas, now on behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33435	Well, I thought I'd talk about all the clubs, do their own debates, then let's get out of sight, but since this is where the debates are headed in one direction that we really shouldn't be going. I'll take my chances and react. As Mr. Salapic said, there is a big difference between the debate we had twenty days ago here on this bill because there was a debate about eight o'clock in the evening when the cameras were not on fire and obviously the big difference today when the cameras were on fire and when many think that they have to collect political points on this topic. I think you can pick the best political points when you support something that's a good project and helps the largest number of our citizens. And what I wanted to react to was a very incorrect political behavior for you, Mr. Milinkovic. If you decide to collect points here today across the back of children with special needs I ask you nicely then it goes on your conscience today. In the last year and a half as many as some funds have been cut in the ministries due to budget savings, not a single lip has been taken down by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, no social rights has been taken away from citizens over the past year and a half. This discrimination is the product of your law, Mr. Milinkovic, of your law that you have passed. And I didn't say they're lying to their parents, but I said that you support a surface of a journalist who's based on untruth. This government hasn't taken any parents in a year and a half, but it's the right that you took in your law that you wrote a few years ago. In a year and a half, we kept all projects to NGOs, all personal assistants with the fact that in the last year, with all our savings, we found additional funds to increase 24 personal assistants primarily for children with multiple damages. In this year, we will retain that standard, which means that we have provided this year for 631 personal assistants who are the most direct support to these children, for an interpreter of the sign language for 52 interpreters and for the employment of seeing blind persons escorts for them 16. That's about $36.5 million this year plus $37.5 million for people with disabilities. For all these projects, we have also prepared ourselves for the European Social Fund because we think it is services and assistance for people who are direct and need to be strengthened. Since there is no more space from the lottery funds, we must turn from the state budget to the European Social Fund so that we can strengthen these services because they are indeed the only concrete and real help parents and children with multiple damages and people with disabilities at all. So these are numbers, this is the truth all else is politicizing. I think that these people who really live with big problems and in places like Slavonia, where we have very few experts who can help parents, one of the strongest institutions is Cekin at Slavonski Brod, which should be developed as an example of good practice. One of the few centers that provides support for parents with children who have some kind of damage. So all of this together is still little for people who unfortunately have children with multiple damages because their needs are far greater than what we are funding right now. But once again I call you, this is not the category where political points should be collected, this is the category to discuss with arguments. And what I've said here is arguments, and once again I urge you not to take this debate out of your own framework, if you want to discuss some other topics, you know what the procedure is here in Parliament, so you can open this debate, but today here is the debate primarily about nannies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33436	Thank you very much. First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33437	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 216 has been injured. You, as President of the Parliament, and as the chairman, were obliged to warn the Deputy Prime Minister that this is not how he behaves in the House. It's not hers to teach political lessons, it's hers to defend the law, if she wants to answer the arguments let the parents of the children at home in the apartment. To whom is the country intended, and you want to move the little apartment out of there, answer that question?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33438	... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33439	Please, please allow me to conduct the session. You have been given the opportunity to warn you of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I estimate that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, this is a political body and a political body and political evaluations can and should be presented, as you do. The government is not non-political, nor is it a non-political minister. Well, then don't ask, so you're wrong. Of course you know that you can ask the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to evaluate this assessment, my judgment, and if you do not ask for this, you lose the right to request a new one from the Rules of Procedure in the course of the session. Thank you very much. We're done here. Second warning, or notice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament at 11.12 minutes have expired time to report a debate of ten minutes after this topic. Now let's get to the line of the replica. The first replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33440	Your Honor, Mr. President. I must point out, Madam Minister, that I am now disappointed in this unnecessary act of yours. So, you always keep in mind all the members of the government that you are elected by representatives of the Croatian Parliament rather than vice versa and do not experience everything that is critical of some bill. Well, you won't expect us to say everything is ideal. There's no such law, but if any criticism is given then you're justified to deny it, but don't really allow yourself to give lessons to anyone. We tried, here I am trying on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club to really be constructive. This is an important law. It's important because it concerns our children and that's why we're talking again. It's okay that between the first and the second readings, there was an opinion that came from the opposition clubs, but don't spoil it with it now, you can't do it for nothing. You have no right to do that. I'll warn you here's another illogicality in Article 9 we are in the debate of a lot of things you say but not all words can be said. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. do not refer to auxiliary nannies, EU citizens. You know what it refers to, that he must know the Croatian language and the Latin letter. Everyone must know the Croatian language but an auxiliary nanny who will not have to know the Croatian language in Slovenia from Italy or Hungary to us in Slavonia from Hungary, and in Dalmatia from Italy. I'm sorry, I don't think that should stand in our law. In our law whoever will guard our children and raise our children must know the Croatian language first of all. If you think that a Croatian citizen who goes to Germany will not have to know German, it is not reciprocity and it is not a alignment with the EU acquis. I'm sure of it. I think this is a post, that article 2 paragraph 9 is wrong and that this should also be taken into account before we vote finally on this law. He needs to be kicked out, stay if the nanny has to know Croatian, then the assistant nanny must know Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33441	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33442	Here's what I've come forward for is the way the minister stepped in towards the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, this was an violation of parliamentaryism. In this way, every time we learned that members of the government were coming and giving lessons to the MPs. They think we didn't choose them because we didn't confirm them or we were abstention or we were against them, so they shouldn't respect us or respect us. The way the minister stepped forward only says she's starting to lose her temper. And don't lecture us on how we're going to collect political points to which we don't. You know very well how you spread political points, how you run the country, and that's why you lose your temper. So I'm asking you just a minimum of decency and nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33443	Next replica and respected representative Josip Boric:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33444	Dear Minister, your performance was not even correct, but it is in line with the government's policy and with the performances of all who come from the executive authorities because they clearly order, you are not elected, we are elected in the executive power, and I remember these times before that. You were very sensitive to such performances by former ministers from another government. But, well, everyone has a right to their performance, so so do you. But I wanted to ask something else. Tell me how the foundation of this law will treat those who don't enter the system, means they don't work with craftsmen, that no nanny is registered, i.e. that they do business as they do today, given that there is no punishment for such persons in the criminal provisions. So we're talking on one side here, and we're starting to fight the economy in the gray or the one called the black economy or the gray area, and there's no punishment for those people. It reminds me of renting apartments and dealing with tourism where all those who have a tile and are registered to perform and activities are supervised, punished by inspectorates, and all those who do not have it are simply not within that supervision or inspection etc. I'm afraid it's going to be the same through this form of law, so I think we're wasting our time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33445	I would remind everyone who has already mentioned behavior in the replica that short memory does not change history or historical fact. In this House, the behaviour of the executive government, prime minister, president and minister was far, far away, I must use the expression of forgiveness more arrogant than it is now. This experience that we've had, which we've had in this assembly for 12, 13 years, cannot be erased by a new standard that I say the opposition is sensitive to achieving. This is the arena of political, political arena and political judgments and evaluations are allowed and necessary for the sake of the Croatian public and I therefore do not contest your evaluations, nor do I challenge them, or even a respected Deputy Prime Minister. Let's move on with the replica. It's time for the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33446	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister, this statement of yours is not nice as much as Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament has defended you. It's not nice because you dared to honor us for collecting political points. Well, Madam Minister, you said and mentioned children with special needs. Madam Minister, these are children with developmental difficulties. You need to know the terminology in the middle of the night when someone wakes you up or finds you somewhere on an inventory. It can't happen to you, and here's something that's justified. And now something you'd like us to talk about in an argument. Madam Minister, it is fantastic and divine that future nannies who register in crafts will pay VAT in advance without even charging their funds. They look forward to it and look forward to opening such a twist. Here's another thing that may not suit you, but believe me, that's an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33447	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33448	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what's been said, so I wouldn't have, since I was the subject of these steps, I wouldn't have spoken in that sense. But I am willing to get a few more hits if this will help improve the quality of life with developmental difficulties, if this will, of course, contribute to the problems faced by users in Centre Stancic, which parents warn about. I just want to say here the opinions of the parents and their attitudes they warn of. The problem is further I want to say about this outside of institutional accommodation, so the same thing in countries, for example. For 30 years, England has been going gradually with this project, and Stancic himself has somehow launched this project from the very institution. But we also can't have this kind of song within a year, so it's a job that needs to be done studioically, gradually, and that's what I want to warn you about. Of course, parents who warn about certain problems also think. And now we can get around here we've done this we've done what, I want to say that more says one piece than 100 words, that we're saying we don't know how much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33449	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33450	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Minister. I expected that I might get an answer to that question about the turntable, but since you started in this part of your response and the debate to follow all the social care programs, I have to say that there are also political shifts in social care centres throughout the Republic, and I also have to say that I'm not surprised that you didn't say that the nannies would be able to work as craftsmen because it was dealt with by law, so there's no problem. That doesn't surprise me because I don't think your system works well because that system works well wouldn't have your deputy Ledinski given it to Koprivnica and said he'd take four months off. So maybe you'd better get back a little more argumentative on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33451	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33452	Indeed, I do not consider this an attack on parliamentaryism because there have been worse attacks in this House, and I agree that someone has a short memory. I don't think we should be as interested in what happened 10 years ago as we should be interested in everyone together as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be tomorrow. As for these examples with children with developmental difficulties, there is the city of Djakovo with its Children's Association with the Neven Association, which has six employees where the city co-finances etc. I want to warn and return to this Nanny Act because that nanny will have to pay both taxes and contributions because she will have her own trade. So now if you take that somewhere the economic price of kindergarten depends on a single unit of local self-government, depending on how much that unit of local self-government is financing but the economic price is moving somewhere between talking about the economic price, so somewhere between 1500 and 2000 kuna. And if this is the price of a nanny and the price of a full-time stay of that child, the question arises, which parent at the moment, regardless of whether his social rights have been taken away, but which parent at this time who has that average salary especially in Slavonia of 3.5 thousand kuna, and where may they be fortunate to work both father and mother, who is the family who will be able to pay one such nanny? What unit of local self-government in Slavonia but also in most part of Croatia that will be able to co-finance this nanny? Along the way you must also ensure the functioning and institution such as kindergartens as private kindergartens. And that's where you just have to give an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33453	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33454	So I'm just gonna use this response to the replica to say two answers. Namely, you should soon go here in front of you and amend the Labour Act. I hope that the amendments to the Labour Act may not be this first phase but another that will go to some new forms of work that we do not know at the moment but know the EU countries, ensure that we have another additional space for let's say registering this kind of activity. At this point, given what our legislative space is offering, this is the law on which seven ministries worked together with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So all those who were important to us we included them from day one in the making of this law and we were looking for some possibility of how to make the babysitters as cheap as possible for the parents and still be in the system. So at this point, the Law of Turning was the only thing that gave us the opportunity to make them the cheapest and to organize the easiest way possible, not to have to keep books, to be able to pay these cobwebs, so at this point it's the only thing we have. I hope that the amendments to some other laws will allow us some new forms of work, some new types of this registration that could simplify but also cost us the whole nanny job. And on the other hand, for those who do not want to open the crafts, there remains the possibility of a work contract that they conclude directly with their parents and thus can regulate their activities legally.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33455	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate by the committee clubs. It is up to the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Labour Assembly and respected representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33456	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister with an associate. Well, here I am truly very sorry, we have come to this debate and we have even started to praise and praise the democratic method of passing this law here in the Croatian Parliament, after a long time we have realized that between the first and second readings can be discussed nicely and constructively and that some proposals are being seen and implemented in the final proposal of the law, and then we are starting to conclude that MPs in this House are not really allowed to talk about the problems that they consider to be problems, detect these problems and really well-intentioned warnings about some failures that occur in the law. Minister, you have called here a colleague to collect political points on children with special needs and to join my colleague, Sumrak, who tells children with developmental difficulties. You are, however, the minister of all these children and all those parents who meet with that concept daily, and I think it should be very sensual of that, especially because of the way in which you defend it all. You also called your colleague about the arguments. There's always argument on one side and the other. You yourself are aware that the problems exist, you mentioned them, you said who is to blame for them, but we must all be aware that you are the minister of a very, very demanding ministry and that your task is that these problems that have accumulated and which are still piling up you are trying to solve without criticising parliamentary representatives who are constantly warning these problems. As for the Nanny Act, here is a good thing that you have taken into account the suggestions, suggestions and the concern in the first reading and until the final law no longer mentions companies and cooperatives as opportunities for nanny employment. But this morning I went online and tried to play the parent who needed a nanny, and I can tell you that I found a lot of ads, and among other things, I found one that I'm going to share with all of you. We are a company that has been involved for more than 10 years in the organisation of tourism animation in Croatia and abroad, and we have expanded our activity since 2013 and for professional childcare services. Our nannies are also certified according to the requalification programme approved by the Ministry of Science, Education and Education, with interest enrolled in the workbook. Of course, apart from these formal and extremely important qualifications, they have great experience in working with children of a wide variety of ages, they are characterized by enthusiasm, warmth and unquestioned expertise. These are all young, educated and professional girls who have been our employee for a long time and in whom we have great confidence. What you get by hiring an agency, and not by a person through an ad, is a qualified and certified nanny, legally operating through a company, an R1 account with a VAT where, under the new law, nannies are recognised as tax relief, security in order, cannot happen that your nanny is late, that she is sick, in which case her healthy replacement comes. We will form the offer according to your needs. And here's where the e-mail is listed, and the website is listed and what got my attention is precisely in this offer the Nanny Act recognises tax relief which is certainly not true. And now that we are discussing this law and how good it will be and what it will bring, in that first reading, I personally warned of one thing, which is not solved by this final bill, is regulation of activity, not occupation. The name of the nanny as such defines the person who takes care of the child in the space of the parent, and according to the international classification of the profession of the person who takes care of children in his living space, they are otherwise classified as not in conformity with the national occupation classification as such. As early as January 2012, the nanny association warned of this, she submitted a proposal to launch corrections and to the Assembly Committee on Education and the Ministry of Labour and the State Department for Statistics, however, without any response. This will also cause some additional problems. The nanny law does not distinguish between a nanny who cares for children in her own home from one who cares for children in a parenting home but is decidated on the issue that they can only work if they are craftsmen and are enrolled in the Nanny Register. However, according to the national classification of activities and according to the statistical classification of economic activities in the European Union we had to comply with. This is about two activities. One activity includes the activity of day-to-day care for children and another the activity of households who employ services. And this second part in Croatia and now we've got it solved and now it can work. It's the conclusion of a contract of work between two natural persons, so between parents whose house I as a nanny come to, and me who will guard their children and that contract has been settled here are all obligations of one side and the other. However, I would really like to have the information and know how many such contracts are recorded and how much money is paid in the state budget on the basis of such contracts. I'm afraid very, very little. Just because we haven't separated these two activities, so keeping and being a nanny in your own space or in your parents' space, we're going to have trouble applying this law itself. The cost of babysitting in the parent's apartment ranges from 15 to 30 kuna per hour depending on the time and day whether it's a weekend or so. If the nanny keeps the child in continuity from 8 to 10 hours a day, then that price goes from 2500 to 3000 kuna. Now, if the registered nanny performs childcare in the parent's apartment and has monthly donations, mandatory monthly contributions and another minimum of 2,000 kuna, then the question is how long will she remain. According to this account somewhere between 500 and 1000 kuna, there are no other donations from hers. If the nanny craftsmen in her apartment keep six children as long as she can by law, provided she doesn't have her two underage or one child, then she can charge somewhere like we heard at the price of kindergartens about 1500, we can even count 2,000 kuna times those six children get to some number from 15 and from 9,000 kuna to 12,000 kuna, respectively. However, if we also take away the obligations, or contributions that must be paid, if we take away the directors that as a craftsman must pay for, if we take in this way also the feeding method and all those needs of hygiene and so that the nanny who keeps six children in her own home must always have a question of how much of that nanny is left. However, I still believe that those who have been certified to carry out the nanny’s activities and who decide to carry out that activity through their crafts will mean some sort of bill or will not register. This law is good for those nannies who have a certificate and who will eventually work in the registered craftsmanship of some other nanny. They'll get paid, they'll get paid all the taxes, all the contributions and all the obligations as employees, and they'll have some kind of income at that point. But I'm afraid this part won't have much of a reckoning, yet here's why we welcome this law in terms of self-employment and putting it all into some legal framework. But I'm also afraid that we're going to have a lot of Delnice cases in the part where the nanny is going to keep the kids in the parents' apartments. The minister said in her opening statement by creating a legislative framework for the activities of the nanny in the Republic of Croatia, it gives parents the option to choose between institutional and outside institutional child care. Few parents will still be able to choose. This institutional concern still has some working time that is not adapted to the labour market, is not adapted to some new opportunities that exist on the employment market, there are still strict working hours and we have long stopped working from 7 to 3 or from 8 to 4 in the afternoon. So these parents who are not able to leave their child in kindergarten due to inadequate working hours and institutional concerns will have to take care of the extra-institutional, but the question is whether they are financially capable at all. As for funding, i.e. obligations, opportunities, or not units of local self-government co-financed nannies, I don't know if it's been discussed with the association it seems to me that we have an association of cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and that we will be able to bring citizens into a situation that they will not all have equal or equal rights and that citizens living in units of local self-government who have better or larger budgets and services will be able to finance as opposed to those who will not be able to do so. And then we'll worry again about how our rural areas run out of inhabitants and how our cities are overcrowded. And for the end of the ministry, I would only ask you one more question. What's the name of the baby-sitter men going to be? Namely, here I am president of the Committee on Gender Equality, and I would really like you to give me that male name for the nanny. In accordance with Article 13(6) of the Law on Gender Equality in Article 13(6), the name of the position of male or female shall be used in the adoption of a solution to the schedule at the workplace and other solutions on the rights and obligations of officials or officials. We'll be in a situation where we'll have to give Mark Mark Markovic, who's been trained to do the nanny's job, some kind of solution that he'll write about what he's been trained to do. Here, I would really like to ask that, and given the Article 14 of that same Law, point 5, we are obliged to cite the calling and occupation of a female or male. And it's on the trail of what I warned at the beginning, so we're passing a law of interest, not a law of activity. But on several occasions, we are behind this speaker today, and from you, the minister, we have heard that this law will be dealt with not only by women, and of course men have the right to do so. Well, here's what you might have been thinking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33457	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33458	Here's a respected colleague less important as a male person will be called, I have an answer but I'm not going to say it, but the most important thing of this law that does allow possible new employment, but in this centralized country where everything is centralised is preschool education itself, and this should be a preschool education system not to rule out that little school that's being funded in the education system, but the entire system of so-called preschool kindergartens is not being financed from the state budget. If we've already centralized the state so much, let's centralised the entire preschool education. That way we won't come, so here's the time of the election campaign, many political parties even for every 10 voters promise a possible one-way ticket to Mars, closed swimming pools, new kindergartens, all free of charge, etc. But I argue that in Croatia one large majority of local self-government units will not be able to co-finance this type of programme because there is simply no funding. That parents who can barely put an end to the end so they're lucky even if the two of them are working and they don't have grandparents who can look after their children won't be able to get into that program because they simply don't have the means to pay for a wife or a man who's going to look after their children. Nor will it be possible to be a foreigner or a foreigner who must unquestionably speak Croatian. Well, it can't happen that the Swede is raising a Croatian child. So he must know the Croatian language. But the point of this is that many units of local self-government, and most parents don't have the means to pay for the nanny.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33459	Thank you very much. Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33460	Well, a colleague of mine will also be able to raise a Swedish girl if you as a parent agree to it and want to teach your child that as quickly as possible Swedish. But let's get back to this problem of local self-government units. There will be even more what we are afraid of all the time, what we are afraid of and what is happening to us in reality because of work, and now because of kindergartens or kindergartens, more and more parents come to cities and our villages remain empty. These small units of local self-government that have some and 700 residents to those thousands and something, and we have many in Croatia, the question is just how many nanny jobs will they be able to co-finance? What will parents gain, and what will they lose? What I have warned about and what I would really like to see become our practice is the coordination of all the bodies we have in Croatia. If we have an Association of Cities and Cities or I don't know what it's called anymore, so we have relevant people who have information that is the problem of local self-government, then when the law is passed that this local self-government is bound to any new expenditure should be discussed with these people. We have all the power of agencies, we have news that here someone in Croatia is full of cap experts as they say, but I still advocate that experts should be able to talk to experts and that only in such a way can optimal solutions be made for everyone and not just for the benefit of some.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33461	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33462	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here is my colleague Tyrell, and last time at the first reading, you have actually reasoned on this bill, and often I can't figure out who is in the ministry, and who is in this section when the law is being discussed this way because you have cited a few things that actually state the fact that those 7 ministries that discussed this law still haven't discussed well and that they have missed very important things, even in some part and technical nature in that conflict later and that they are implementing law in general among the laws in the Republic. What is important, I am absolutely for the Nanny Act, personally I would even prefer that in Croatia we have a system where kindergartens would be necessary and nanny reality. Then we could nurse the family, the family tradition. But the situation is different. At this point, we are once again passing a law that cannot be implemented in any way by you. There is a law that will make new discrimination between local self-government and children and parents and nannies living in different neighbouring local self-governments and we are passing a law that has an intensities in principle in a way that fills the state budget. Here, a very short and clear law was to be considered that would allow people to have children, that these children were primarily kept in a parent home, and that those who could not find jobs were temporarily guarding those children. That was supposed to be the intensity, that's what you were talking about. And this, we go in a totally different direction, we go in one piece again, in one part of some complicated legal norms that are so complicated in Croatia that there's nothing you can do anyway, that whenever we pass a law, no one can implement it, and then again we have what's been said in the gray economy, the black economy, I don't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33463	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33464	Comrade Hrg, here's to agree with you on everything you've said, but I also heard the minister say there's a new Labour Act coming, and then you'll see together what and how certain problems can be solved more effectively. We're very, very good theorists, and very bad practitioners, and we're showing it from day to day. We're kind of passing laws and saying, for every law we say is great and he's good and that it's very good that this law was passed because we're going to solve another new niche with some kind of problem. However, we should be and work systematically to provide a reasoned warning of things that will happen in practice. We don't have enough law if we can't make good use of it. Any well-intentioned suggestion is good and it is normal for those people who, with certain problems, know better than that theoretical officer in any ministry, who need to put an accent on, and where it is necessary to move to get things started, start doing quality and happening. As long as we don't have coordination not only between the ministries, especially between the ministries and the terrain, we'll be passing laws that are beautifully paved on paper but that are unfortunately very, very difficult to apply in practice or that after a while they actually show us that the law isn't good because then we open up a lot more additional problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33465	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33466	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm glad to hear from my colleague Tyrell that in some way you've explained this law to us and from that work point of view, but of course I agree with you and the part where you said that you've never made enough effort to improve the quality of life of children with developmental difficulties, persons with disabilities. But I also have to express my suspicion that these circumstances that are being warned by parents of children with developmental difficulties, and parents of course users of the centre Stancic about outside institutional accommodation, will contribute and will further improve. I believe that this, too, this statement of mine now, you see, will now impute again in some way, again, this one wants to collect political points as I was repeatedly handed over to agriculture in some way. So you see what we witness these days about agriculture. And I want to say very clearly, the sad mother is to the one who collects political points on children with developmental difficulties or with people with disabilities. I am particularly unhappy because, professionally over 30 years of care for children with developmental difficulties, I have 2 kindergartens that are free, now I build 3, and I have a quality, exceptional relationship with people with disabilities, with children in developmental difficulties that can bear witness to my efforts and always a broad and good heart coming into my midst. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33467	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33468	My colleague, here's what we mentioned, and the minister mentioned it in her presentation at the Stancic Centre, right? I would just add that such centres in Croatia have a lot and I think we are aware that the problems exist and that we can no longer run away from the problem, and the evidence of this is here and recently seems to me a month or two ago here in St. John's Square. Mark was just the parents of those children looking for a minister to talk to her and to point her to certain problems. Problems will never end, there will always be a problem, but it is important how hard we try, or how much the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth really bothers to solve the problems. There is no move from the minister if she criticises you, me or any parliamentary representative for building or reaching political points on such persons. It will have something like the ministry of resolution at the time when a large number of parents are satisfied with the legal regulation and theory, or practice that is happening on the ground, and when they have everything they want to have for them as parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33469	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33470	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, at one point you said, note and specifically pointed out that this is a law that regulates a new form of self-employment. So then we hear, here is often mentioned and how today we are discussing the law and its influence that will also have on funding for local self-government units. I did not experience this law as a law that regulates self-employment above all, but rather reminds me of Article 6 of this law which says what activity we regulate, which is an activity that includes the protection, care and care of children up to 14 years of age. So, we talk about other less important things all the time, and the point of this law is child care, not self-employment. That should be settled by law. I absolutely agree with that. But when I stress this that we need to make sure that he regulates our desire to help those who are the most indisposed, the most sensitive in a certain way, then I again remind myself of the indifference not of Article 37, not of the article, but of Article 8 and Article 9. The dangers hidden in Article 8 that I have said when it comes to issuing a certificate of impunity and Article 9 which allows the auxiliary nanny to be if it comes from another EU country of persons who do not have to know Croatian. This is not in line, you said on the front page of this document that this is in line with EU legislation, with the acquis of the EU, I ask that it is also in line with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. I'm asking you to check it out before we vote on it. Where it is prescribed in the EU that Croatian citizens who will guard children in Belgium, the Netherlands or anywhere else do not need to know the language of the country of origin. This should be excluded from that paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33471	Thank you. The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33472	You're on the trail of what we've been warning you since the first reading. This was supposed to be the Law of Out of Institutional Care for Children. If we had passed such a law rather than the Nanny Act and had written in that law beyond institutional care that we should take care of these children in this segment, then things would have been much, much simpler. And the nanny's activity was solved through the Law on craftsmanship, or the classification of an occupation where they would exactly write to him with a special rule that the nanny must be in the nanny's register, that the assistant nanny must be in the registry of the auxiliary nannies. If we had then solved that part there and let those people who have a license or a certificate do their job as auto mechanics, like anyone else, because they've been trained and trained for it. We'd be avoiding these problems. This is how we talk about occupation all the time, we don't talk about activity, and that's what's going to happen to us when we start applying this law in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33473	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33474	Comrade Tyrelli, you are in your debate that the wealthier units of local self-government may find a way or opportunity to co-finance the activities of the nanny in their area by the foundation of this law. I give you an example of the city of Rijeka where a bad government and the SDP government have just used this law to say that they will not co-finance the work of an association that has been involved in training, the certification of the nanny, etc. Since it extended this Article 6 to the possibility that the nanny would be used up to 14 years of age. They did it all the way to the third year. And, of course, there's been a problem. And then it's the easiest explanation. We'll build new kindergartens, new nurserys, etc. And that's where we institutionally solve these children's problems. Because I really don't see the point when we compare it to the nanny activity with what's-his-name. Grandma's service. Which is why the city would be co-financed by some nanny who had one or five or six children who wouldn't help some grandmother or I don't know who had a child who also had a child. What is the criterion here to classify it into two different groups. How much money should be hired there. This law does not know the grandmother's service, does not know the penalty for those who do not enter the system, are not craftsmen, are not registered nannies etc. What happened in the stocks, as you pointed out, will happen, that the nannies and the parents who gave the child to watch over everyone for one received nice criminal charges. So now go ahead and get into that system. And reality is completely different. She's saying something else, and it's this law that needs to be solved, that no article has made that difference between grandmother service and nanny anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33475	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33476	My colleague, I'm not going to talk about the decisions of the city of Rijeka and about what they're going to finance or what they're not going to finance. I'm just gonna warn you one more time that it's not just the Share case. The fact that we've been training hardness and looking for those who work on black right here in babysitting and what both these older ladies and parents have ended up where they ended up. It's really the least of the honors I think the Ministry of Social Policy is about to react at the moment. We have the Law on Units of Local Self-Government, which decidently state what local self-government units must do in terms of child-saving. Now he's on everything he's gonna do and how he's gonna do it. There's something else I'd like to mention. There is a barter business in Croatia, so it is a business where we can exchange some services, goods or streams like that and it is a legitimate business. What if Grandma says she's going to look after someone who's going to do her some kind of favor? We're going to punish her, she's going to end up in a criminal trial or she's being prosecuted. And all the time we're saying that we're passing this law because of parents and children and all the more we discuss and the more we argue, the further we realize that we're further away from those same parents and from those same kids that we're standing up for in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33477	And Anna Lovrin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33478	Well, fellow Tirelli, I agree with you very much. And although I don't think it's the main issue and the question of this law is that the minister determines what the male nanny will be called. You are certainly right as president of the Committee on Gender Equality asked the question, but here is the Croatian language, it is known to be a rich language but still in some interests traditionally defined for a particular sex do not know that name in the second sex, so I think we should not violently change the Croatian language to say now that a male nanny will be a nanny or, say, a female miner, but I think we should have accepted the suggestion that during the first reading, and that suggestion was that this law was called a law on the activity of, say, extra-institutional childcare or extra-institutional care of pre-school children because we have good examples and good practices and in our legislation. So, for example, we call one law, the Mining Act, and we don't call it the Mining Act. We have the Household Activity Act, we don't have the laws on chefs, waiters, etc. And therefore, the intensity could be better processed and seen in that law if that law, as you have said, and I agree with it, dealt with and prescribed the conditions for a particular activity, no matter who does so. There will be no problem in the application itself, and I don't think there will be any problem in keeping children with men, because the term of the nanny from the law includes a natural person, it doesn't say which sex, so it will be possible, but here it won't be possible in everything to apply the Law on Gender Equality. And in this case, if we were to treat the activity, but not just because of this problem, but because of the essential problem, we could solve it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33479	Thank you very much. Time's up. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HNS club, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33480	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister with an associate. The HNS welcomes this proposal in the second reading, or final draft of the law, and we appreciate the effort that the ministry has made through the debate in the first reading to come up with those recommendations by the parliament that it could put in place in the final proposal. We think it's on some of the most controversial issues that are raised in a very high-quality debate that was conducted in the first reading to bring about changes that will improve the bill. And the first time I talked about this law, I was talking about this law giving us a chance, giving us a chance to stop, to rule out, to sort out a part of the labour market that is unfortunately not just that, we have unfortunately a whole series of them in particular connected to some women's affairs with some so-called women. services from housewives to geranto-homewives which are not in the legal framework sufficiently suspended. Here's one of the first steps. So this law will give that opportunity, give it a chance. Earlier, a colleague mentioned the city of Rijeka, and it is clearly infuriated by the city of Rijeka and its possibilities, namely the city of Rijeka is known to have one of the best social programs in the Republic of Croatia, and as far as these issues are concerned, the city of Rijeka was one of the beginners, or in the city of Rijeka, the idea and the education of people who wanted to work professionally. Of course, they ended up in the meantime, but this law was just a legal basis missing so that they could put their knowledge into office. That's why I don't think it's a good idea for us to speak falsely from this pay phone or from any of the seats in this House, since it's precisely in that city that not only this one, but many other ideas in social programs are being started, and later raised to a national level as legal proposals. So we are aware of the situation that institutional care for children in our country is unfortunately in a situation where we are not economically strong enough. We cannot put the system of institutional child care on those grounds that would satisfy all, meaning the state as a social state and its objectives, and also the users, and that in one part certainly this bill will help in one period, I hope not on some long term and not very massively, that care or care about children and the possibility that through a private initiative the nanny can engage parents who cannot find a place within the system or cannot comply with their working and ine obligations with the working time of the institutions to meet these needs through the nanny. Everyone here stressed and in the first debate means on the first reading we talked about that will certainly encourage the self-employment of the part of the person who deals and now with this job that we do not have recorded in the system, which will in some ways be able to also educate additionally and to enter that nanny register. It will also enable parents to be much safer in hiring such services than certain individuals, so the whole series is things that are much better here. What a colleague used to say means our black market or gray as we wish is not only a problem in this part, and surely that black market will not be resolved by this law, as it has been through a whole series of other laws and in other activities we have failed to contain the black market. However, what I want to suggest here is probably not through this final bill, but perhaps in some future amendment, sure that it might help to stop this black market in this segment if there is indeed a certain obligation whether local, possibly local self-government or regional self-government, to prescribe a part of the subsidy, not to the extent and probably not to the extent to which it is a subsidy for kindergartens because it will encourage users to regulate their relationship with the service provider, so it will expose it to the system and introduce it into this law or under this law. We didn't predict it here, so it would be some kind of incentive for one who uses the service to report it, whether it's a twist or a contract of action, meaning the traditional form that we normally have as a possibility of negotiating these kinds of jobs. There was also a name speech, meaning what it will be called a male who will carry out such an activity. I'm not particularly worried about it. I'd leave a man as a nanny, too. It was very unfortunate for all of our language acrobatics, and today it is an unfortunate language acrobatic that we have translated a whole series of male occupations into female occupations and bad sounds, not to say that some are completely incomprehensible. Therefore, if something like a job is called a nanny, let it be at least female, let no offense be given to fellow men. We women also do a whole series of jobs that have a typical male name, are translated, I'm not sure it's always the most successful and best to do, in the spirit of course of Croatian language. We would, of course, like the laws to solve all our problems, but here, of course, it's very well-pointed on the problems of the gray economy and the black market, but we cannot be mistaken that we will be able to solve everything with individual laws. In fact, this area of the grey economy will certainly need to be dealt with through the Labour Act, i.e. the possibility of flexibility of the labour market and of carrying out such activities at all. So far, that's not well settled under the law. Let us hope that soon a new law that will regulate these constituency benches will also be less debated about how many black or grey economies there are in certain activities, because those who enter the market, as well as those who are looking for services on the labour market, will have and should have an interest to report these activities. The Croatian People's Party will support this bill. Of course, since we have introduced it for the first time at all, I think that time will show whether and to what extent major or minor changes will be needed and that should not be feared, it does not need to be afraid that things should change when the time comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33481	Thank you. Replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33482	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have mentioned a very many times the black market and that area. I'd say this isn't about the black market, it's about the emergency market. That's what we're having right now. What can be seen from the debate, is that in fact the main intensity of this should be to solve that market that is not in the system, and I think that this law should actually have as a major intensification to solve the problem of parents who have no one to leave their children to go to work if they're lucky. That's what's very important in this part. And this law when we're talking like that and listening to the debate actually leads me to one thing, that this law will be good for those who have money, so it will solve both part of the employment and solve the problems of parents who have money, but it won't be good for those who don't have money, and that's what we have the most. And more importantly, let's not waste much of that notion in this black market sector because God has given us a lot of need for babysitters, a lot of need for kindergartens, a lot of need for babysitting because unfortunately our trends are going in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33483	Replica response, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33484	I just wanted to point out in my debate that this is about what I said several times, about the possibility, about putting down a part of the service market although it sounds rough when I talk about children but it is simply so that this part of the service should not be confused with institutional care about children, about the goals that Croatian society and Croatian state have before them as a social state, which is that it has a system of institutional and quality system, regardless of whether it is private or public, in which there will be systematic child care in terms of pre-school education. So this is one possibility of one additional service, one occasional probably service, temporary service or whatever we want, and I think we've made a little too big chapel in or in reality to the problem that it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33485	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU club, a colleague of Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33486	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, dear Minister with an associate. I would here, here's actually after listening to all of our debates really also say that this debate was this afternoon probably wouldn't be that safe. We stayed here late at night, and there's a lot of things we said today that we didn't say, but good. That's right. Secondly, if we had moved away from the Nanny Act, from the Nanny Act, and that's true, but because we were talking about areas that weren't even part of this law. And of course we finally realized that we were away from the Nanny Act. It is also my personal opinion, that regarding children with developmental difficulties, I said so, and in the replica, I must repeat that it is not really the Ombudsman for people with disabilities in this area and gave consent to that part, in fact, for the Croatian Party of Retired Party to fight in order to continue fighting on that proposal that we pointed out to be damage, in fact the most important and most important, and not the number of children so let it be if you remember that I said that in the first debate let one child and only one child and only one nanny deserve attention and attention because it is extremely important. However, I respect and respect the lawyer's opinion and therefore, in that part, I think more in fact that in fact the Croatian Party's club of pensioners is no longer in this area. And as far as social sensitivity is concerned, just for that area, for those children, for those with disabilities 35 years I've been working on it, and 35 years of social sensitivity, I don't think that's what she's talking about. Now I would actually go back to the final proposal of the nanny law where we think he is good now, quality, actually much better and very important I would point out the fact that the arguments that have been given in the debate, that these arguments are mostly accepted and that I am very pleased and at this point this law represents one security, one transparency of the system related to outside the institution's care of children. So this is where order is now being introduced, in this activity which reduces the grey economy, it is certainly women's entrepreneurship that will surely agree with counterpart Tyrelli that both women's entrepreneurship is very important and important to us. A greater contribution is then made to the employment of persons who will do jobs through self-employment or through employment. It is good that after the debate in the first reading in the proposed text of the law we have been removed that the provisions that would allow the nanny's activity to be carried out within the limited liability company and cooperatives. We've all agreed to this together, and here's more in this bill of law, there's no final proposal. Nannys will allow this law, legal now, to carry out business activities. We've all also pointed out and said that this job is now being done, it's being done in various ways. However, he has now received a legal framework where the safe quality of the nanny service will be raised to a higher level and parents thus received one safety, a better quality care for children. Parents now have the right to choose there will be a nanny's directory where they will be sure that these are the nannies that have gone from educational to health all the way, I mean everything necessary under the law and they will be able to be safer when they go to their jobs and leave their children. In addition, one oversight of the activities of the nanny shall be ensured. Therefore, and certainly one option beyond institutional and institutional care for children. However, here I would point out that as far as this election is concerned, there will be a situation and it is good to have them, that children will be placed in an institution of preschool education, and in that period when the institution does not work and we know that it usually works for up to 4 hours, as well as parents, which I also think is not good. Parents now have the opportunity to use the nanny at that time while they still have to be at work to complete that time with this care for their children. In this way, the safe family will be strengthened, and thus the protection of the child’s rights will certainly be strengthened further. Everything involving the nanny's activity is prescribed, and I'm not going to mention it here again. We've got it prescribed. It must have, but I'll just say what's important, it must have secondary education and professional training according to the provisions of the law where it gets a certificate to carry out that activity. Nannys are listed in the nanny's directory. Now they're going to be listed as assistant nannies in the nanny's directory, which I also find very important. As regards the upper limit for carrying out, the age limits for carrying out the job of the nanny are indeed in line with the fact that this limit will not be relevant since each nanny must receive a health assurance of the ability to work with an authorised healthcare institution. Therefore, if she receives medical assurance, she is also capable of carrying out that activity. In addition, in accordance with the programmes and provisions of a specific regulation governing the work of local and regional self-government units, each of them may participate and it would be good to participate in the co-financing of activities. There's been a lot of debate about that, too. I'm sure and of course it depends on the means, but so far, we haven't even had that opportunity, and surely every single one, if any means are to be found, and any possibility of doing so. That doesn't mean it's going to be paid, it's going to be co-financed. This amount can be very small, and help can be actually significant. It is important to stress that the responsibility to carry out these tasks and almost the most goes to family centres. Family centers like we said in the debates today, we know they're not teamed up enough. We also know that I think that a family centre is yet to be done for the time being at the family centre in the City of Zagreb, that they do not have enough employees, and there is a great responsibility on our current ministry to strengthen these family centres so that they can also do these additional jobs, which will be neither simple nor small. The inspection supervision, which is good, shall be carried out by the Ministry of Social Policy through its inspectors, and the supervision of the implementation of the laws will be carried out by the State Inspectorate. We hope he doesn't have much work to do, but it's a good thing we have that provision. And now I may, perhaps, be surprised, open up a new area that we mentioned last time on the Health Committee, not to mention it now for the first time, but simply to exist in the presence of our minister to hear, and in amendments to the laws that will be related to the areas of social care, social protection and these areas to say that there is one, therefore there is one need that is not small to regulate the area of geronto-domestics and gerontodadi. I am sure that this would be a major step in the development of extra-institutional care for elderly people as well as an alternative to institutional care. I would stress here that this is an opportunity to remind you, you are all aware, that the number of people of older age is actually increasing at all times, and that this imposes new needs in the social and health care system, in fact, the need for new services that we must be missing today. And we're missing a legal framework for them. Therefore, we are also aware of the fact that there is also a lot of work in this area on black. My colleague Hrg said we're only talking about working on black, but this is also really work that is done and done is not at all simple and not a small number of things, but we still don't have a legal framework and we don't have any information about it except us who are dealing with this area, so we have some indications, but these are not relevant data for delivery. Therefore, it is also necessary to educate those who would be involved in the area. We should also have a health directory for the providers of these services, which would indeed be of great importance. We are sure that at this point, the lack of a legal framework allows for many manipulations, and you are aware of that, were also in the newspapers, which refer to people of older age who often remain alone in their homes, in their apartments where I once again emphasise the necessity and justification of the legal framework of this area either in the making of existing or in the amendments to the laws that I once said in the field of social care. For all the things I pointed out today and all that I had in the debate in the first reading of the HSU club will support this proposal of the Nanny Act, which we really consider to be a big step and will be a help and that it is as we now have quality. This does not mean that, in practice, when it begins to be implemented, we will also be faced with the fact that it may have to change and that it will also experience changes. Because one is paper and knowledge and the other is practice and terrain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33487	Thank you. Replica, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33488	Madam President, I'd like to look back on what you said was happening in front of the TV cameras, and that's why the debate is what it is, and it's not a camera to be in three minutes. Then what you've been saying for ten minutes doesn't make any sense to me, what for? But what I'm saying is ask your government and the Presidency of this House this is a question, this is an answer to you, stop telling us more that it's not television, why it puts "cams" on in the morning while TV cameras are on, and everything that was more important in the afternoon and in the evening? In fact, your Government and Parliament Presidency do not put on the agenda of this Assembly an important topic for Croatia at all. They're important nannies, and it's an important question, so HDZ supported them, so normally. What do we have to discuss? All parties will support that. It could've been better, okay. But you are colleagues, that is, your government has created in Croatia 400,000 nannies. Not 15, 400 thousand nannies. And by the end of this month, there will be 410 thousand nannies. These are the topics that we need to discuss here in front of the Croatian TV audience and give answers. You don't give us a chance. And that's why the people, working here in the Parliament, have to catch these topics of what I said, "camaltic" theme. That's the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33489	Replication response, Vishnya Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33490	I had a debate with my colleague, Marasovic, when there was a debate at 8:00 in the evening. And the debate lasted as long as it took, but it was at 8:00 p.m. I didn't wait and didn't watch when they were cameras or when they weren't cameras. It's the first and in that part you really can't tell me anything and none of us here. However, here I would like to say you have now said that we have topics that are important for Croatia and that are not important for Croatia. I believe that all the topics that come here to the Croatian Parliament are important for Croatia and I would not agree with you at all if we had non-important topics here on the table. Really not, because that's something I don't think is necessary in that way at all, let alone at this point in front of the cameras to speak. And also about what you just said, that you're just using the opportunity because you don't have to say anywhere else, everything that wasn't really the subject of the Nanny Act today, here's what we have, and now you've proved it because the cameras are on, that's why you're talking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33491	Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33492	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Fortuna, I think you and the rest of us MPs, very inappropriately at the beginning of your presentation, have objected to us discussing something right now just because the cameras are involved. So, we've been discussing this law, I don't think childcare is a chamomile law, it's an important law. Many of us debated him and when he was in the afternoon, about very important topics about standards, about imposing further obligations on local self-government units to conduct surveillance, and we see that some of our serious objections are respected in this text of the law. So I don't know now, you objected to us like that, and then I ask you if it's because of the cameras, because of the television, or why you expanded the debate of this law on a whole other topic, and that's the geronto housewives, nannyes, etc. And that's an important topic, and taking care of old people is an important topic, and it's mostly an important topic to pass laws that make it impossible to abuse those old people. But I'm asking you, and because of your first sentence, is it because of the TV cameras this morning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33493	Replication response, Vishnya Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33494	Here, what I said at the beginning really, I mean you can think whatever you want, but it's not about the cameras. Because if it was the cameras, she'd probably say different, 'cause I mean, personally, it doesn't matter to me. However, caused by that, I said just because today in these discussions, I did not count how many times children with developmental difficulties were mentioned. They were mentioned, I don't know, I don't know how many times, and because of that part, and that's how I talked when I said it because I said it in the replica before, it doesn't mean that I said it, but we all knew it through committees and through everything that the D.A.'s Attorney for Persons with Disabilities didn't comment on it. And in that part of it, I thought it was an area, if the lawyer I speak to for the third time was extremely esteemed and respected, and that's why I started my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33495	We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, she's a colleague of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33496	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honors Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll try to argue at the level of the profession. Although it may sound very strange to someone, the top five parental anxiety, or fears, is statistically determined as follows: 5th place is the fear that a child will have problems with physical appearance, or weight, will be threatened or suffer from anorexia. 4th in a row the most common parental anxiety is bullying, whether my child will fit in with society and whether it will be accepted. 3. The anxiety of frequency is she from accident and injury, in second place she is worried that someone will attack or hurt my child and eventually the most common anxiety of all parents is based on large and sometimes too much expectations of them, parents, whether my child will get education and opportunities to take full advantage of their potentials. So the choice offered by the Nanny Act is welcome. Parents can use outside of institutional service, nanny services to ease their own fears, the child will be taken care of in a smaller group, if the parent wants to and if he can. In his own home he will only have a nanny for his child, or children, he will not run his nose constantly, he will not drink an antibiotic once in two months, he will not be wet for a minute longer than necessary, he will have an unlimited rhythm of sleep, games and feeding. On the other hand, they can choose institutional preschool education, i.e. kindergarten where educated educators and educators who know and understand where the child is at a certain point in their development and what are the impacts that contribute, particularly psychological and social, because childhood is a period of rapid and complex development, the impact of early childhood influences entire later development. Knowing the nature of the early development process helps to understand later complex behaviours. And by knowing children's development, we are more competent to bring changes into the life of a child and solve the problems that childhood carries. The kindergartens in Croatia carry out developmental programs that are sufficiently open to the needs of the child and his family to have a clear, highlighted interactive dimension with a tendency to become a transactional, i.e. enable the child to have an active impact on the kindergarten from space, equipment to content and mode of interaction with the breeder. However, kindergartens in Croatia often have waiting lists. With this law, parents will be able to, with the possible participation of the city or municipality, which will make the decision on co-financing based on their programme of childcare, insight into waiting lists or recognition of the specific individual needs of the child, fully outrun that period by using nanny services, and overcome all your fears, to direct a child into a world that allows the child to express his personality, his interests, habits and attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33497	Thank you. Next in an individual debate, Martina Banic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33498	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. For the final proposal of the Law on Nannys, we can say that the attempt to improve aid and support primarily young families who are given with the addition of living standards, daily struggles for existence are also faced with long waiting lists in kindergartens. Today, there are over five thousand children left without their place in kindergarten. It's the hardest thing for parents to do with babies. There are only 202 places for them in all kindergartens in the country and only five cities in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Pula and Osijek. There are no institutions in other cities that parents could trust a child less than a year old. This is certainly why, according to some rough estimates in Croatia, there are about 15 babysitters who do their job all the way to their last job without bills and without internships. Their parents pay between two and a half thousand and three thousand kuna sometimes even five thousand kunas and more for the care of a child who sometimes includes doing household chores. We can say that the Law on Nannys is the result of a need in society to provide children who do not have adequate care because of preblocked kindergartens. The aunts who guard children and some do it their whole life have not had the opportunity to legalize their work in Croatia, and now it will be possible and this law will no longer work on black. And so I can say that this law and step that should go in the direction of professionalising nanny interest and establishing a quality service that will meet the needs of parents and be in the interest of children. In Croatia there is a lack of institutional capacity for the accommodation of preschool children and a surplus of unemployed women in particular. We face the fact that 700 people are out of work a day and that the number of unemployed people is growing dizzy, that every third unemployed person is under 34 years old. This law of hope is for a part of women who also see a chance of self-employment in the nanny’s work that has been resorted mostly to by housewives, young pensioners or students at the end of their studies. My colleagues and colleagues are pleased that the Nanny Law had the opportunity to come to the Assembly in two readings, and yet some of the suggestions in the previous debate are appreciated. The proposals were thus accepted to remove from the proposed law provisions allowing the nanny's activity to be carried out within the framework of a company and cooperative. The possibility of the establishment of companies by the nanny opened up a large space for manipulation and abuse. It also accepted an observation concerning the need for auxiliary nannies to be entered in a special directory as well as a more precise regulation of the work carried out by the auxiliary nanny. The same extension has been made for another year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The first reading discussed this particular article a great deal, and it was a good thing that it was changed, or that the word had been removed, because it was in the preceding article. "That units of local and regional administrations and self-government are obliged to subsidise their activities." We are aware of the situation in local self-government and their budgets that are very thin. However, the issue remains about family centres and their role and importance. In addition to not having organised family centres in all counties, the issue remains of existing teamwork and setting out a clearer way of working since they are before them the job of establishing the conditions for carrying out nanny activities. It is therefore necessary to find a solution to empowering family centers. Furthermore, I think that the criteria for not being children of the year and, for example, in the same group were to be established. 10 years old because children of a year and 10 years of age do not have the same needs, do not have the same interests, and I think that should be given the same thought. I will also mention children with developmental difficulties, I also appreciate the Ombudsman’s opinion of people with disabilities, but I do not think it is good that the law strictly predicts that for each child with developmental difficulties the number of children is reduced by one per watch. I think it was necessary to assess what difficulties these difficulties are, and accordingly to decide whether it is enough to reduce it by one child or maybe it takes two children or more. When I mention children with developmental difficulties, I would like to remind myself of the open letter from parents of children with disabilities in the group to help children with disabilities who sent the letter to the prime minister and in which they actually express their dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. Parents claim that these ministries have done nothing to address at least part of the problems that parents of disabled children face. My colleagues and colleagues really appreciate all the efforts that seem to make life easier for families in Croatia and to give them a decent life. That's why I support the Nanny Act, but we can't let the most vulnerable groups of our society go into the streets looking for a solution to their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33499	Thank you. It's my colleague Ivanka Roksandić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33500	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honors Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Well, here we have heard a lot today in the second reading in this law. I think that he is important and important, above all, in order to strengthen the family and provide support mainly to young families who are certain in this society where they meet daily, I will also say with a lack of property because I come from a place where more and more people are unemployed, where in the last month and more thousands of people are out of work, and this young people according to data from the Institute of Employment in Sisak. They really need to be able to make at least one part of their problems, and that's taking care of the children easier. Are we going to do this with this law? It's a question that's being asked so I'll say from all our discussions. Why? What we did in our first reading that we all improved the law together is evident. It is evident that it remains here that this activity can be carried out, I apologize exclusively through the registration of the crafts and that's good. But after what happens these days with craftsmen, what happens to bill announcements, about VAT collection, I'm afraid none of these 130 nannies who are qualified to carry out this activity will certainly be decided upon during this period that they have been allowed from one year to another to register this trade. Why? It's from what the uncertainty of their survival of the crafts is, above all, very uncertain today. Today, we keep mentioning 15 thousand nannies working on black. My colleagues and colleagues, I think we're wrong. They're not nannies, they're people who keep their children black, they're really not regulated by this activity. We in Croatia today according to the data we have about 130 people who are trained to do nanny work. It can't be any midwife who's not trained. She can, she has the right to look after her granddaughter's children but she won't be a nanny. I think we need to stress that here. I fear that in these discussions, the same as in the debates on the co-financing of nanny jobs is at stake in the survival of kindergartens. My colleagues and colleagues, from the very debate about this law, I think we've got something wrong, we've confused what's called the Preschool Law and this Nanny Act. I'd call him too on extra-institutional care in the field of child care. Why did we mess that up? Because we say that it is now possible and it is good that you accept that, as counterpart Banic said, there is no longer in Article 37 of the law, this word is required by the local self-government unit to co-finance the work of the nanny, and we need to know that the Law on Preschool Education and defines that the units of local self-government and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government also defines that the jobs of pre-school education are co-financed by cities and municipalities in their own field, and some units have already said financially on their knees, can't even co-finance that activity, I can't co-finance the activity of basic education which is also regulated by law. Why do I mention elementary school? Well, I'll tell you why. This law allows nannies to have children until the age of 14. Which would mean to the local self-government unit, the city, the municipality, that if a parent chooses a nanny and protects a child from the age of 7 to 14 that he must co-finance, I would also say extended stay in primary schools. Is then children who go to kindergarten, and we know that units of local self-government co-finance kindergartens, so children up to the 7th year of life until school will have co-financing programs, and those that are in eventually in so-called. An extended stay in primary schools, those units of local self-government that cannot co-finance the programme will not and will not co-finance it. But if a parent takes a nanny and guards a child at 7, 8, 9, 10 years old, then he should co-finance the care and care of such a child. I don't think all parents' options are even, if not all parents weren't equal, and that wouldn't be good. I also want to point out some other problems. It is good that you have accepted, and today no one here has talked about the education or training of the person for the nanny, that in Article 22. 23. you have found more precisely that these training jobs can be carried out exclusively by that educational institution that deals with adult education, that this institution has obtained the permission of the education ministry, because I am afraid that the various or associations or institutions that are here will only ask that the nanny training not be well trained, so it is good that these Articles are 22. 23. Something else I warned about when I first read this law and the debate was also article 26. In her response and to the committee I participated in, and also at the plenary session of the minister, she said that the Ministry of Administration was in fact, and it seems to me that this article, and I suggested that it be precisely defined in Article 26, which determines the conditions of the spatial conditions to be implemented, kept or used by the nanny. It's now listed as the state administration's office. We know that these offices of the state administration are organized differently by county. So in one county, it could be done by the Department of Economy in another Social Activities. Why does it matter? It is important that such spatial conditions are uniform. I hope that the regulations that the ministry will adopt will meet the exact criteria that these spatial conditions need to be met. Then we could possibly stand this office of state administration in the county. I believe that the Croatian Nanny Association will also be satisfied with this deadline that you have moved and has been extended to one year since the entry into force of the law to adapt them to their business and to adapt to this law. But there is something I must mention to the Minister, again and in this final second reading, the proposal that no additional financial resources are needed to implement this law. This is very often found by colleagues and colleagues in the proposals for different laws, but that is not true. That's not true because some colleagues mentioned family centers. The family centers that have played a very important role here, we welcome, but we must say that these family centers and a few colleagues have already said that, and a colleague, they are not teamed up. You have when you look at all the family centers of the most family, one family centre that has 8 employees, and they have 3, 5 to 8 employees for these jobs we are now giving them, which are very important and responsible at the family center, and I think they should work them, I don't think there will be enough employees here and that you will need to provide real additional funding in the state budget to team up family centres. And one more thing, I think that big obligations, you've given high authority to the welfare centres of your colleagues and colleagues, but unfortunately, in a year in those centres, nothing happened except the change of the director of the center, and I think that there are people who are doing the same, who are not getting enough of the same, according to other laws that are related to social care and very much of the obligations and responsibilities. It's a good law, I think we need to support it, but I think we need to be colleagues and colleagues, and from today's debate, we have to deal with other problems within social care because it's really an important area in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33501	Thank you very much. Replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33502	So here's a colleague you're calling in your debate which was very interesting probably as a person who has some experience from that entire sector and working and living, in some way further standardizing that entire system and further institutional decorum. Let's take a look at things from another point of view. We've had practice, this is what we have, for decades, this practice of babysitting. How many examples of negative phenomena do we have, how many examples of some forms of violence against children, child abuse, let's say from the system we've had so far so that we don't do anything about it. I don't think that system as it was so far, whatever it was, was on the black, on the white, on the colorful, didn't bring so many negative phenomena in raising children. And now this extra standardization that you're calling for, which is norming, which is kind of licensing, so what are the extra standards for spaces, and then the extra cost to local self-government, do we really have to limit everything by law? Will there be any more space left in this society for a little bit of freedom, that people can live and work normally without being systematically mutilated and framed? And on the other hand, what I fully agree with is, of course, the problem of municipalities and cities and counties that must always take over one part of their obligations, burdens and responsibilities and in this part, and in fact their fiscal capacity is getting smaller and smaller and smaller, and additional tasks are constantly being put ahead of them and additional financial burdens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33503	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33504	Thank you. Look, I don't think you understand me completely. I did not advocate further than just that some things within the existing bill are really well regulated because if we have declared this an activity, and we have and this law is rightly regulated and this activity will be carried out through crafts, so the Law on crafts has its own legality. And I totally agree with you that we've had what we call and nice so far, and we'll never leave, and today we've heard, this grandmother service, the aunt service, whatever you want to call it, who's also been putting in some family values, and here I agree with my colleague Hrga, I think he said it, it's not going to be able to bring in this one warmth and a family one atmosphere that's going to make us a grandmother service, an aunt service, let's call it whatever we want. And this woman, the nanny who will be devoted to one, two, five or ten children as much as she will eventually have to look after, but if we regulate it within the crafts, and we regulated it by the proposal of this law, then we will have to meet some of the spatial conditions and conditions of training that result from that person being able to carry out that activity at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33505	Replica, Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33506	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Roxandić, here's a colleague who just warned about what we've been saying all this time, but I'm going to remind you one more time. So the law removed the possibility of something having to be thought about co-financing or participation of the city or municipality, but we are all aware that each city, every municipality, is located in the so-called so-called city. the limited financial frameworks and the growing financial opportunities. Therefore, it concerns one explanation which, by explaining the Nanny Act, the minister herself, is that this will test the social sensitivity of individual mayors and mayors, which I think is absolutely inappropriate, so I guess it won't turn out that a colleague in Vodice is less socially sensitive because, for example, she won't have the opportunity to finance it. So we speak a clear language of what it's really about. When we talk about some fears about whether a child will be raised one way or another, I think the greatest anxiety of young parents is how they will find a job so that the nanny can pay for it, whether it's co-financed or not. So the fear of VAT is 25%, the fear it collects every day is that consumer basket and the less people can afford it. As far as family centres are concerned, I will only warn that more and more is being said about the fact that family centres are actually going to be abolished, so it is said about what you said instead of what you said yourself, which is that family centres should be strengthened, that their capacities should be strengthened, that staff teams should be trained, which means that they should also provide additional funds that are not provided here. Family centers, I'll just end up with this, threatening danger. Maybe if we don't get a rulebook, because we have this six-month vacuum, and I think it's extremely important, and we need to think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33507	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33508	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague, Glavak, you've noticed well. I also tried to point out in my debate that there would be differences between units of local self-government and administration. You mentioned Vodice. I will mention one case of the Croatian Kostajnica which hurts me strongly, a small town which I will say has also a large, large unemployment. The only company that works is exactly what the former Poones known for clothing production. So let's call so-called. The female company in which most women work, and imagine there is the survival of kindergarten because it has simply been working for months and aunts from kindergarten for almost free. They do not receive pay, they themselves travel to work by means of their means, because simply the mayor has no funds, not on his knees, Croatia Kostanica is almost finished, the town of Croatia Kostanica has been financially supported from the state budget for years by the survival of this kindergarten. Unfortunately, last year is not, there is no chance this year, and there will be no question about helping children in any way in kindergarten or foster care. You said it was important for young families. Well, even in my introduction, I said that this is primarily a law that needs to strengthen the assistance of young families, and I heard about family centers, but I just don't think anything like that could happen. Because it has been shown throughout the years since family centers were created that they are very important institutions and for the preservation of the family, they have taken over from the welfare center a very important area of family counseling, help families that are often in difficulty. I think by shutting down these family centers, we would lose a very important institution that we are not even aware of, and I can't just believe that the ministry is seriously considering it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33509	We're continuing the debate. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's on her way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33510	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here I think, unlike some colleagues here, what they've shown in replicas and discussions, here's my colleague Đurovic. I think this law should be passed. In fact, this law covers one activity that took place in fact, in turn. Therefore, the provision of compensation services was not legally regulated, and this was a field of uncertainty for both children and parents, as well as for the service providers themselves. We will not influence or destroy God or forbid what you call a grandmother service. Grandma's service is to protect children from grandmothers or other relatives as non-chargeable, therefore it is not subject to this law. As regards outside of institutional care, it is therefore drawn up by strategic documents in this area, namely national family policy, national population policy. In social care activities, this outside institutional activity is desirable, as it is estimated that users are also satisfied and that it is more effective. But what should always be pointed out is that, in any case, leaving important social affairs, and certainly care for the most vulnerable groups of society, that is, social care, that in these cases requires strong control of state institutions and supervision in doing these jobs. So as I said, I think this law should be passed. He's been preparing for his adoption for many years, but here I am saddened that we are going to pass this law, that we will vote him but that he will remain inconclusive. At the very least, it will remain inconclusive for a further six months at least. Therefore, in addition to regretting that some of the remarks that we made in the first reading were not accepted here, it is also left in transitional and final provisions, so that the long term left to the ministry to adopt regulations without which this activity cannot actually be carried out at all. Here's the thing. Therefore, the Regulation of Article 32 concerning the establishment of the Nanny Register will be adopted within 6 months, and no nanny will be able to register unless she is in the Nanny Register, which means that six months ago she will not have the possibility to sign in and cannot start with that activity. The same long term of 6 months has been left behind and I really don't understand, and I talked about it in my first reading why it takes 6 months for the ministry to pass the law and prepare the law for over half a year why it can't prepare those sublaws in parallel. So, and for the rules on the enforcement of surveillance, it will also take 6 months. So that surveillance won't be possible before that. In the head of surveillance too remained the same mess that was either a little better than the one that was in the first reading. Therefore, the surveillance provisions are repeated in a way that says that the supervision of the implementation of this law is carried out by the ministry responsible for social care through its inspectors. But then it is said that the inspection is carried out by a state inspector, of course according to special regulations. But as far as the State Inspectorate is concerned, he will oversee what is required under other laws. Therefore, this is about the implementation of other laws that will accidentally be within the nanny’s activities will be supervised by the implementation of certain other health or health laws. So, that should have been said more clearly. And, of course, expert supervision of family centres, which I was also talking about where they're said to be able to monitor it, so they'll never know whether or not they can, who's going to do professional surveillance. Also, in Article 40, where is it said that inspectors and authorized persons, what? Those from the family centre to whom this authorisation was granted by the Director of the Family Centre, will establish the identity of persons etc. It's just not gonna be possible. Therefore, I do not think that the entire stream of these surveillance articles is well solved, and even if the regulation is waiting six months that this surveillance will not be possible. Why can't this surveillance be carried out yet? For a simple reason, because it says again that there will be no need for additional funds to implement this law. I don't know if it's possible, but then I don't know how and by what methodology of budget preparation did the ministry already install this bill into the budget, so the budget already provides funds for future legislation to be passed? Then maybe this could fit the truth. But it doesn't seem like it. Therefore, no funding has been provided, and family centres with those human resources, teaming and financial facilities will certainly not be able to carry out all those jobs that they have received as additional jobs under this law. So here are some doubts, a few indications that we're passing the law I repeat should be passed but it will be passed, and it will not be enforceable. It is equally nootechnic in collateral and it is not accepted that the first-reading remark is made, which states in Article 15 that the work of the nanny in the residential and business premises can be kept at the same time, taken care of and cared for by up to 6 children, and then in the following article, the last article states that the work of the nanny in the residential and business space can be kept at the same time for up to 12 children. So two articles of this law are collapsing. I understand the intensities of the legislator, so it was meant to be said that one nanny can keep up to 6 children at the same time, so that they can hire other nannies and auxiliaries and that in that case the number of children cannot cross 12. It's the applicant's intensity, but it doesn't say it in this law, but you have two articles that you have in college. And it doesn't mean, it's not clear whether the nanny has six children, or whether it's up to 12. And that should be clearly limited. I suggest that in Article 15(1) you write that in carrying out the nanny’s activities, because you are now talking about the nanny’s activity, you cannot keep more than 12 children at the same time in the residential and business space. It's a provision. And then every nanny can look after six kids at the same time. It would have been so sophisticated that it would have been clear and it wouldn't have been in collegiate. And I will only look back at Article 8 which speaks about the nannies that are citizens of EU Member States and States of Contracting Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area. I point only to the danger, and the nannies will not have to have a residence or an approved stay in the Republic of Croatia, they will be able to be secured as craftsmen anywhere across Europe or Contracting Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area. And now imagine some citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have had some kind of business relationship and who intend to pull something out of such insurance where the insurance company must neither have a seat in the territory of Croatia but anywhere in the EU or in another country that will reach its rights. I don't know if it's a commitment from negotiations with the EU, I'm not sure, but I don't think it's good for our citizens. Here, unfortunately this is the final text, can only be intervened by amendment but I am sorry that several good remarks from the first reading are not respected, and I am particularly sorry that no funds are provided for the implementation of the law. You know, with all the talks with the EU, that's what we learned in the West if we talk about learning something first is what you're going to do, with what financial and personnel capacity are you going to do it with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33511	The Republic has Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33512	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm actually intrigued by my colleague, Lovrin, right now, because you said that grandmas are free from this law. I haven't been able to find it, so I'll ask you if it says it somewhere that you tell us because if it doesn't say it then we have a problem because the inspections will, of course, run into the grandmothers, if it's not registered anywhere and regulated by the law that those in the family are being released, so registration and payment of taxes, then it will happen as it happens in other sectors, so there will be problems because there will, of course, be reports, there will be criminally diverse provisions where people will pay fines. Well, here's what if you can, if you found it somewhere I'd like you to help me out a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33513	Replication response, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33514	Thank you very much. My colleague, that's not what it says in this law, but I think it's analogous and joint application of other laws, let's say the Law on Unregistered Activity, the Law on craftsmanship, etc., that if the service is provided without charge and within the family that it will not be subject to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33515	And Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33516	Thank you. So here is MP Lovrin, I, unlike you, deeply believe that this law is completely unnecessary to Croatian society and otherwise we don't need such laws at all, that we are actually needlessly, completely unnecessaryly exhausting ourselves with these things because the practice so far and the way things are, has shown them that things have worked, here are both without this law and without this great normity. Also, I don't know if you share that worldview, I believe that man was created in God's image and opportunity, and that man should not lose that aspect, nor another man who works, nor another man who lives. And that we can't all focus on the norms. In the case of babysitting, we don't need to create normatives as if it were building buildings or editing, I don't know the water contribution. So this is, after all, a childcare and care activity. Therefore, our fundamental problem cannot be whether we have set enough restrictive standards for those who are engaged in this activity, but whether we have created assumptions that something is better and better quality than it has ever been. I don't see what assumptions we've created by creating a new set of craftsmen that we're going to freak out by these and those criteria, these craftsmen are going to be licensed, and we're going to establish some kind of normative, all in a state and society where fewer and fewer children are born and in which, unfortunately, we're not dealing with the issue of population policy, the need to protect these children, because unfortunately, these children are getting less and less and less. And in the end, I still believe more in what, the man I'm about to see, who's going to guard my child or the recommendation I'm going to get from someone, rather than whether he's going to be licensed by the state or by some institution for that activity or not. And he wouldn't throw away the question of those recommendations that he's going over so easily, because we don't need recommendations anymore, we now have licenses. We have licenses for everything in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33517	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Replication response, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33518	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I answered at the beginning. So, colleague Djurovic, here we disagree obviously. I would never agree if it worked so well so far. The fact is that it was actually done, it was done with payment, and parents were very often forced to give children for such care for a simple reason because they did not have organised or under-organized care in their local unit through kindergartens. Some local units have achieved this, what they need, here I will say, for example of the City of Zadar, saying that there is actually no child who can't get a place in kindergarten, but not just because Zadar had the means to build kindergartens, but because he decided to co-finance, or subsidize private kindergartens in the same way he does with his kindergartens. And since then, because the main reason why parents didn't give children to private kindergartens is because they were more expensive than the city's, now these prices are equal, the private initiative has proved, the city shouldn't have millions to build buildings for kindergartens and children are taken care of. Similarly, in these cases of registered, registered nanny activities will reach out and be safe for both parents and children, but also for providers of services of those same nannies that have so far been unprotected in view of their social rights, labour rights. Equally, I think it is necessary to be very careful who the child is entrusted to, and I think it is normal to have some control of how education is done, as well as the execution of that service. 'Cause you're not gonna tell me that you think it's okay to, say, watch out for old people now, so homes are set up that aren't going to be anywhere, nowhere to be registered, and no one's going to be watching them. And in the end, it's also about the gray economy and the unregistered activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33519	Thank you very much, thank you. The speech was requested by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth Milanka Opačić. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33520	Thank you very much. I'd just like to say very briefly on what the representative said, Mrs. Lovrin, about the rulebook. In fact, we've given this six-month deadline, but we've already started doing regulations. One part of the rulebook is over, and it is in the working group's opinion, the other part of the rulebook is in the works, so we expect that we will have these rules very quickly because we know that every law often falls on our rules, so we started working in parallel with the end of this law. And as far as the financial resources are concerned, this law that has passed the European Commission has not been made any objections because there will really be no additional means to implement this law, so it is not the law that we comply with because of those provisions, but here we are entering the EU 1.7, and since it is the same about certain labour relations and everything else, so this is the law that passed the European Commission and got the green light from them without any obstacles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33521	Thank you very much. We continue with an individual debate, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33522	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary with an assistant. I think we can all agree that every law that deals with the welfare of our children, and this one certainly requires extra attention and focus. It should, of course, be welcomed and commended that this segment is finally taken care of by children, or introduced into the system. The need for nannies is not new, it dates forever, namely, and our families change. You know that young people used to live with the elderly, that they used to be aunts who weren't getting married but were babysitting. However, family changes, and that is why other things should be considered. With the need to exist, in fact, which exists, means the need for nannies is further taking place the constant development and progress of Croatian society, more and more new customs are opening up, new forms of work, working hours are becoming dynamic, coming out of the framework of former fixed time intervals, locations of working times are also changing. There is therefore very fluid and unchangeable and there is still a number of other changes in the labour market, and all these changes certainly cause more and more young people to plan, or to think about when to create a family, or when to expand their family. Unfortunately, that's also what statistics tell us that we're getting smaller and today we've seen here in the discussions that we're talking about a bad birth rate. We are also getting older and we do not need to talk about what kind of coincidence this leaves on the health system or pension system. That is why I say that this law can fall within the realm of a innovative strategy or policy because it enables the existence of a high-quality and flexible care and care service for children, thus raising the quality of life of our young parents and, on the other hand, the quality of life and raising their children. This is therefore very important, and therefore I say that this is part of the most intelligent policy, in a positive policy of intelligence because it is very important for planning or calculating how many children to have. It is especially important to point out that this service that exists, how much it actually needs. You shouldn't watch them compete with kindergartens. Today we had different points of view. Some colleagues have said that it could be competition for kindergartens or institutional concerns, but this clearly says that it is not true. It is precisely by respecting the recommendation not to go into the registration of companies that would provide a service. It actually says that this cannot be a competition for institutional care or kindergartens. Of course this is one supplement to the existing childcare system. The new law requires what is most necessary and important when we talk about childcare and it is actually competence. We're talking about the education of a nanny who, in my opinion, is a very key component or a conditional component. She's not just important to children, to parents. She's very important to the nanny herself. Why? Because education, or knowledge, is a tool for the nanny herself that makes it easier for her to do her job. About the consciousness that are all obstacles, problems and appearances in front of the nannies in her work is actually just the task of education. It is often said that it is best to learn from mistakes, but unfortunately not from your own, but from someone else's. It is education that prevents learning from making mistakes and helps to learn from someone else’s mistakes. Here, it should be pointed out as far as education is concerned that it is not enough to pass a course alone to obtain a certificate, but also what the law emphasises is that there are continuous educations or continuous registrations. It was about craftsmanship today, whether it was a question, whether it would be a question of resolving craftsmanship, etc. So here we are in cooperation, it is the Law of Cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. We know there are a lot of requests to open the craftsmen right now. However, he has not become any legal acts that could have been achieved so far. The management and opening of nanny crafts should not be a burden precisely because the Ministry of Entrepreneurship has improved or facilitated the whole process of opening the crafts. However, there is a need to think about it, and I think that the Minister in this direction and stressed, you are creating a new way of employment in the form of nanny employment because when you look at examples in the EU, then EU countries can actually look at examples of good practice, or apply it to us. Therefore, they can again, or conclude that the existence of a nanny is necessary, that it must be as flexible as possible with regard to their legal status as well as in the way in which they are provided. Nannys must be educated, which is in their interest as well as in the interests of parents of children and society as a whole. And as for local communities, they should provide additional services. Today, there have been a lot of disagreements over the role of local communities, whether there are funds for it or not. I am of the opinion that the local community normally cares about preschool age or preschool children that this is a much cheaper way than otherwise institutional, of course, that I cannot measure or compare what is important institutionally or outside institutionally. However, I must say that every leader of the local community must think about the care of children. It must therefore find funding for social policy because it is very important. And even at the end of the last year, a growing number of mothers who return to work after the first six months used have also proved that each child under one year requires individual work because it is emotionally, sociologically and psychologically related in fact to a small number of persons and precisely if the grandmother is a service and aunt if impossible, if the grandmothers are employed or members of the household, then it is certainly necessary to reach out to this register. Here and now I'm going to say as a grandmother, I'm sure I'll think about my little Corinne for a nanny register, a nanny who'll have a certificate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33523	Replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33524	So I can agree with you that every head of local self-government must have consciousness and conscience about this social concern. And at least here I am recognized in my city of Djakovo as such is about 15% of the budget that has been excluded from this fiscal decentralisation, according to social care and according to the institutional frameworks of pre-school education. But suppose many units of local self - government have that possibility, since they have a hundred million kunas of their own budget. The city of Đakovo has a source budget of about 40 million kuna somewhere, that many parents and I mean not only the city of Đakovo but also the entire Slavonia and Baranja, which unfortunately became the most lagging region not for Vinković or HDSSB but also for all these 20 years and for relations with Slavonia and Baranja became the most lagging region, that you have and now you will have a proposal for minimum wage of 2900 kuna and if someone is lucky to work. So it's about 5800 kuna, and the consumer basket right here in Vukovar is 7300 and the town of Vukovar is the second city by cost in the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm asking you how one parent will give or both parents, not to tell a woman an active business capable woman how she's going to put that child on guard, if I say the economic price is almost up to 2,000 kuna. The town of Đakovo also supports private kindergartens and Montessori kindergartens, has its own kindergarten with its founder. There are 50 employees in that kindergarten. Let's think about it a little bit, and first of all, let's go to real decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33525	Thank you. The answer to the replica Tatjna Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33526	Thank you very much. You spoke about the town of Djakov, and I will say about the city of Dubrovnik with respect to every unit of local self-government in Croatia and I understand that we cannot all be the same. I understand that we need to pursue as much standard as possible and ultimately the role of local self-government leader is that they give to their citizens if they can't at the state level to give a standard that's beyond standard. You mentioned Đakovo, I'll mention Dubrovnik, that we finance teaching assistants, that we finance extended stays, that we're a city without waiting lists, that we have the biggest donations to the pensioners. We can, but trust innovative thinking, by creating a program, by looking at the state policy as well as with the Employment Office, we're doing a variety of programs. In addition, there are agencies, the Development Agency and with them we can also work and there are programmes and we can apply to European funds. We only have options to wish for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33527	Thank you. Now we're gonna stop the debate. I'm setting a break until 3:00. First in a single debate Nadica Jelash
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33528	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. It's next, Honourable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33529	Dear Vice President, assistant minister, respected few colleagues and colleagues. Here is the fact that, in the debate so far, a lot has been said about the Nanny Act, that it has been painted almost from all aspects I will concentrate in my debate on only one segment, so I would like to highlight one enormous importance, one of the very important roles of family centres in this law and, for the further course of the debate and the emphasis on what I want to say, I would really like to remind myself of what this through this law, family centres must do. So this is how family centres make decisions on meeting or failing to meet the conditions for carrying out the nanny's activities. Furthermore, in the process of establishing the conditions for a nanny or an auxiliary nanny, the family centres under official duty will have to obtain evidence that persons are not legally convicted of certain criminal offences, that they do not have a safety or protective measure to prohibit the exercise of their activities and that they do not have a imposed criminal sanction for domestic violence. Furthermore, if the nanny carries out the childcare activity in his living space in that case, the family centre again, on official duty, shall obtain all the evidence referred to above, both for all household members and for the nanny, so that members of the household are not legally convicted of certain criminal offences, that there are no security or protective measures or criminal sanctions against domestic violence. Furthermore, the family center provides a report from the competent social care center on the family opportunities of a potential nanny because the disease of one of its household members is the reason why the nanny will not get a positive solution for carrying out childcare activities. Furthermore, the family center is supplied by the competent doctor of family medicine to confirm the health of family members as the nanny will not be able to carry out childcare activities if the relationship between members of the household of a potential nanny is impaired. Furthermore, the family center has to check whether a potential nanny is provided in the residential or business areas, but rather family home or foster care services, as in this case, it will not be possible to carry out childcare activities again. In addition, the family centre shall enroll a craftsman in the register of persons carrying out the work of the nanny, or delete it from that register if the conditions or one of the conditions required for carrying out the activity are no longer met. Furthermore, the family center keeps the register and regularly updates it in line with the changes required to report a craftsman or a nanny. The family center is further run by the nanny and assistant nanny directory and provides a solution to the registration or erasure of the nanny and the assistant nanny from the directory. And in the end, I just ended up putting it because what I think is absolutely the most important thing, family centres through their professional workers can also carry out professional supervision of the implementation of this law, so the implementation of the Nanny Act. So from all that I've said, it's obvious that the family centers play an extremely important role in the operation of this law, and with all the work that we've done so far, it's clear that this law has given them another big and very complex job, which I'm stressing is going to be a field character. So experts from family centres will need to determine field insights to determine certain facts that I have spoken about in advance. I personally really want to believe that this will be done in exactly the same way, therefore by going out on the ground, that it will not be done as it has been in a large number of welfare centres so that decisions have been made from the office, without any insight on the ground, and that could have happened on the ground to say in Međimurje in the woods, that there are two children living in no records, who do not attend school, so literally living in terms of the 17th century. Or let's just say that there are family tragedies that wouldn't have to happen that the welfare center controlled the events in the family. What led me to say was whether the family centres were primarily humane and then materially qualified to work with this existing job and such a demanding and complex job related to the operationalization of the Nanny Act. And another actually more important question than this is who will be doing these jobs in the county where there are no family centers, and there are such counties. Here is specifically the Međimurje County, so the Međimurje County has established a family centre but it is not in office, so its status is undefined. All in all, this debate of mine is actually an appeal that the family centers are not being reduced if such ideas existed I might say so. However, I appeal that the family centers are strengthened, teamed up, and where they are formally present, so where they are founded and don't really function as soon as possible. And that's what I'm primarily saying again, I'm thinking about the Family Center in Međimurje County. Because if a family centre is needed anywhere, then it is precisely in Međimurje and not only because of this Nanny Act, but because of a number of specificities in the County of Međimurje itself, of which it is certainly most important that we have the highest relative share, therefore the largest percentage of the Roma population in the total population, which is why, of course, the Centre for Social Care is mainly concerned and almost 80% of the budget of the Centre for Social Care is spent precisely on the needs of the Roma population. And to conclude in the end. This law is definitely a good law and it solves one big and one complex problem. And I can't accept the thoughts of some HDSSB colleagues that he's unnecessary. So, the very fact that so far has taken place in reality this mass childcare activity but in an illegal unacceptable way. So, that fact itself says that this law is necessary, but here in the context of what I said in advance, it would not be good for the family centres to become the weakest or to be the weakest link in the operationalization of this law because the law intended them to be the strongest link in the operationalization of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33530	Thank you. We have a single replica reported to this exhibit, a respected colleague of the Sun's Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, the Family Center in Međimurje County as you said there is. However, the second question is why since August last year when we have a director at the Family Centre in Međimurje County, the ministry has not asked what is going on there. So it's the most beautiful job in the world and the best executive position currently in Croatia to be the director of nothing. So I'm asking a question here and the minister why no one asks why nothing has been done since August last year. Of course, you were talking about the specificities of the Međimurje County. There's more. And absolutely that we need the Family Center, but I will warn just as well that the Međimurje County, or the government in Međimurje County, headed by the SDP, was stalling and we did not have in spite of the planned funds then from the ministry, was not willing to open the Family Centre. And you know very well that's the case. So I ask the question why no one asks since August last year why people aren't employed as long as they needed, why they haven't given the conditions, if anyone even asks what's going on there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33532	The replica will be answered by a respected colleague named Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33533	My colleague Glavak, so you know that the story of the establishment of the Family Centre has been extended since 2007, and we know who was in power in Međimurje County in 2007, 2008 and the first half of 2009. So the Family Center was founded, we were all happy about it, and on the question of why he's not in office, so hopefully we'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33534	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. A distinguished representative, Đurjica Sumrak, has applied for the debate. She's gone, so she loses the right to discuss this matter. A colleague, Zoran Vinkovic, also applied for the debate. He's not here either, and he's losing his right to discuss this matter. Does the Minister want a final, final? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33535	Here's a very short one. In the end, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate today. I think it's a big deal that we passed this law. So this is a brand-new law in Croatian legislation. The fact is that the nanny project was also discussed in 2001 in a document that was then done by the State Institute for Family and Youth. This was later also in the national family policy and here in 2013 we finally have a law that regulates the activity of the nanny. As someone here has said in their debate, it is therefore a law that will require careful monitoring and seeing if there are other things that can be done to make it easier for women who want to do the job of the nanny, but also for parents to make the service available to them. And what's much more important is that it's cheaper. Of course, the law can be further developed, changed, nothing is untouchable, and this law is further added precisely because it first moves into its application is something that needs to be followed closely. And here's what happens if there's any need and there's more to be done on this bill after the vote in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33536	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33537	Final proposal of the Nanny Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 214. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 102 votes, we have passed the Nanny Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33538	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Final bill on minimum wage, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 269. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you have received the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Labour and Pension System, respected Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33539	Dear MPs and respected MPs, you also have before you a proposal for a minimum wage law with a final bill of law. As you know in the application of the minimum wage law adopted in 2008 and in the application of that law, and if the argument is read at the time when it was adopted in 2008 where it is said that this law will allow the minimum wage to be paid in relation to the share in the average salary to be raised by up to 39% and 40%, respectively. That was a good intention. A law has been passed, and a formula to establish minimum wage, however, harmonisation and minimum wages have been interpreted in different ways. So one way is by the union, another way is by the government of the Republic of Croatia and this has led to a number of problems in achieving the law itself, i.e. achieving the goal that is recorded, which is that the share of minimum wages in the average salary in the Republic of Croatia is at least 40%. So we have a problem with how to calculate the minimum wage in this law. On the other hand, the minimum wage is adjusted in a way that is one formula published by the State Statistics Office on 31.05. of the current year on the basis of data. So, at a time when economic parameters are already known. On the other hand, the possibility of social partners having an impact on the level of minimum wage is completely excluded and that the minimum wage corresponds to the real situation, i.e. to the economic situation in the country. This is how the minimum wage is determined, so according to the old law, because I hope that by consensus we will adopt this new minimum wage law and I think that we will have better regulated minimum wage with it and that is one of the social mechanisms in the country where you do not allow minimum wage to go below the poverty line. But let me get back to my current situation for a while. Therefore, the minimum wage was established on 1 June. In 2008, it was 2.4% real GDP growth and grew somewhere in May to 2814 kuna. Since then, therefore, the minimum wage has not increased since 2010. So, the formula that was written in this law obviously does not correspond with the economic situation because that formula was influenced by the global economic and financial situation and de facto if we leave the law as it is now the minimum wage will be confused at 2814 kuna until there is a significant increase in GDP. When it comes to GDP decline, then it should not be forgotten that the decline has affected the reduction of paid gross salaries of employees in Croatia, which then raises the question that the reduction in minimum wage, so whether the minimum wage is related to GDP in growth or decline, was the minimum wage due at the time when GDP fell should the old law reduce the minimum wage? Fortunately, this did not happen, and neither did the law foresee the impact of negative GDP developments on the calculation and the level of minimum wage. Again, I note the minimum wage is a social protection instrument to maintain the existential minimum of workers. So it is the price of work below which Croatia should not be paid wages. So that's the minimum part that keeps workers and workers from poverty. So there's a bill before you that's not a big law. So it has everything in common with the transitional provisions of 12 articles. The law that is very important for the Croatian pay policy itself is important for the social partners and therefore, after talking and agreeing with the social partners, we have agreed on a way in which the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia will be harmonised in the future. In order for this harmonisation to be justified, we had to agree on how to calculate this first minimum wage for this year, which parameters to take because obviously the current formula that is in the current law is not good because it simply does not correspond to the economic situation and does not correspond to the situation in the economy. So again, I note that in a formula like this, this way of calculating as it has been, the minimum wage has been replaced by 2814 kuna, and so it would be until further notice. We believe that this is wrong and that minimum wage should be tied to certain parameters and in agreement with the social partners one of the parameters that should be taken into account when calculating the minimum wage is the threshold of the risk of poverty for single-member households. We took the poverty threshold for one-member households in 2011 according to the State Statistics Institute Report, the number of members of the average household in the Republic of Croatia, the ratio of the total number of population in the Republic of Croatia and the number of active population in the Republic of Croatia and the application of the consumer goods index for the period November 2011 to 2012. Let me just point out that we're not, that it's not the formula we invented, so that's the formula used by the International Labour Organisation, the standard formula for calculating minimum wage. Therefore, the basis for calculating minimum wage would be determined as the gross amount of the monthly risk threshold of poverty... households and the number of members of the average household in the Republic of Croatia divided by the ratio of the total number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia and the number of active population according to data provided by the State Statistics Office in accordance with the consumer price index for goods for the period November 2011 to October 2012 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's all the data that's been publicly published and the data behind which is the State Statistics Office. On the basis of these parameters, the amount of minimum wage would be determined by recalculating the minimum wage base, so that the net amount of the base for calculating the increase in the contribution to compulsory income insurance, income tax and the average cut rate of 10%, with the application of the basic deduction according to the specific regulation. By applying the criteria described and the method of calculation, and according to the available data, the minimum wage amount in 2013 would be 2974.99 kuna, so 170 kuna more than it has been so far. So, this way of setting minimum wages for 2013 is in line with the social partners and we have introduced one novelty into the law, which is that we have allowed in collective bargaining, in all those branches that we know are low-accumulated and low-income, it is possible that trade unions together with employers agree and lower minimum wage, but it must not be less than 95% of the minimum wage made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We also removed the minimum wage from the Ministry of Statistics domain because we believe it is in the domain of the Government and should be passed by a regulation, so that for this minimum wage and for the next minimum wages will be passed by the Government of Croatia before the budget is adopted for the following year. In view of the fact that there is a mechanism of Union and employer harmonisation that minimum wage should be made at least 2 months prior to the minimum wage entry into force, so if it enters 1.1.2014, the minimum wage should be fixed by a regulation no later than 10 months. What we aim at in this law is that the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia depends on the strength of our economy and the possibilities of our economy in the future achieve what is the goal, and that is 50% of the net minimum wage. So this is the goal that we want to achieve by this law, which is clearly the previous law, given the formula that was related to the gross domestic product, it was not possible. On the other hand, we open the possibility of collective bargaining, therefore for all branches and for those low-accumulated and all others, that unions together with their employers agree and 5% lower minimum wage with the goal of allowing these branches to be as easy as possible, especially when we talk about the wood, leather and textile industries where the minimum wage would be if trade unions and employers agreed, the minimum wage would increase by 21 kuna instead of 170 kuna. I hope that we will support this proposal in the debate and that the minimum wage and Croatia will grow and prevent labour prices and labour prices from being below the poverty threshold. If we hadn't done this, given the formula that was in the previous law, we'd probably have come very quickly below the poverty threshold. On the other hand, we promote social dialogue and social partnership as well as the adoption of minimum salaries for 2014, 2015 and other years, prior to adoption, we need to implement agreements with social partners, so also with trade unions, and with employers and determine the parameters that we will use in determining minimum wage. On the other hand, we protect the labour price, because the minimum wage agreed for next year cannot be less than the minimum wage agreed last year. So that's how we protect the standard of workers. And finally, I hope that we will avoid in political talks discussions and, yes, I hope that we will get a political consensus on minimum wage because the minimum wage is something that is important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for the workers. So, anything that's good and constructive, whatever happens, we'll be happy to accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33540	Thank you, Minister. We have a few replicas. First honorary colleague Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33541	... I thought my colleague was before me, but it's okay. [[Specially enabled.]] If you say so, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33542	Have you given up on the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33543	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33544	Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33545	It's all right, just take it easy. So, dear Mr. Minister, you said in your opening statement that you were led by the fact that the current calculation formula is not applicable because it would then affect it. It would be negative for our citizens. But you didn't say the same way that the unions advocated applying the formula of an international organisation of work by which this minimum wage would be paid than it is now, would be over three thousand or somewhere around 3080 kuna. However, the most controversial in all of what has been trying to ignore the fact that we in Croatia today have a poverty rate of over 21%, 21.1% of Croatian citizens today live below the poverty level and that since this government came into force, the number of unemployed has increased by 60 thousand in the last 14 months alone, that the average net wage has fallen from the 5720 kuna that ended in November 2011 when the elections ended today to 5400 kuna, these are the fruits of this government's work. And what I especially want to emphasize. You're warning us not to give political speeches. It would have been much better if Croatian citizens had not obeyed the pre-election promises that confirmed the old proverb that the most lies are in love, in hunting, and in pre-election promises. That is the 21 plan, which is one of the biggest delusions of Croatian citizens in recent times, I would say a dozen or more years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33546	In response, respected Labour and Pension System Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33547	So unfortunately, the appeal did not bear fruit, when we talk about the formula in line with the unions, so it is a modified formula of the international organisation of work. On the union's proposal, we also introduced the part that is related to the cost of living, so this is the fruit of a deal between the unions, the government and the employers. Clearly, the minimum wage may be higher, but you must also take into account those branches that will be very difficult to bear and this minimum wage that is now proposed and therefore we have introduced the law so that a lower minimum wage can be agreed but only on the basis of collective bargaining. And as for fruit and fruit harvesting, we'll see in the election in three years, and then we'll see who was right and who was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33548	Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's very interesting that government representatives have started educating MPs lately as they speak. Don't accidentally say something we don't like. Look, Mr. Secretary. We want you here... Then they would tell me about a minimum salary of 4 or 5 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that would be something you call politics. But you made a political speech because when you say that the government will determine the minimum wage and not the Statistics Institute that has all the parameters, it's pure politics. Because if someone has parameters and you exclude economic criteria as the basis for doing something, then it's politics. Because you can't say that you in the government using the parameters published by the State Statistics Bureau, so they're not good at it. And you in the government who use it are. But what's the fact is what you can't escape, which is that it's not good that minimum wage is determined beyond economic criteria. And when you care so much about that minimum wage, then say what about these 370,000 unemployed, what about 8 thousand kunas of young people who have 1600 as some trainee's salary to determine, and even those who could hire trainees no longer hire trainees but use them to work for 1600 kuna. So it's politics and it's politics, because you won't say you say 8,000 people are unemployed. But you won't tell the fact. And give another thing already, stop acting like it's your house. This is our house and we have our own rules about how we're gonna talk here and what we're gonna say and you can laugh all you want. However, these 370,000 Croats on the stock market are not allowed at all, although they are sickened when you say that number will continue to grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33550	And this reply by Labour and Pension System Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33551	So when we talk about the data, I hope you read the law, and probably did. So the minimum wage calculation parameters are the parameters that we get from the State Statistics Institute but the parameters that are now in the current minimum wage law are those that make it impossible for the minimum wage to grow and the minimum wage in four years remains the same and will remain the same forever. With these new parameters in line with the social partners, the minimum wage will correspond to the cost of living and will correspond to the poverty threshold. The current formula, which is related to the increase or fall of the gross domestic product, has led to the fact that the minimum wage has been confused from 2010 to today. She didn't move for any lip. When we speak of who has the authority, therefore, has a government that will adopt a minimum wage regulation but as you can see in the law only after consulting social partners and what we have promoted without agreement with the social partners, it will not be made minimum wage, so it will be linked to the parameters that we agree on and consult with the social partners. And when we talk about 8 thousand young people the measure was welcomed and the measure went on, and I would only look back at 15 thousand of those who were in 2011 pushed into a career education that they didn't care about, and they couldn't get a job, and they went to education just to get them off the Employment and Masking Office to get the number of unemployed. We don't mask the number of unemployed, he's like that, and that's the picture in which Croatia is, but it's not the result of what's going on today, it's what happened in 2008. working and it wasn't working. [[Intruder: Minister's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33552	Next replica and dear colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33553	Thank you very much. Ministers, this law is called the Minimum Payment Act and the assumption that it was written precisely because of workers employed in those branches you mentioned in the low accumulation. Now I don't understand why I still have an additional possibility of a downsizing, regardless of what it is through collective agreements, collective bargaining, but it's already a minimum of minimums, that's already the one to say the bottom threshold, which is to be honest, it's impossible to survive today. What's the point of giving us more opportunity now? And I would disagree that what you said was in some way the modality of reviving collective bargaining. I just think the opposite is that it's practically giving the employers a modality to put extra pressure on the unions through Article 8, to blackmail them. After all, this model that you've offered and agreed with the unions went exactly by that principle take or leave. And then you take the public and then we'll say here's the unions that are against the raise of minimum wages. So that would give a lot of thought about what you said about reviving collective bargaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33554	And this replica is answered by Labour Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33555	I will repeatedly repeat that this law has been passed by harmonising inter-social partners, governments and trade unions and employers, and at the very request of the low-accumulated trade unions, as one of the options is respected, and we have put this as possible to agree and lower minimum wage due to the difficulty of operating in these sectors. Therefore, it is something that allows both trade unions and employers to sit at the table and think about that raising minimum wages can endanger business and agree that the minimum wage will be lower for that year. But also with that minimum wage that's less than 5%, we're allowing the minimum wage to grow somewhere in these branches by 21 kuna, so it won't be confused at the level that it's been confused with. Therefore, it is collective bargaining and it allows at least trade unions and employers in these low-accumulated branches to sit down and agree on how to apply a full minimum wage or agree on 5% less. And that's at the request of the textile union, of the wood industry, of the leather industry, they realize at which point they find that they naturally need to have a higher minimum wage but do not endanger their workplace. But on the other hand, we said no, we're not just gonna limit it to these branches, but we're gonna make it possible for everyone who comes into difficulty to contract a minimum wage of 5% lower, but only through collective bargaining. If you don't go, the minimum wage will be the one the government prescribes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33556	Next replica, dear colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33557	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, it's not easy for you. You are all the time actually in the role of spokeswoman of the Department of Statistics, providing as much data as there are new unemployed. But I'm not sure 21 kuna pay increases will save Croatian workers from poverty. I would say and suggest that you actually try to influence your colleagues in the ministries of crafts, entrepreneurship, the economy that they do something so that you start to give other statistics that the number of unemployed has decreased and the minimum wage increases. We have a situation here that allows for already reduced before the increase. And when I look a little bit better, it seems to me that the minimum wage offered here from now on is going to be equal to the salary of civil servants when it's reduced by the part that's predicted, so those who have 3,000 kunas will pay now with this reduction in principle already slowly on minimum wage. Maybe we should have called that law and then called it... two laws in one. So I think that no matter what the law is, it should be supported, given that any increase is involved, even if it was in pre-election time before the local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33558	We're moving on to the next line. It will be presented by respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33559	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. If the unions are so happy with the alignment with the talks, with dialogue and with this agreement, I don't know why they're threatening the street and why they're going out for May 1st to the squares, to the streets, which is why they're threatening the general strike. It is certain that every raise of the minimumer is commendable for every commendation, pays for anything, and 20 kunas, 50 kuna, 150 kuna or 160 kuna are hard to live for. A colleague will talk more about it on behalf of the club. But I'd just like to look back on that part of yours when you said, I hope we avoid political speeches. In the morning, your colleague from the government, Mrs. Opacic, gave us a political letter, and I'm becoming less and less understanding of the government's performances. You tell us what we can, what we can't say, how we should talk, how you don't teach what political points are, what they're not political, where we can collect political points and where we can collect. Shouldn't the Parliament be spoken politically? So here sits 151 politicians. What else do they do, what you do as a minister, as a doctor at the Ministry of Labour, which makes you an expert in labor rather than political. What the prime minister said yesterday, that he did not want an expert in the government, in the ministry, but wants a political person as a tourism minister. And now you're here telling us don't speak politically. But what to say is, the only thing we're talking about here in the Parliament is that we need to know politically and run a state that you and your government don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33560	The reply is from Labour and Pension System Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33561	About who, what, how he works and how much he works, will be decided by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the elections, so we will see who is successful and who is not. I'm sorry that we're turning very little and we're talking about whether this is a good solution, for the workers, it's not good, but we're turning clearly on other issues which is legitimately right like the legitimate right of the union to announce protests, strikes, and that's legitimately right and naturally that unions will assess what's right for them, which is not. But despite that, we will have to sit at the table again because the street will not solve the problems that Croatia has, 170 billion kunas, a country that has not paid off the principal's kuna for 23 years, so this strike will not solve, and therefore the Government and I and all of us in the Government are calling for it to sit at the table, and this is one of the fruits of a good social dialogue. Maybe on some other topics we didn't have a good social dialogue, we admitted that. We're going to advance, we're going to sit at the table, we're going to agree, but this is a fruit, and I don't know how to convince you that this is the fruit of a good social dialogue, of a conversation, of countless meetings, of thinking and of all that, and like any social dialogue, it's a compromise, of a compromise between one and the other and a third party. Both sides are not 100% satisfied, but they are all pleased that we have a minimum wage law that will lead to minimum wage growth in Croatia and that is why we are passing this law. Under this old law, she won't grow. Point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33562	And the last replica, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33563	Dear Minister, I'm on my way to Zagreb this morning, and my daughter, son and wife ask me where you're going, so I say I'm going to the Parliament, and they ask me what you're going to do, so I said I'm going to sit there, they've got heat, they've got chills in the summer, and I'm not going to do politics here at all. I really don't know what you're expecting. Even Bishop Strossmayer in this House did not hold the mass but he gave political speeches and it was Croatian-oriented. As you negotiate with the unions, as you negotiate with your social partners. This morning, at 9:00, the number of unemployed was 373 thousand 823, this afternoon is 375 thousand 400, and probably that number is growing as I speak. We're talking about the average salary here for a minimum, minimum salary of 2984 kuna, something more, depending on whether you buy euro, sell euro, about 400 euros. At the same time, the consumer basket is in Vukovar for the four-member family is 7000 kuna, so almost a thousand euros. What are we talking about? We're telling a story in front of the local elections that we've raised a minimum wage for 21 kuna and some lipo. We can buy four kilos of bread and that's social democracy. And at the same time, the unions announce the street for 1st of May, so obviously neither to the unions nor to the citizens left for that pea in Maximir, but probably here in this cage in St. Mark's Square they will have but not a celebration of the international festival of work but above all big protests. And let's forget about the Narcis story, look in the mirror and tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33564	The reply is from Labour Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33565	I followed closely what you talked about and talked and recorded, you mentioned the minimum wage twice, and that's all. Everything else was a political speech. Therefore, minimal...... We're discussing the law, so we're discussing a minimum wage law, so I expect us to get either green light or red to say gentlemen don't do you any good, the law doesn't apply to you, we won't vote for it because we don't think it's a law that will help workers in the Republic of Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I expect at least in your replica there to be at least two sentences about this law and you say it's okay, the law, it's not right. You replicated me, Agent Vinkovic, so I was talking about the law, I wasn't talking about anything else. I was talking about the minimum wage law. Listen to the phonogram and you'll see that I wasn't talking about anything else but the minimum wage bill. You've replicated my speech, you've never mentioned the law in a single sentence, you've mentioned the minimum wage in a word. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33566	Now we're going to the club debate, but first I'm going to ask my colleague Vinkovic not to throw it out of the bench, to allow a debate here in this House. So I invite my colleague Zlatko Tušak to take a stand on behalf of his club Croatian Labour Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33567	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I hope that in the end, we will still be allowed to talk about how we will in this House clearly with the part that was prescribed not to violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament. And that is why I will begin this debate on the Minimum Salary Act not with the speech of our Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic but with the speech of US President Obama a month ago at the US Congress when he addressed his congressmen and put two important priorities ahead of them. The first priority was to reduce poverty and strengthen the middle class. He then said that the middle class must be strengthened, and the number of poor must be reduced. He said this government must work for most, not for a wealthy minority. He said it is unacceptable that citizens' incomes in the last 10 years have been reduced while corporate profits have increased to the highest possible level in history. And the second priority he put before congressmen is that the lowest hour should be increased by 20% from seven and a half dollars to nine dollars, and he explained how unacceptable it is that people who work full-time don't have enough money to feed their families. Why did I start with American President Obama's speech? Because unfortunately, in 15 months of this government, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, his ministers, we have not been able to hear these speeches so far. We hear only about the reduction of rights, only about the reduction of wages. The last is 3% wage cuts, new burdens on citizens and through new and higher taxes. In his performances, the prime minister speaks at least of social justice, protection of workers' rights or the fight against income inequality. If he says anything, don't keep his promise that he said then. For example, it is an amendment to the Labour Act or social dialogue with social partners, because we see in the end unions coming out with their membership on the streets. When we join the EU on 1 July this year we will be 28 members, and by poverty Croatia will be 25 members. Only Romania, Bulgaria and Lithuania will be behind us. And I wonder if the Croatian citizens deserve it? Just to stop such a bad situation, Croatian Labourists sent a proposal last July to amend the minimum wage law with the assessment that it is necessary to do so due to the fall of standards. The debate on the proposal was in late October 23rd last year, and the ruling majority then rejected our proposal with an explanation that they would refer their proposal to the debate. In our proposal, the minimum wage was to be 40% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, and for the next 5 years it was to increase 2% to 50% of the average salary. According to our proposal, the minimum wage was to be 3118 kuna and this was the proposal eight months ago. The reasons why this should have been done were the fall in standards, the increase in prices, the growth of VAT from 23% to 25%, the growth of energy such as gas 30%, electricity 20%, water, transport which increased the cost of life. Our proposal was not accepted as I said for the reason that the government would submit its proposal. And here's finally after the rejection, it's been five months, and we've got a bill that has, like the minister said 12 articles, and it's right in front of us. And we have a proposal from the government that is in line with the social partners and according to them, as the minimum wage is said to be 2984 kuna. If we compare our proposal and this government proposal, our proposal was for 134 kunas more. From this example, we can conclude why our proposal was rejected and what kind of relationship the Government has when we talk about the lowest price of work. If we had accepted that proposal eight months ago, we would have helped a significant number of workers whose kuna means saving in the home budget, save some of the workload, and most importantly, we would have saved both their health and their families because they probably eat unhealthyly and have insufficient food for a healthy diet. The minimum wage law applies from 1.7.2008 and the first amount was 2747 kuna, which was 39% on average. The share of minimum wages in the average salary is constantly reduced. When it increased from 2974 to 2018 kuna in 2009, the average salary was 36% of the share in the average salary. Today that share is 34.8% and less than 4.2 from the initial and minimum wage. Back in the few months, this relationship moved in July 36%, August 35%, September 36, October 35, November 34, and December 35%. With this proposal, it will be something more and will be 38%, from which we can still see that it is less than 1% of the initial minimum wage. And right now we have an inflation of 5.2% and a decline in average wages at 12 months for 185 kuna. What makes it clear that the minimum wage is below all criteria when we talk about the possibility of living with it normally. The minimum wage should be socially just to protect the lower threshold of dignity. Is that the amount of 2984 kuna? If we take the net to be somewhere on average 2350 kuna, then the hour of work is 13.50 kuna. The question of whether this amount of 100,000 workers or 300 thousand of their family members can normally live and feed on such high-priced food prices? Surely not, if they're not lucky and they have a different source of income. The concern is also the data on the decline in retail sales by 5.3%, which is why we can only conclude the situation in which citizens are brought in, whether the long-term effects of VAT increase by 2% yield results because these 5.2% when we say they will also be the result of less than that VAT increase. It is therefore important to ask whether we are reducing income inequality and preventing social injustice with such a proposed minimum wage. Croatian pensioners are safe and have warned of this long ago. An increase of 170 kuna will do some good because it may be the last straw of salvation, but it is the crumbs that will not ease the social misery of those who work for minimum wage, and it will not return even the dignity of work that has been seriously damaged with a constant wage reduction. 370,000 unemployed and 240 thousand who have blocked accounts. Knowing that a large number of citizens in our country live below the poverty threshold, the figure will not certainly be improved with these 170 kunas, knowing that the poverty threshold for one member amounts to 20 kuna while for the 4-member family he is 4240 kuna. According to EUROSTATA in Croatia, 32.7% or about a million and 400 citizens live in poverty, and 14.8% are extra poor. So, about 700 thousand citizens are practically in misery. Although the European Social Charter must require that the minimum wage share in the average salary should be 50% of this bill does not go in this direction because the lagging is still present these 5 years in the percentage of the average salary and minimum wage. And now a few sentences to the law itself. The law itself provides for a minimum salary for 2013 with a very complicated formula and elements which are questionable for the use of net wages with an average of 10% cut. We know that the salary can never be the same in Zagreb with 18% cut or somewhere where it is smaller or where it is not at all. This is the amount set out in Article 6 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The government lays down a regulation within 15 days and questions why the regulation if we use some of the statistics in the law, which are not changed from the census for as long as 10 years. But I guess the government is introducing a practice to regulate all regulations or its powers, so maybe we in the House won't even need it, because the government is going to regulate everything by regulations. I also wonder why such a complicated calculation of the minimum wage was needed, and it could simply be determined as a percentage model, an example of 40% of the average gross salary or some other percentage that can be monitored monthly, quarterly or yearly. For example, on the basis of the average salary for 2012, the minimum salary should be 3150 kuna and that would probably be more appropriate and socially fair, but the government is afraid that it would not give too much to workers or that it would not become richer with a kuna. Article 7(3) sets out that in 2014 and the coming years, the minimum wage will be increased and there is said to be a minimum wage share in the average and, with consultation with the social partners, the minister will propose to the government to adopt the regulation. I fear that so far this government has treated workers without clear criteria which would have had a binding percentage of the minimum wage alignment will not improve anything in protecting the dignity of workers and workers and with such a solution in a law where they are condemned to the mercy of the Government whether or not they will regulate the regulation because they have not had the opportunity to feel that they have been given anything by this Government. Article 8 states that a lower minimum wage of 5% can be agreed in the collective contract. By this we will have a minimum wage which is not a good solution, and employers will benefit greatly. In the existing law we had a similar provision, but it was only covered by the wood and textile industry and that part of the reduction was valid for a period of 4 years, and now we have virtually installed in the law that it can happen in all activities. And knowing that these 5% reductions, and the ratio to minimum wage in a lot of collective agreements, is the basis for calculating wages as an initial part of the 1,00 coefficient, or as already regulated by the collective agreement that employers will, in that case, clearly insist on being less minimum wage and have cheaper labour. But this part, as the minister said, is in line with the social partners, and then I leave it to them to go through collective agreements, but I'm afraid employers will be very much blackmailing trade unions and these workers themselves, in order to cut that minimum wage. In addition to increasing the amount of 170 kuna, other solutions in this law are bad, and Croatian laborers feel that it is not a good solution and it will go to harm workers in determining the new minimum wage after 2013 and we will see inside that we have been right as well as many cases we have warned of, even in those who call us populists, in this case from the first quote when I said that it performs in their speeches by President Obama, so let them also call him a populist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33568	There are exactly 7 replicas on this exhibit. First respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33569	Dear fellow Tušak, you have begun to deceive the Croatian people because of this you quote Mr Obama. Mr Obama is an ordinary populist, all he said is pure populism, because Mr Obama misspoken at the American Congress, he should look up to Croatian Prime Minister Milanovic who makes up epigrams, quotes other people's mind words, and yet I wonder why Obama doesn't, because those words all sound hollow. But you see the devil's speech by Mr. Obama in Congress echoed in a capitalist world whose governments do not despise such as, today we have witnessed, two ministers have given us bouquets, politics, but politics are trying to achieve the goals that Mr. Obama spoke of. So in this bastion of capitalism, the president of one of the most capitalist states is talking about a salary that must not be less than, to ensure the decent lives of workers who work for that salary. We have a crime when we start talking about the pay having to cover those minimum costs, that's when we're the populists. Now in that basket of ours, Mr. Obama and you've made a mistake quoting him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33570	The replica corresponds to the esteemed colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33571	Well, my colleague Vuksic, I think I didn't deceive anyone and I didn't make a mistake, but I think that some of them who run this country are wrong, is as long as we understand what America is doing today, and we should have already prepared it in our legislation, in our decisions it's going to be a very long time, they're going to get out of the crisis, they realize that we need to boost the middle layer of citizens, that spending will stimulate and start the industry, and that this part is the beginning of getting out of certain crisis situations. We think that people should be forced to simply cannot survive, that they can't pay their bills, that they can't buy, and then clearly for what little money is missing, then we raise the VAT, we raise the prices of something to cover what we're missing, and we transfer that part to citizens' burdens, and we no longer have the middle layer of citizens in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33572	The second line is given to a respected colleague, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33573	Thank you. My dear colleague, first of all, when we join the EU whether we will be 25 or 24 is less important, we will certainly be at the very beginning at the risk of poverty. By some indications, I think that Lithuania is not, but Romania, Bulgaria, Greece and Spain, but well, on the side now. However, we are not discussing today a law which should therefore regulate minimum wage, the minimum wage institute, and you said at the beginning of the reasoning of this text, is actually a social protective instrument. But what kind of policy that increases this institute, this social protection instrument for a symbolic amount, while at the same time producing poverty, produces poverty? Therefore, the risk of poverty in Croatia is the highest in unemployed people, and according to the State Statistics Institute, it is over 42%. And we produce, this government produces an increasing number of unemployed, and then increases the minimum wage for a symbolic amount that even those who are employed are not enough to survive. 4242 kunas for a four-member family with two adults and two children is a minimum, a level where poverty differs from poverty. And you prescribe that minimum wage is at a level of 2977 kuna. So explain how a four-member family will then survive with that minimum wage, is often in a four-member family not working two, and happy are those where one works and who will get less than 3,000 kuna wages and it is clear that the risk of poverty will increase. And no matter how hard we try, we must also talk about what is related to this law, which is poverty as an objective indicator of today's policy, the economic policy of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33574	The replica corresponds to the esteemed colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33575	Thank you. That when we talk, I can't answer any questions. Comrade Buric, I hope that these questions will be answered by the minister or by those in charge of the part. I fully agree with you with 2980 kuna that you cannot live and cannot survive especially when we talk about gross wages, and the net salary depends on the tax and depends on, it is smaller and it amounts to somewhere from 2300 to 200,000 and 350 kuna which is much less or not to say that captain of 13.5 kuna per hour of work. But what's worst of what you've pointed out, I haven't said it in my speech, but it's a question of the formula for calculating this minimum wage. Where this minimum wage formula was calculated, then the cost of an increase in prices of 4.2 was also taken into account. Today we already have this information 5.2 means that already this formula is not an element of calculation when we speak in a way to protect citizens and in a way to ensure that the lower part of the protection of our people's minimum standards of survival for that part of fair certain work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33576	The next line is respected counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33577	Here's fellow Tušek you in the first part here's your debate to the President's speech, U.S. President Obama, here's how I look at his announcements and discussions and he's mostly focused is actually a middle-class issue. If we remember, we'll think about the Republic of Croatia, and we'll see that the middle class issue is still from some public discourse at the end of the '90s. So the middle class in the Republic of Croatia as a concept is slowly shutting down by the end of the '90s. We don't have a middle class issue at all right now. So we have a focus both in public speech and in some kind of political action, and through this work we have either poor or rich. We don't have middle class anymore. No more instruments, no more medium-class measures, because that middle-class has actually disappeared for the past ten, fifteen years. And where would that middle class be, in which pay grade? I don't think anyone dares talk about it anymore. But there's that, too. It says the system of measures, and then we're entertained by the question of minimum wages that are actually the lowest points of the bottom of the problem we come up with. And when it comes to systematic... The kind of society I think this society is about, let's say, the way the Croatian Government is set up today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have today, Minister of Labour and Pension Work. Separated from that work there is the Ministry of Economy. So work and economy are no longer one thing, is, in particular, there is work as a category of something. In particular, there is an economy, and in particular there is little entrepreneurship and crafts that are also not part of work or economy. And I think in that whole column here's our unfortunate debate about whether it's 2800 or 3000 or approximately on that trail.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33578	We are now going to the next replica and respected colleague Drazen Djurovic. Excuse me, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33579	Dear fellow Tušak, you have begun your debate on behalf of the Labour Club with Obama, then your colleague from the club Luksic went to Obama and finished your debate with Obama, who has agreed that I am pleased and delighted with Obama's speech, here's how he announced that he would protect the poor and not more rich. I was just as thrilled to hear it and, in fact, I would be happy if America did, if they as the strongest economy and the strongest state in the world, the most powerful country in the world finally began to care more about the poor and less about the rich. Then it'd be better all over the world. I agree with that, too. What I disagree with. You said that, if you hadn't heard our Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic say so. You may not have heard that, but Zoran Milanovic spoke not of it but also implemented the laws here in the Parliament, his government and this assembly majority. Just you, let me say mine and you talk later. So I'm going to give you two examples, I'm not speaking in my mind. That it went right in favor of those who are poorer, who are weaker in property on the sharper of wealth. The first example is the Income Act. By changing taxes increased taxes for large salaries, reduced by less, although one who has three thousand kunas now has a higher salary due to a change in income tax. He who has a large salary pays a higher tax. You and I have 400 kunas less pay for it. So it went to the harshly poor, and to the benefit of those who have higher wages. Or another even better example. We finally made this Government of Zoran Milanovic most of us passed changes to the profit tax law where we all profit, the daily profit that is paid, which owners put in their pocket taxed with 12%, a rate of 12%, which so far has not been taxed throughout HDZ governments and their coalition partners. Why? It was protected by the one who had the money, the one who was rich, the one who had the capital, the one who taxed the worker. We have taxed it, not on another example, to show that we care about who works.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33580	Comrade Jelusic, time, stick to the time please. Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33581	Thank you. I will not comment on this part that you spoke about Obama and Prime Minister Milanovic because that is why I have made it clear that I am still standing by that part. But I'm going to look back on your replica when I'm talking about the two laws that you've been dating in some way to make things easier for the citizens. That it may have been those two laws that came to the hands of the citizens, but these other laws, the tax on extra value that was increased, whether it went to the hands of the citizens, so the purchasing power as I said now fell by 5.3% lower. Is that the result? Did the increase in the enormous that went on when it came to gas, electricity and other costs, did that go in favour of the citizens? You can only talk about those good things, we will support you for all the good things you do but clearly we will also criticize you for all the bad things that have been done and that are at the expense of the citizens. We believe that this is ultimately our obligation to both workers and citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33582	The next line is respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33583	Dear colleague, fortunately, if you hadn't quoted perhaps Mao Tse Tung, Josip Broz Tito,..., Jung or I don't know who and here would probably have opened a slightly bigger debate because apparently the one who quotes and I would have said at one point and the great statesmen but on the other hand history has shown that certain were not such great statesmen. But I would ask you if you were already talking there after that pay phone if you were a populist then don't deceive the people because first of all the minimum wage as you said it wasn't 2984 kuna, it's gross, but it's 2984.70 kuna and it's one big scam from the Croatian public. For these 0.78 kunas or 78 limes, perhaps you can get half a kilo of old bread in a bakery and thus, as a worker who will have a minimum wage of 2984.78 kuna, you may have a breakfast with old bread. So please, if you want to be a populist, then be a fact-finding populist.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33584	And this replica is answered by the esteemed representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33585	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic, I completely agree with you for correcting me. I have rounded up this figure, but these 78 limes certainly mean a lot, if it really means someone could take a piece of bread, and we're not going to do it that way. It's something I wanted to say from your speech, which is what my colleague Djurovic mentioned, and that simply disappears from the middle layer in Croatia and there is no middle layer of citizens. No state can have prosperity if it doesn't have that middle layer. Having extra poor citizens and on the other hand having fewer extra-rich citizens without a medium layer has no perspective, that's how this country is. And that's why I was quoting, and that's why I was saying when we get into the EU and this part of the data when I say it, they're right, we're going to be at the poverty line at 25th place. That's the data I checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33586	The 6th Replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You see, fellow Tušak, you come up a VAT rate by 2% points or 8.7%, then in the 7 months you raise the price of electricity and the price of gas for the average Croatian family is about 500 kuna, then one minister remembers and says that Croatian citizens go down to minus on the current account because it is their whim, and not our need, and says that it will cut them off, and then cancel their zero VAT rate and a series of other exhibitions with some kind of announcements, some kind of tax totally destroys the real estate market one economic branch that was very well paid and then comes up with a proposal for a minimum wage bill and says that the minimum wage will increase by 170 kuna, but not by economic criteria, but by some international criteria. Well, you see, those who have brought those international criteria, they've really thought about how to do with all these measures that I've told you about in this first part of the protection of this one that's going to get that minimum wage tomorrow. Well, that's what's wrong with this government. And now we're the bad politicians, and if we were doing political speeches, we'd be talking about a minimum salary of four thousand kunas, but no one here can think of that. But you see Mr. Minister laughing, he finds everything funny because he thinks it's a scalpel and it'll cut off etc. But that's not exactly how it works. Therefore, these poor people who, and it would be good if the law stated which economic branches and how many people in Croatia receive wages below 3 thousand kuna. This should have been nicely listed inside then everyone in this assembly would have become aware of the problem if Mr. Minister somewhere around 450 thousand Croats and Croats who receive salaries were not in tax scissors, which means that their salary is somewhere below 3.5 thousand kuna and with one or two abstention family members do not belong to tax scissors. So, don't be insecure, don't give those political speeches because if you said maybe the minimum salary is 2.5 thousand kuna, then you'd be a serious politician but you'd resent the unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33588	The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33589	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Shuker, I don't know if I'm serious or unserious, I'm seriously saying that I think that this is a very serious situation, especially the part where you said that a lot of citizens went down to minus and that somewhere over 240 thousand citizens have blocked accounts. It's too serious a situation, we can joke as much as we want, we can represent ourselves if we're not serious, we can speak and we can speak politically, we can talk however we want, but we're responsible for these citizens here. At least I feel that responsibility, and I believe that here in this House I have come to protect the interests of these people primarily that they are not in such a situation that I can live normally and I will fight here in the Parliament for it whether someone or not liked it, thought it was someone who was speaking my political language or my own, I don't know what he's talking about, but it's my job that I think I'm going to do here in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33590	And the last seventh replica, colleague Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tušak, you said at one point I suppose ironic, but that's what you said, the government is afraid to give too much to the workers. He's not afraid of the government, the government doesn't, government officials don't have these salaries of what we're talking about right now, they have some different salaries. The government generally takes, the government takes through taxes, the government takes through taxes, the government takes in principle, and the government adopts laws that correspond to those who run the government, and that's who they have. Remember the start of this House's mandate, one of the first laws was to abolish or lower the contribution to health insurance. This will in no way affect the level of health care, and a bunch of jobs will be opened. I promised that with that megaphone here in front of the church outside I'd thank you for every job that opens because of that reduction in contributions. It wasn't either of them that opened up, of course, but some of the others did. So the government doesn't give, the government takes and works in favor of those who have and is called what it's called, why it's called no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33592	We will now hear the answer to this replica and the esteemed Golden of Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33593	Thank you. Well, my colleague Vuljanic is, the truth is, I said it a little ironically that the government is afraid because the government is not afraid. If the government were afraid she wouldn't do it, she would act differently and listen to what the citizens think and what the citizens are in, but I'm afraid the government has moved away from the citizens and is less and less thinking about how it is to the citizens. And the truth is, what you said, the government takes very little or almost nothing to give, and the truth is, we've had a lot of nice words here that we've heard about investment, the tsunami of investment, we've had speeches about it reduce 2% for health care, it's going to open up new jobs, and we have a situation like our colleague Vinkovic used to say here, from hour to hour, the number of unemployed in the employment office is increasing. So everything the government has been saying, everything that's in the government's programme doesn't come true when it comes to citizens and the standard of citizens in our country, and clearly that if certain things don't change, and we have union announcements that citizens will take them to the streets, and they've already started to threaten because of this dissatisfaction that they want to make a mess in a particular country. I think that in every democratic state it is allowed to protest, to go out and to show dissatisfaction with what is causing citizens and workers in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33594	Now we're going to the discussion of another club, the HDSSB club. The honourable representative, Zoran Vinkovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33595	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I wish I had come for this payphone now and I wonder if I should give a political speech or if I should take a possible collection of Dobris Cesaric songs and read a few scriptures so that it might be the most beautiful or the fairy tales of the Grimm brothers so that we can all enjoy these fairy tales together because obviously we all live in fairy tales, especially in this Croatia. It was not better to say it at once during HDZ, but God is not now during this Kukuriku coalition that is obviously falling apart, which is left without tails and no wings, but in any case the citizens of Croatia are living worse and worse. The HDZ may now be as muddy and satisfied as you are doing badly, as you were while you were in the opposition, but in any case, the situation in Croatia is complex, catastrophic and critical for most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who barely bind the end. The HDSSB club will support this law for 163 kuna gross increases or 21 kuna net increases. This is from the last collection of gas on average 5 cc's of natural gas, and I believe that from those 5 cc's during that winter, indeed one four-member family will be able to heat 45 minutes if these 21 kunas help them netly, unless the gas distributor shuts down their electricity because believe them not in the Parliament, they are not in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, they are not in the administrations of public companies, they are not directors of public companies and they do not have that money. I don't know if this is a political speech, but this is the speech of a national representative who is still within himself, and this party to whom the HDSSB belongs has a large part and a large part of the social democracy programme that you obviously have forgotten, not as a minister, but as a whole this government has forgotten. I don't mean the left commitment by which you will belong in the European Parliament, but I mean what social democracy is essentially, which is a concern for the powerless, a concern for those who need help, and believe me, it's about 90% of the population of Croatia. And for that reason, only for that reason, maybe for four kilos of ultra black bread, so not white bread. I don't know if it's known to this neoliberal option, that it's 4 kg of black bread for that 21 kuna that can or is known to you who've been in power for 8 years and that you've led to those 300,000 unemployed. And here you see this Kukuriku coalition this year and a half, so only in the morning I said it was 373823 unemployed. Today it is likely that the number on that meter is 375408, or the number of unemployed in Croatia. Probably when I'm done talking to you, there'll be a couple hundred more. These are the effects of this government's work. I don't know if it's a political speech now, but anyway under quotes I'd say it's the speech of those who are on the street today. Those who don't have enough means to survive. 2984 kuna and 78 limes, I'm not a populist, although I like to bring Thomson to the Giakovia Unions. If that's what the right side might like. I like bringing Severina on the ropes, so that's what the left side likes. But at the end of the day, everyone who comes to the Giakovia bonds likes it. But the fact is that in Croatia we are nothing in these years, nor have we taken a step forward. Unfortunately, we've taken not two, but three steps back. I'm saying this because the left parties are familiar with certain thesis about the forward step, and the two backs, etc. that the real picture of Croatia is a reduction in production, a decline in gross national income, and even these, I would say the perspectives of Finance Minister and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic that we will have growth in the adoption of the budget of 1.8%, growth probably from that break-in of Sanader's HDZ. So here, after a month and a half, we get another perspective and predicting that it won't be 1.8%, that it'll be up to 0.7%. We must be aware of the fact that consumption fell 7.3%, that the conflict between Linic and Maras will not do any good because the finance minister has turned into a tax collector. So, the one who catches the citizens in the scissors. The Ministry of Finance does not serve for the development of Croatia. That the only plan not recorded in Plan 21 that has been met all along is a reduction in wages, coefficients, an increase in unemployment, no opening of any new jobs, no increase in production. Instead of the announced decentralisation, we got total centralised. I have a feeling sometimes, and that's why I started that replica that my wife and children asked me where I was going. I sometimes get the feeling that we live in North Korea how centralized we are and how much we can't, no matter how small a step, this one millimeter and we're going back miles or light years back. And that backward return refers to the standard of living, the standard of life of not being a representative. Many representatives in European countries have higher salaries, country presidents, government presidents but compared to the working worker. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that we are very similar to Greece, identical. That's what all the basic indicators show. Even tourism can't help us, and neither can the minister's shift, nor the appointment of a new one, regardless of whether the IDS agreed to it, agreed. Do you know that many in Croatia in a four-member family that many are happy if one person works, that it is often not a man. I don't want to enter the gender equality committee now, but it's pretty much true that it's always been a man who worked and even for that minimum wage. I do not want to offend anyone, therefore, that in most of these cases women work for minimum wage, that they cannot feed their four-member family, that there are almost 100,000 workers who work in Croatia and who are not on the poverty line, not on the border, not on the 25th place in the European Union that my colleagues talked about, but on the 100,000 families in which someone works, live in poverty. Do you know that these two minimum salaries aren't enough, even if they're lucky and two are working to feed that four-member family, to send the kids to school, to college. Do you know that every four pensioners today, regardless of what is written in Plan 21, and this plan no longer exists, let's be open, clear and loud, that plan does not exist, and no point in the plan has been achieved, the citizens have been deceived, that every 4 pensioners live in poverty. Every fourth! Not the ones who left the government and the Parliament to retire. If there's so much agreement between the social partners, Mr. Minister, and as a socialist, I can say in my heart and in my soul, what makes unions, Mr. Minister? And that's what I'm asking you SDP agents. Why are they announcing big protests on the International Labour Day? You want to go share a carnation and eat beans with them? You won't, you won't be safe because you didn't do anything. I don't get into how many union leaders get paid, it's a union membership thing. They don't live worse than members of the government either. But you certainly won't go because these indicators show that you can't go ahead of them, in front of that worker who doesn't have bread and milk regardless of the 0.5 or 0.3 aflatoxin, regardless. You can't go in front of those farmers. I remember one of these extremely large slogans – a good life for everyone, not just them. Do you remember that slogan by the representatives of the SDP? Not to mention the other members of the Kukuriku coalition. You obviously forgot about that good life to everyone. Now you live only well, and everyone else in Croatia lives badly. Me, too, obviously. As far as I'm concerned, this salary can go for humanitarian purposes. We have today, and that's a fact we can't avoid, you said we have 170 billion kunas in debt. We have somewhere between 60 billion and 70 billion euros. The fact is that HDZ probably didn't come back even to a nice head, but the fact is also in this year you haven't returned either, but rather that we've taken new loans, that we're still in charge, that we've increased VAT, that we've reduced the standard of citizens and that this pre-election story that we're going to support because that 21 kuna means 4 kg or weave because it's not a kilo, so maybe one day that fatty ultra black bread, if it's for that fat, was herbal or animal. And that's why we'll support it. And I will end up, so that my colleague Stazic will not again have contact with the Rules of Procedure, Plan 21 of this Kukuriku Coalition, this government headed by Zoran Milanovic, Mr. Minister, is a factory for the production of poverty. And I will not say English, but the people no longer trust you no matter how hard they try in the European Parliament and say in English that the people trust us. He doesn't believe it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33596	I thank you, too. We've got five replicas on this exhibit. First, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33597	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Vinkovic something the HDSSB club will support. They'll all support it because let's be honest, this is practically a coward's egg just like we're served now and the unions served by the system take it or leave it, and then if you don't take it, then the media you're depicted as the element that's against raising that minimum wage. Unfortunately, from this government we have not yet received any concrete proposal and it does not surprise me to say a colleague mentioned 10 months ago we came out with a proposal of the same law which was significantly different, or more favourable for workers and was rejected. It is not only rejected because it came from the opposition side but also simply because it is not known how to fill the state budget which is evidence and the number of these unemployed workers. So there's just no solution. And then before these local elections, let's go out with a law like this, as counterpart Hrg mentioned, it's not by any chance that before the local elections it comes out with the law of enlargement. It's that small, but you're all in a situation that you can't be against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33598	The replica matches Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33599	Look, dear fellow, before any kind of election, unserious people make promises like that, and they even promise a trip to Mars, a trip to the moon, probably in one direction, closed pools, etc. But back to this one, these 163 kunas or 21 kuna net, 163 kuna gross. The only reason we're going to support it is because it's the 4th century of that ultra black bread, and many nutritionists say it's the healthiest bread. What do we need with Croats and white and white, this is the healthiest bread. The government is pathetic, here's my colleague's help, obviously knows what he's doing. And now as we speak here, so it's been almost a year and a half, citizens expected a change. In a year and a half if you can't do a job, you say thank you, dear citizens, I'm not for it, and goodbye and there's no story. What's three more years to wait? These, I'd say self-satisfaction Fridays when most in the Parliament passed all the laws. Well, I'd like to live better than that law on Monday, but you don't live. Croatians and Croats and citizens of Croatia live worse and worse. And we will not be helped by July 1st, or by the Ljubljanska Banka, or by a memorandum we do not discuss in the Parliament, nor will we immediately become a wealthy power on July 2nd. And what does Obama say? So let him talk, I don't really care, I'm more interested in what Milanovic says.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33600	Second replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33601	Thank you. Dear counterpart Vinkovic has been mentioned several times, so here is your debate, as well as those of the predecessors, of the fact that today's difficult situation is the huge number of Croatian citizens, especially when they are unemployed. But here I will return to this law, on page 4, it is written: "Respecting the fact that according to the available data, the number of workers who receive minimum wage in Croatia is on the rise, and that around 7% of total employees, i.e. slightly less than 100,000 workers, receive a minimum wage, is proposed a more quality way of determining the minimum wage level in order to allow for more effective achievement of the economic and social interests of workers. Proposer of this law, here is Mr. Minister of Labour and Pension System, if the only measure that will enable you to achieve the economic and social interests of workers in the Republic of Croatia more effectively is to increase the amount of minimum wage, then it is not only sad but also devastating for Croatian employment. This is the necessary thing to do, but at the same time, to hyperproduce those who are most at risk of poverty, which are unemployed, which is what this government does. These 15 months have wasted time for Croatian citizens, and you know the saying: "That lost time has never been found again.". And you rather than work to create such conditions that the economic and social interests of Croatian workers are truly more effective. You are going out with such a proposal, only with this measure to increase and it is good to increase, but it is not a rate of 5.2% increase as inflation said, Croatia's costs have increased by more than 30% and not by 5.2%. Just look at the electricity, the gas, the heating, the water and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33602	The replica corresponds to the respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33603	You see, dear fellow Buric, you are right, and indeed, since we are, above all, the people's representatives, so the representatives of the citizens who elected us. Well, it should be members of the government, and it's good to always show the data. I said it was 4 kilograms of that ultra black bread, it's at these latest prices 15 eggs of that middle class, in which if a man has two children it's one breakfast, it's two liters of oil, a little less than two liters of oil. That's what we have to support just for that very reason, these simple facts, but we can't declare this law a revolution, or in various weeks, go to a variety of shows of political, look at the cases of political emissions, these are not the programs you choose we broadcast, but the minister goes there as minister, the prime minister goes as Prime Minister. And since this law in Croatia, no worker will live much better, as a percentage of the minister will live 0, so I don't know what that is, they haven't changed, they're nanoprompted, so they'll live better than this raise minimum wage. I hope you know the kind, the micro, the nano, the dot, the femto, the ato, so figure out which is the minus, the potential. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33604	All right, now I'd like to ask you to stay uninvited and not throw away a representative or a minister. Let's go to the next line, dear Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33605	My colleague Vinkovic, you are not right that the conflict between Linic and Maras did not bring anything. We just got to the bench so the government says the VAT bill won't go into an emergency procedure but goes into two readings. Now you can think of colleagues and colleagues when a government law that has not passed a public debate, which takes 40 billion kunas from Croatian citizens and Croatian economies annually. And then you say nothing happened. But look at your colleague Vinkovic, there wouldn't be any problem with the VAT if it wasn't for some kind of delusion. Has anyone said that in Croatia, indifference by 4 billion has been reduced, but someone has just wiped out a few dozen companies and wiped out their 4 billion debt. So now, from that basis, everyone in Croatia pays a 15, 20-day deadline and then it doesn't matter when... VAT obligations. the same one of the great delusions as these 170 kunas after all these great increases. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the same story as when you're convinced that real estate taxes won't increase anything, it'll remain the same as communal compensation, and then at the second meeting when you talk to the owners, says on behalf of what we get from real estate taxes we'll be in a position to reduce health contributions by two percentage points. It's just a matter of seriousness. A colleague and colleague of the law on value added tax when introduced was introduced for the first time, so for three years, he was preparing to leave, so again, a colleague made a mistake, so he spent a lot of money and went where it went. And we are now introducing a value added tax that will greatly affect what is going to happen to Croatian entrepreneurs. Look here, Croatian citizens will be able to buy some things in EU countries and there they will pay their VAT, not our VAT, but they push us through the emergency procedure and then you say that the conflict has brought nothing and they have kindly given us to discuss it in two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33606	The replica matches Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33607	Here you are right, since I spoke on behalf of the club, so I failed to see what my colleague was wearing since these changes, and indeed there are sometimes good conflicts within the ruling coalition. The worst thing is when it happens inside that same party. That's what I know from experience. But even in those conflicts, he should be upright not on his knees. On the other hand, I remember that when you were Minister of Finance, I didn't say it was a hack, a paradise, a harrassor, but I also said in a debate that it wasn't a good move, that it wasn't a good decision, that it wouldn't affect the development of the economy, the increase of jobs, etc. So here I am taking this opportunity to come along with Prime Minister Milanovic and visit Germany with certain ministers. So you finally get close, the thing is and the fact is, this people see that SDP equals HDZ, now you've taken over the social democratic side. You stand for all the good in Croatia. They're yelling at the people. So here you go together to Germany, so you see what Germany's doing, that it's running the economy down the VAT. And there's that joke when a plane crashes with the entire government and that opposition and saves that country from the general crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33608	Now we'll hear the replica and the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33609	Dear colleague Vinkovic, your speech made me come forward because you said that plan 21 of the Kukurik coalition does not exist and I must in some way oppose your opinion because I remembered some of the pearls in that plan. It just seems to me that this plan wasn't exactly written enough for those who were supposed to decide in the election to understand what was offered to them, so I remembered in a plus-three salary and not minus to pay you, it seems to me that it was one of the slogans. And relatively recently, the government has appointed a group of its officials to raise their salaries to about 20 thousand kuna. Remember the director, health care, pension insurance, their deputies, assistants, so I don't count on it anymore. After the salary of 20 thousand kunas we're talking about a minimum of 170 today, just remember the slogan in plus three wages everything will be clear to you. It was just the end that didn't apply to everyone in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33610	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Vinkovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33611	I always have a reply to the replica. This plan 21 of your fellow Mlakar remember and you are who those guarantee cards are to you remember? You must remember. That's the same thing for you. And the old Latins would say mores or Sapienti watch. Smart enough. It's similar, there's no guarantee cards, no plan 21, no more Kukuriku coalition, no more nothing. Our only way out, our only hope, and we're going to see how we're going to go, I'm not Eurosceptic that 1st of July, so we'll probably be in that EU because it's the only way out of this situation. There is no other way out, that ship when it sinks and the captain sinks along with it, those rats find a way out, they find a hundred exits. Unfortunately, we only have one, unfortunately, and we will be witnesses of that one single exit. God forbid we pass as Hungarians, Romanians and Bulgarians, not God, because we are not going there because they love us but because we still have something. And if she's leading us and such a government with guaranteed cards and plans like this, you've pissed at us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33612	Thank you. Next replica Drazen Djurovic. Here's my colleague Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33613	Thank you. Well, here's a fellow MP, I was offered or inspired by a replica of something I disagree with in your speech, which is that you are not interested in what Barack Obama is saying, but Zoran Milanovic. I think it would be good for all of us to sometimes listen more to Barack Obama than Zoran Milanovic might actually learn something from public speech and hear something worth hearing. What I would like to mention is what you didn't mention in the speech, but I think it was worth mentioning it was not only a question of minimum wages, but when it comes to average wages, there is a huge difference towards regions at the level of the average net pay. For example, regions in Slavonia have an average of 20 to 30% lower average net salary than the average of the Republic of Croatia. So in the Republic of Croatia, the average net salary paid is 5600 kuna, and in Virovitica-Podravska or Požeško-Slavonska, the average is 20 to 25% and 30% lower than the average in the Republic of Croatia, and the average net wages are about 3.5 thousand kuna and are approaching these minimum guaranteed salaries. And I think that this problem, so it's not about some social censorship anymore, but about the fact that all the wages are approaching these practically the lowest paid ones, and that small number of people who are even happy that they can still work. and when we talk about the work on jobs in general, I usually deeply believe that simply Minister Mrsic and this portfolio are as far away as it is at all not a place because it is a single resort that cannot create a single workplace and separate the workers' resources from the resources of the economy that creates any substrate and jobs. I can't understand exactly what kind of concept this ministry is designed to be and what it's for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33614	Thank you. Reply to the replica of colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33615	Dear counterpart Djurovic, so I did not say in a literal sense that I do not care what Barack Obama is saying but at this point I am not an American citizen and that I do not live in the United States that I do not enjoy this standard as a Croatian citizen, I am more interested in what Milanovic is saying. I'm more interested in who the Minister of Tourism will be. Will there be more new ministers in the government like this Croatian government? Is this obviously the government that changed ministers in a year? This did not happen in China during the cultural revolution or even during the former Yugoslavia at the time of the informationbiro when individuals yelled lively at Stalin in the morning or cried lively Stalin in the evening and ended up in prison in the morning, etc. So I'm more interested in how to live in Croatia right now, how this government is doing something that the economics theorists don't usually quote the practitioner quotes by Prime Minister Milanovic or a great philosopher among other things, etc. So here I am going to finally quote Schopenhower Arthur who said that "Every new morning is a new birth, every day a new life, and every new night a new dying," and I think it's extremely hard for us if we know each other in the morning then I'm going to put on these three dots and I'm going to be cultured and I'm not going to end up thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33616	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Đuro Popiac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33617	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. It's good to see you in the Parliament again. Here is the Minimum Payment Act, so in the Republic of Croatia the minimum wage was regulated by the Minimum Payment Act and collective minimum wage contracts. The provisions of the existing law clearly simply respecting economic criteria define the mechanisms of correction of the amount of minimum wage allowed. This law established a minimum wage at 39% of the average salary at the time of adoption, which meant an increase in salary by 300 kuna immediately after compliance with GDP growth. It is also determined that the share of the minimum wage and the average gross salary is increased by the percentage of the real growth of the gross social product in the previous year. The law lays down that for the textile, woodworking, leather and footwear industries, reduction coefficients are introduced as labour intensive industries so as not to further worsen the situation in these industrial branches. What the law did not do did not provide for a way of acting in the event of negative growth, or a fall in GDP. However, in the years of the 2009 World Economic Crisis, 2010 the minimum wage of course did not change, although GDP fell by more than 5% at the beginning of the crisis. In 2011, with a zero-percent growth rate and two quarters of mild growth of 0.8 or 0.2% pointed to economic recovery trends and high prospects for the minimum wage problem to move from place to place. Unfortunately, though, we are all witnessing what happened after that. With a completely missed and devastating economic policy, tax terror, party personneling, lack of investment, asphyxiation of entrepreneurial activities, the economic recession is again deepening. The result is a decline in GDP for 2012 compared to 2011 by 2% and of course with a loss of credit rating. Since the establishment of the Ministry of Labour, the number of unemployed citizens of the Republic of Croatia has increased by 70,000 and the number of record 375000 has already been mentioned today. Although we are here today in the opening presentation of Mr. Minister, and otherwise we often like to hear what these are all achievements of this ministry, unfortunately the number of 375 000 unemployed at a record rate of 21% clearly shows what the results of the work and this ministry are, as well as the entire government. It is true, though, that this Ministry is only trying to mitigate the serious consequences of the wrong conduct of economic policy and the serious consequences of the government's incompetence. But this is also the Ministry responsible for creating a total anti-enterprise climate, which, unfortunately, leads to the complete collapse of the Croatian economy and the unsuspecting consequences of the lives of Croatian citizens. Here in this year, unfortunately, we do not stop reaching black numbers, and besides the already frightening number of unemployed, the return on consumption by 1 month of 5.4%, the 11th month in a row clearly indicates what the devastating effect of all that this government has done over the past year and a few days. I can't list everything here right now, but I'd like to mention only one measure of this ministry that has particularly affected young people with a college degree. Mr. Minister often boasts of a measure that has enabled the acquisition of work experience for 1600 kuna, i.e. the Employment Encouragement Act. It is hard to find in history a law or regulation that has so offended the knowledge, the efforts of young people, and often the great denials of parents to educate their children. Have you met Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, that in Croatia no one employs trainees anymore. Did you know that banks today, so the financial industry is taking young people under this program in principle take or leave. Do you know that engineers of electrical engineering, engineering, construction are offered today only jobs of 1600 kuna and most often during the year, after that time others come. No one has ever offended your diploma before, brought in as much imperceptibility and hopelessness as you have with this measure. That is why we are unfortunately also witnessing a new exodus of Croats, 15000 young educated people left Croatia last year. Do you know, Mr. Minister, what is the minimum wage today? 1600 kuna and this... low-accumulated activities for 1600 kuna are today forced to work economists, engineers, lawyers and other highly educated young people. When you passed this law, we warned you what would happen, but as in everything that this government does, it stubbornly pushes its own, regardless of the consequences. Unfortunately, the price is extremely high and it is difficult to repair this much damage. So it's also hard to understand what you wanted to do with this law. You have abolished the economic criteria and you are introducing an administrative decision to determine the amount of minimum wage, you will place an account on the economy, and in fact again to the workers because when you abolish the economic criteria you introduce a dictatorship to the Government, you are directly jeopardising not the amount of minimum wages but jobs. That's how you administratively determined that engineers, economists, lawyers would work for 1600 kunas, not as always in the private sector to be interns. And for this year, you've made a decision that wages will rise by 100 kuna or 170 gross. Why 100 kuna, why not 300 kuna. It doesn't matter to you. You'll find it hard to convince someone that it's the result of the criteria you've stated in the law. According to information, the social partners disagreed with this solution contrary to what you are saying. The website of a union says that you put this proposal on the table as a matter of principle this or nothing, and the employers wrote to the President of the Croatian Parliament as well. In a letter of the union among other things, I will quote a little: Since the unions yesterday clearly responded that this is the maximum that is possible at this time for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, given the economic and social situation in the country and... the positions and positions of trade unions and employers and that if it is not acceptable for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to remain at the present law and amount of EUR 2814 gross, the trade unions were taken or left, and the hostages and the situation were workers of the Minimal because the trade union would mean staying at the present amount, and the acceptance was nevertheless an increase of the amount of 170 kuna. In this situation, it is clear that the trade unions, although unsatisfactory and with arguments on their part, but faced with an alternative that means absolutely no increase in the minimum wage simply do not have the opportunity to refuse and thus bear the responsibility of not increasing the minimum wage that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would certainly transfer to them and would not increase the minimum wage. That's what the union says. It's social dialogue the way you spend it for a year and a half. Employers warn among other things, here is a brief quote: For the sake of everything mentioned and the bill we would like to inform you that such a law will directly endanger 50,000 jobs, endanger the existence of labour intensive wood industry, textiles and skins in the dominant rural areas of Croatia where these business entities are holders of employability and economic activity and ultimately further reduce our competitiveness. And while on the one hand we are all fighting for investment and new jobs, on the other hand we are directly shutting down and jeopardizing the existing ones. It's the consent of the social partners around this law that you're talking about. This, of course, is in a letter to the President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, it is incorrect to conclude that the social partners agree with this proposal. This is also fully expected, because what is written now in the law and as regards the criteria for determining the level of minimum wage, we ask ourselves whether it is even enforceable. You specify four points, the criteria on which you will also determine the parameters or determine the minimum salary for 2013. And then you say that the minimum wage basis will be determined as the sum of the monthly poverty threshold for one-member households and the coefficient of the number of members of the average household in the Republic of Croatia divided by the employment coefficient referred to in the first, submission of the third article, and adjusted for the average change in the consumer price index from 2012 to 2011. I wonder if by this formula, by these criteria you've just come to an increase in salary by a hundred kunas. I think we might do well to present all this and see if that's the case. But it doesn't matter anyway. How will the minimum salary for 2014 and any further be arranged? A government regulation, and based on what? By administrative decision. Does the Croatian government know that the minimum wage payment money must also be made on the market by selling and charging its goods and services? We estimate that this law also produces the method of trying and failing as this Government has done so far for law without assessing the impact but with a well-known practice of sending bills to workers and entrepreneurs. If the government wanted to bridge a time in which there was no increase in the gross social product and thus a minimum wage increase, it could temporarily release the minimum wage of income tax and cut tax and thus improve net income for workers. Now, that would be a quality solution if you weren't dragging your hand into someone else's pocket, but to do it a little bit in your own pocket. But it's already utopia. It is much easier to force your solutions, regardless of the discrepancies of those concerned by workers and entrepreneurs. However, it is obvious that Minister Mrsic does not expect this negative trend of economic collapse to be reversed for the government's mandate, so he does not want to leave economic criteria for calculating minimum wage. He also does not believe that Minister Linic could give up any kuna on the revenue side of the budget, so he must produce such alibis to show some quasi social sensitivity. The standard of people is difficult to fix without economic recovery, without reducing the pressure of the state on income, but unfortunately we see under the government's new moves that this will not happen for this term. In the end, it is of course a dilemma to accept or not, to support or not this law. Who wouldn't support the law, come on for whatever reason, even though we're keeping this proposal completely populist. However, for all the reasons that I have stated, I will not repeat them that we hold that the Croatian Democratic Community club cannot support either way or the approach itself to solving this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33618	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. The first one came forward by Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am very sorry that this is in the afternoon and that the people really can't, the Croatian people can't hear the real truth and arguments. I really don't think we can get a puck today and say it's spoken without arguments and politics. I'm just gonna use their fellow Parole Drinker Kukuriku coalition. Among other things, there was a big parole plan for a new day, and high unemployment will be replaced by high VAT, GDP. They replaced him and the high VAT, but unemployment broke all the records, and GDP is really high but at a minus. I remember your comments at the time, and I hope you remember what you were saying back then. They, the Kukuriku coalition, don't have to remember because their prime minister said they didn't promise anything, so they're not responsible for anything. If this debate were responsible, it would be in the morning if everyone interested in their jobs could really hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33620	Thank you. We have an answer. Comrade Drinker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33621	Well, unfortunately, here's an esteemed colleague I can only confirm. Namely, I myself have this problem or an accident that all the topics that are vitally important mostly happen in the afternoon or evening hours, not only when there is no transmission. And otherwise, it is already gone, I don't know what program it is spinning on, but there are no media representatives, so probably everything that the opposition wants to point to is illogical, destructive and everything that these laws bring to the Croatian economy, of course, at the end of the day and to all Croatian citizens, difficult and touching. But that's less important. It's much more important what the consequences are, and unfortunately they're catastrophic. We are aware of this every day, all of us except unfortunately the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33622	Thank you. Next is the replica Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33623	Thank you very much. Comrade Popioč, you well described this particular part of the social dialogue and how the minister carried it out. He said he had the consent of the social partners, but he did not say what you read by other partners, which are the employers most concerned by this measure because they would have to pay for this. Apparently, they don't have their consent. And what it looks like in the Republic of Slovenia. There is a minimum wage of 783 euros, there was also an attempt to align let's say those minimum salaries with the cost of living, but they are also in recession and in negative growth and they have delayed the adoption of one of these laws because they have realised that there will be other more difficult consequences, which is an increase in the number of unemployed. And what do we have today? Here's a nice description of you in the GDP decline and in this number of unemployed people. The facts speak for themselves. This government abolished collective contracts, introduced this 1600 kuna volunteering, reduced salaries, tightened the charges, increased energy prices and VAT, and then, of course, those expedient circumstances for the 15 thousand kuna homeless, and then the employer had to give the worker that famous confirmation that man could claim his debts. So now we hear we have a ticket to the woods if you want to read asparagus, please pay the ticket it costs so much and so much. And that famous grandmother closed for 600 kuna. It is a picture of Croatia today, and sometimes I look at all these sayings, so I may have found one suitable or inappropriate but I will say it – said that famous Grenf from Alan Ford better live 100 years as a richer than 7 days in misery. I think with that slogan this government might have won, and the people would certainly be happier because at least here you would believe that it is possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33624	Thank you. We have an answer. Comrade Drinker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33625	Yes, as far as social dialogue is concerned, I remember when this law was passed in 2008 then I negotiated by employers on behalf of the Croatian Employers' Association here with then ministers and on the other hand the trade unions I see standing there today and it seems to me that these negotiations lasted over a year. And in the end, of course, he's fully agreed and eventually there is, and there's documentation in the archives, there's the conclusion of GSV. Therefore, almost never have such laws been passed that the GSV did not give a positive view. I am not saying that this law was, of course, the best, we see that there were still problems with coordination due to GDP, but on the one hand, we remember every day almost or every other or third on various Croatian televisions, Minister Linic, with a very serious, very dramatic and threatening voice, saying that in Croatia no longer can be spent what is not earned. I would love to, of course, this law will, of course, be passed. And people are going to get, those who are going to get that 100 kuna, or how is that more calculated than a unit to a local self-government unit just the question of how many will eventually be left to get any pay? Because we see that exactly what the minister is persistently ignoring is that exactly the largest number of people who have come to the Department of Employment from the real sector and most of these endangered industries. And I repeat, why won't the state at least at some point give up one part of the income from those salaries, which is why the employer has to pay, and thus raise the level of net wages? But I repeat, he's holding his hand in someone else's pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33626	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33627	Thank you. My dear fellow Drinker, with a large majority of your debates, I fully agree. In particular, I think she was very argumentative because what really concerns me is four SDP deputies sitting and listening to this debate, the minister laughing, whatever we're talking about, telling me arguments, they said don't talk political talk, talk numbers, talk talk, make arguments, nobody here cares. It'll be full Friday, come off vacation and raise your hands. And we have, what do we have to repeat, how many times do we have to repeat the numbers? It has already been said how unemployed, 375 thousand, you have a registered unemployment rate of 21.9%, that you have poverty 21.1%, so only 4 countries in the EU are worse than we are. If it wasn't for the minimum wage problem and this last thing you said was the key and we keep warning about it, the problem is that there is an increasing number of those who won't be entitled to minimum wage but will be found at the Employment Office, and that's your intelligence and you, Mr. Labour Minister and the entire Government of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, you need to implement a policy that will employ people, not which will ensure minimum wage and on the other hand increase the number of those who will not be entitled to that minimum wage. And it's also true that what you said was a good intention, but it could be done with a reduction in contributions, so it would be better to increase the net salary, and then it's minimum salary and it stayed at the same level as it was, but we'd have an increased number of employees who would also get that minimum salary of 2814 kuna than we're going to increase it by a certain number of people now to 100, and a very large number of those who will now be covered by this minimum wage will eventually end up at the Employment Office because of the policy led by this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33628	Thank you. Replication response, fellow Drinker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33629	So I'm going to repeat what I said to my dear colleague and, of course, you and I on this side of the law, we're trying to well on purpose to point to the destruction and destruction of some time, and we see that this bill comes very quickly of these decisions. 70,000 new people who are at the Employment Office are the result of a fall in economic activity. For what? The growth of VAT, the impact on the economy, tax tyranny. No one in Croatia wants to do anything anymore, I mean entrepreneurs, improve, invest and open new entrepreneurial activities, no one wants to invest more in Croatia and people are watching as they will save a living head. So, of course, what was the other thing to expect than an infamous ending like this? It'll just take a while. There's a story going on, and there's a VAT bill being passed where they're going to kill what's left of the little craftsmen. We see that there is now a bit of a stir of water, so what they are doing, whether they are talking to each other, whether someone is assessing the effect and I was talking about it with these laws on the Croatian economy. Well, that's where it ends and moves everything. So, without a successful economy, without a successful entrepreneur, this is all an empty story. People stay out of business with one or another pay, that's the most tragic thing. But, unfortunately, here we are talking as you say in the wind, even a little bit of it will probably be heard by the Croatian public, but let us continue to be persistent and there will come a time when we will have the opportunity to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33630	Thank you. And the last replica, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Popiac, when the law was passed in 2008, actually negotiations on the law began in a far better economic time and there was a great deal of effort for trade unions and employers to first agree on how much this minimum wage should be. And when it was finally made and practically voted at GSV, a month or two behind that practically tanning unions, textiles and wood industry said listen to me if it's gonna pay off, we're just gonna shut down all those factories. And then it happened that practically in agreement with them that the salary was less than it was for others, but parallelly with this was brought to the economic recovery programme which in 2011 brought positive shifts regardless of what we were saying. However, the 2nd quarter of 2011, the 3rd quarter were positive, the 4th quarter was negative. And look at what's going on, as they are now doing with that law that was as sustainable as it was, they did the same thing with the economic recovery program. It's HDZ radio, it's nothing, we're going with ours, we're going with... Investment, let's go with this, let's go with that, and the result is a 2 percent downturn in economic activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they had adhered to that economic recovery programme, they would probably have continued positive trends, so if they finally saw that a bunch of those laws they had proposed during the HDZ government were simply political demagogy, is that they were so good to me, it's not clear why none of those laws were found as a proposal from the government for debates at the High House for the past 14 months if they were so good. So, one major indemnity that brought us to 70,000 more unemployed, has reduced the number of employees, who simply killed young Croats who had graduated from college every hope that they could work in Croatia, and they have become unfortunately, forgive me for the expression of the easy hunting of multinational companies that are already recruiting them at 3.4 years of college and leading them to go to work, because for 1600 kuna, and this is the minimum wage for educated Croats, because Minister Mrsic last time here said there would be no pay cuts, but the salaries went down 5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33632	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Drinker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33633	That it should be repeated over and over again that 2011 was the beginning of the Croatian economy recovery, and that is irrelevant, it cannot be hidden. All that was done in 2012 of course followed by these consequences, and in 2012, they already caused a 2% decline in 2011. These figures, of course, and the indicators entering this total, overall GDP score, unfortunately indicate that we will end badly in this year as well. The decline in consumption in the 1st month last year of 5.4% only indicates that in 2012, therefore even more so, that the negative trends in 2012 which was bad enough will be even worse. This is the result of all that we have pointed out in the adoption of these devastating and aggressive, as it has already started to appear in public, law, tax tyranny, it will ultimately deepen the crisis in this year and in the years to come. And we can't expect even more significant shifts in the labour market then. In addition to 1600 kuna, in addition to the situation in the economy, we can unfortunately only conclude that the exodus of young Croats will continue from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33634	Thank you, too. The Minister came forward for a word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33635	I didn't mean to answer, but you're suffering from retrograde amnesia, retrograde amnesia. If you remember, retrograde amnesia is to forget, I mean Popio's representative, if you remember who has taken action measures, active employment policy measures, and who is in these employment policy action measures, among other things, that you were the Minister of Labour, the Economy and everything else. The measures you've taken are a measure of 1600 kuna. So, the measure that was inside, so it's nothing new, so we went on with one measure that's good, we never said it was bad, and I'm sorry you're declaring it a bad measure. Something that Europe is doing at this point is going the same way, so the EU is doing what we are doing right now, so it's just there instead of 1600 kuna, 400 euros. The exact same model, exactly the same, so all that we do is Europe. I have returned from the Labour Ministers' meetings where this is one of the measures Europe is trying to save which is to be saved when we talk about youth unemployment. Speaking of interns, if you'd looked at the statistics then you'd have seen that in the last three years no one's hired interns. Because there is also a measure for trainees in the active employment policy that says 50% will be given by the employer, 50% will be given by the state. So you saw that measure wasn't used either, simply when it's squeezed, when there's no work then try to find other sources. 1600 kuna is a measure that has come into life and a measure that is growing in the real sector every day and is now 50%. So I'm sorry that you're declaring the measure you've been carrying out like I'm doing in the same way as something that's wrong. I'm sorry it's like that, but good. So when we talk about the number of unemployed then remember when you were the Minister of Labour there was one decision or part of the law that says when you send an unemployed person to education, even if it's learning English or learning some other languages, then you take him off the list of the unemployed because he's in some education process. He's still unemployed. And what did we say? We will send people to education for those interests we know about and we think we can hire them in Croatia and we do not need that measure to mask the number of unemployed in 2011. You did it, you sent over 15,000 people to an education that didn't benefit them or the state only to those who spent their education because they got some money and it was a masked figure. So the number that's now spinning is the public figure. You can see it every day. We didn't do what you did in your day, when you were hiding that number and at the end of the month there was always a panic about how much that number would be. When we talk about an increase so it will increase by 118 kuna net I would not want to turn into pounds of bread but much more than the esteemed representative Vinkovic said. And I can't help but answer the question of what the Ministry of Labour and Pensions needs, not to defend himself, but to honor counterpart Djurovic, he would say to 27 and now from 1.8. 28 labour ministers have regular meetings in Europe. According to this, the Ministry of Labour is one of the most important ministries. See what Arbeiten Ministerien does in Germany and I am sorry that such qualifications are spoken of because work, labour law, protection at work, unemployed and pensioners deserve to have their own ministry. Therefore, this is not our invention, and none of these labour ministers are at the same time the economy minister because it is incompatible. You can't ask the Ministry, ask the Minister of the Pope how he feels. On the one hand, there is a minister of the economy who must push investment and on the other hand was a minister of work where he must then negotiate some things with trade unions that may be contrary when we talk about the Minister of Labour and Minister of Economy being one and the same person. I didn't mean to answer that, but I'm obliged to correct what wasn't properly said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33636	Thank you, Minister. We've got three replicas on your exhibit, Djuro the Drinker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. First about the unemployment rate. The fact that you and I are going to fight who's rightly less interested, of course, in all the troops that came to the office, you're telling 15 thousand people that they were sent to school and deleted. When you came to the ministry, you inherited, say, 305,000, and count that 15 grand to that 305, which is 320. Make it 320. Today it's 375, which is with 375 thousand others. They came from a flat sector. That's the problem. And second of all, as far as the intern and the 1600 kuna are concerned, that's what I was telling you on purpose. If you're not talking and I believe you're even doing it. You talk to young people, you get lucky, they know me, I have kids that age, they end up, some are in the middle of college. They ask if we as engineers or something will have to work for 1600 kuna. Our friends who are finished say we can't go to the bank, we can't go to the IT company, we can't go to Telekom, we can't work anywhere as an intern. Everyone wants to hire us for 1600 kuna. Well, I'm not saying you didn't have a good intention. And you shut up and the measure that was an active measure or a employment policy for my time and before me was ultimately worth the state administration, not private firms. Well, you can't let banks hire economists, lawyers or anyone else for 1600 kuna. That's what's happening. Believe me, I'm telling you well-intentioned. I am aware of your well-intentioned and she was at the beginning. But the consequences aren't good. The consequences are difficult. In this context here I wanted to talk and I agree with you... easier, simpler that I didn't have the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33638	Thank you. The next replica of her colleague, Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said, and you're surprised that there hasn't been an employer who's called a trainee's tender lately, which will pay the intern 50% when he can get high professional training in the same way, means the same quality according to the training program. You also say earlier that there is a programme in Europe and that it is paid 400 euros. 400 euros is more than our minimum wage, so it would be convenient to talk a lot today about what minimum terms and minimum incomes are if these children, our young people who have finished and have high professional equipment work for the same money, means for 2800 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33640	And the last replica of Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33641	Dear Mr. Minister, we're back to it again, the bad moves of the old government, I don't know, retro amnesia, etc. Bad moves by previous governments do not justify the current government's bad moves, and that is the key. You mentioned what counterpart Djurovic said, no one says the Ministry of Labour and Pension System is important, but it is not important because of the ministry, but because of workers and the pensioners. And you have a situation, we're talking again and again, we keep saying how many people don't have the right to work because of this kind of policy, we're talking about the risk of poverty and pensioners, and that's your portfolio, bigger than the average risk of poverty in Croatia, there's 21.1 and for pensioners 22.2. You run a resort that should take care of both the pensioners and the workers, and we have a policy that, as if you run a policy for the unemployed and the pensioners who are supposed to be the poor, not the pensioners and live with dignity from their earned pensions. 15 thousand, with the number you're talking about, yes, but you're not telling the fact that it's also been said here that 15 thousand young people have moved out of Croatia at the time of your government in the last 15 months of this government. You work, this government works really as an immigration office, not as an office that should allow people to work here and stay in Croatia. And I'm not talking about that still Washington consensus of that already failed neoliberalism saying tax reform should be implemented, in a way that we want to encourage the economy to cut taxes, not to increase taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33642	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33643	So when we replicate, let's read the data. Fifteen thousand figures, it's a number that might be correct, maybe it's not. It has always moved out of Croatia and will always move out. Therefore, 15 thousand figures is a figure that is placed somewhere in public. I hope that we will have very fast figures on how many young people have been employed in EU countries, because 1.7 we are entering the EU system where we will have accurate data. So going to work in a foreign country isn't an exodus, but it's going to go belly after bread looking for a place to go, and it's going to happen. So, by joining the EU, we become part of Eures, a large employment service system where jobs will be sought. And so that's something that's going to wait for us, and people are going to come to us like they're going to go out and out. But I didn't answer for it. I answered for the pensioner. You forget that as soon as the government entered into office, it abolished the restriction on pension coordination and that pensions are coordinated according to the Swiss formula, and that the talks on the coordination and revision of the Swiss formula are on the move, with a view to making it more appropriate for pensioners and to monitor what has been neglected for years, which is to bring pensions in line with the cost of living. Since for two years, pensioners have lost almost 20% of their purchasing power. You forget that part about this government doing it. We can't fix all the wrong ones, but we're going to do what we can do and here's the pensions at 4 months will come an increase of 1.25% together with the backlogs in the 1st and 2nd months. So, what we said is done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33644	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Željko Shemper. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The minimum wage institute was supposed to be a protective instrument, he's a low-income worker who can barely settle his directings and loans. It was high time to at least increase the minimum wage a little because it hasn't changed in the past three years. The percentage of real GDP growth was one of the main elements of the increase in minimum wage, so in 2008 GDP growth of 2.4% calculated the minimum wage from June 2000 to late May 2010 amounting to 2814 kuna today. The global economic and financial crisis has affected the decline in GDP, and this impact has also been shifted to reducing paid gross salaries in the Republic of Croatia. So, of course, there was no increase in the minimum wage that should be the social protection instrument of maintaining the existential minimum wage of workers. The importance of the minimum wage institute... the European Parliament's Social Policy Committee also votes with a view to introducing minimum wage mechanisms in relation to the average salary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The increase in minimum wage is particularly problematic in some industrial branches such as textile, woodworking, leather footwear that would be difficult to withstand a certain level of minimum wage, making these branches subject to a reduced minimum wage adjustment coefficient. This law proposes harmonising that the minimum wage level for 2013 is prescribed on the basis of criteria that are in line with the social partners. This law lays down the official data of the State Statistics Office to be used to calculate minimum wage, which is the monthly poverty risk threshold for single-member households in 2011, the number of members of the average household in the Republic of Croatia, the ratio of the total population to the number of active population in the Republic of Croatia and the change in the average index of consumer prices of goods in 2012 compared to 2011. According to available data using written criteria and method of calculating the minimum wage of the derogation by the end of this year would be 2984.78 kuna. I would prefer to round that amount to 3000 so that we do not go to the EU so precisely to two decimals. We believe that this amount would be more appropriate for the social and political moment in the Republic of Croatia. As it is estimated that the minimum wage receives about 100,000 workers or 7% of total employees, this increase is in the social interest of workers with these lowest incomes. This increase is about the social interest of workers with these lowest incomes. This increase in minimum wage also means changing the base for paying contributions to compulsory insurance that at least slightly reduces the negative effects of the gray economy or less paying of workers under the table. As this is important at the time of work, it's even more important at the time of retirement. This is a small increase because we believe that there is a space to raise minimum wages and to lower the wage range. Regardless of the opinion of employers, we in Croatia have elitist access to salaries, so large spreads between minimum salaries and the highest salaries in the company, and of course the most severe management salaries, municipal shares, high severances that often do not include business results of the company. Thus, in our society there is no mature knowledge that wages need to be arranged so that workers and families can live with dignity from their work. Due to the minimum wage, but also to the few who are up to 85% of the average salary, an increasing number of workers ends up in the lowest pensions system. Today, in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia, we have 182 thousand people with the lowest pension or 16% with an average pension of 1358 kuna, where the pension according to the contributions paid is 967 kuna and the social allowance of 390 kuna. All these data sufficiently indicate the relationship between minimum salaries and minimum pensions. The Croatian party of pensioners has given amendments to this law, to Articles 4 and 7. which we hope will be accepted. The Croatian Retired Party Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33646	Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure, Dinko Buric. Here's your colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33647	Thank you. My dear colleague, I really expected that you, as representatives of HSU, would at least speak for the protection of the population that you would naturally be with all of us should represent here in the Croatian Parliament. But you defend the government's position, you just put out numbers, you read here well, though from this material okay, you defend the government's position, and it's normal for you to have a law that says that, here volunteers don't even belong to the category of those who have the right to minimum wage as it is said. Then what are they, they're not workers, what are they doing? And this measure came from this ministry. You were talking about the number of pensioners who are on average 1300 kuna, and 100 thousand workers, and you mentioned it at a minimum wage, but you didn't say that 73 400 workers according to indicators are on the edge of poverty, so below that will cover this minimum wage. You haven't said a word again about 60 grand of new unemployed, and here I'll say 60 grand, the figures we count go from 50 to 100 grand. And you were talking about how the decline in GDP is the result of the global crisis, but many countries have already begun to get out of this global crisis and we have a government that leads such a policy that there is no way that our GDP is growing when, by the formula of GDP, the sum of personal consumption, state spending, investment and differences between exports and imports has been simplified. We, even in this policy, have led to a fall in personal consumption, a decline in state consumption, no sign of investment except on paper, and now that you're walking around Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33648	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33649	Not to mention the difference between imports and exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33650	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Schamper, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33651	Well, my colleague Buric here is discussing minimum wage and I didn't talk about pension problems because here before me the minister mentioned what we were doing and what condition pensions were in. We know well that this minimum salary has not increased in 3 years. And now that you're trying to do something then there are always criticisms regardless of what it's not some significant amount that's going to help the team, but every kuna comes in handy. And recently, when pensions went up 1,30 and now 1.25 has pensioners who say and what about gas, electricity and others. Well, of course it can't make up for it, but any increase in those people who appreciate doing something for them, they welcome it. Why do we always look critically at everything that has positive sides? And we always find some kind of remark that something wasn't well done, and it's not looking at the essence of how much we're increasing that minimum wage. It will also work on pensions. We know how much the relationship between minimum salaries and the lowest pensions is is any relationship and how many more people enter the lowest pensions system. Therefore, every effort and every increase and pension and these minimum wage should be welcomed, not just a critical look and all criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33652	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33653	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing this minimum wage bill for two and three hours now. We didn't have to, and the government didn't have to propose it because we've had a minimum wage arranged so far. So we just wanted to change, so this law wants to change the way the minimum wage is arranged, and that's for more. So, we're not discussing this today if the government hadn't proposed this law, it would still be a minimum wage just a little less. Now it's bigger, of course, not enough, it's never big enough because the question of what would be a big enough salary for people to live decently, so we're not talking about optimal pay but we're talking about minimum pay, we even see here today in the debate that there were surprises about why such pay and why the minimum wage is as if the minimum pay of fiction is this government and these days. The minimum salary in these areas in the Republic of Croatia has been existing for decades and has always been determined as a protective salary so that workers cannot be paid below the minimum prescribed by the state. And now what we're doing today is re-prescribing that minimum wage that's a little bit higher than it's ever been before. Not much but one who is unfortunately forced to work for that minimum wage and that means something. A few times here is mentioned a number of these famous 170 kunas in gross which will be a higher minimum wage or somewhere 120 kunas in the net, not much, not a lot of us here who have salaries 15, 16, 17 thousand kunas but someone who has a small salary who has 2 thousand to him is almost 10% on the salary. Of course I'm not talking here in some groceries right now, but 120 kunas is one bread every day. It is not so small for those who care about it and unfortunately for those in Croatia are not few. A hundred thousand people receive minimum wage. So if this debate and the government's proposal and what we're discussing today contributes to at least a little improvement in their lives for 100,000 people, and their standard, I think it's worth this debate today. Of course we would like to, and that is the goal and the EU that we are entering in a few months, that the minimum wage is equal to 50%, so half the average salary in a given country. That's what we're supposed to be looking for. Unfortunately, neither the EU members have been able to achieve this, but we too need to strive to do so, and I hope that one day we will experience it. Of course, when the economy first looks better, the Croatian total economy when we have more or higher growth rates which unfortunately are not there. In Croatia, for the fifth year, we have not had economic growth, and that is a fact. Recently, we had a debate here about the mentioned Obama debate and how Obama advocates the poor, not the rich, but this law is also on the trail to help those who are a little poorer for minimum wage. But not only this I have said so I will repeat it, it may be worth it if some don't want to hear it, we have brought down a series of laws in this government in these years and a few days that are on this trail to help those who have less money who are poorer, so I'm going to repeat why some should hear that we don't have to talk about it again the other day. So we changed the way we changed the Income Act where we cut our taxes to those with lower wages, to those with higher incomes. It's the same measure. We introduced a dividend tax and paid off profits that were not even there until then, so we taxed those who had decent questions about profits that live on capital, not just to tax work. And it's on that trail. It's supposed to be repeated every day so that some people can hear, understand, so we don't open unnecessary debates. It's mentioned here and VAT is big but you've increased VAT by 2% points from 23% to 25%, so you're... let me say damage to both citizens and the economy. The economy is not, VAT for the economy for entrepreneurs neutral. So I guess we understand that, and we know we don't have to explain it. For citizens, VAT has been increased exactly by 2%, and all if we can say so, goods that had a 23% tax rate for that part of VAT increase. But what we have done in parallel is what we forget or do not want to say, that we are, therefore, those who have just mentioned the Tax Change Act on income to those who have less than average salary or less wages, so by changing that tax for that part and increasing wages and their paying power remains the same. But for those of us who have high wages, that's, of course, an increase because our VAT has increased by 2%, all our prices are up by 2%, and our salary is 400 kuna less. Well, it's okay for us who have more to pay, and those who don't have them, nothing's increased. It's just facts. They can be interpreted one way or another, but they need to be simply spoken of so that people can judge what is what is and what is not true. Of course, about one thing we all agree here, that it will be better for all of us and all of our citizens in Croatia when the economy starts when the positive growth rates start and that's where we agree. Just before I said Croatia has always had negative growth rates since 2008. The result is also a good part, but not only because of this and the situation in Europe and the world. It is true that in Europe and in the countries surrounding us there is no economic growth in these years, however, Europe entered a recession in 2008/2009. So she got out a little bit. Unfortunately, our then HDZ government didn't use it to give us positive momentum and we had growth rates. We had some change in two quarters in 2011, but this is not enough compared to how it happened in other countries in our environment and the European Union. Now again Europe has entered a new wave of recession, we are all probably reading, or if we are not reading, we can find that the European Union, that the European Union average this year is planned to have an economic downturn, not growth. And if the whole European Union has a downfall, I don't know if we need an economic miracle to be out of it. The countries surrounding us, Croatia, which are in the European Union, with which we have the largest economic exchange, Italy, Slovenia and Hungary will have an economic downturn greater than we have this year. That's how they plan it, and when they plan it, they'll definitely have it bigger than they're planning. Therefore, the situation is unfortunately not in a good environment, and it cannot unfortunately be as much as we would like it, as much as Croatia can be better than it is in the environment. We're not unfortunately isolated island so we can do it. But we did a number of other things, I said, we cut the deficit last year 2013/2014. For 5 billion kuna, so much less Croatia is in debt last year and this year compared to the HDZ government period, of course, because we consider this responsible behaviour, responsible state and citizens and towards the economy because we continue to be in debt, we do not need to. Besides, this year where we live 10.2 billion kunas from this budget, the Croatian budget will go on payment only interest, nothing for the principals. So, as long as you're in charge. We said it was responsible not to be in debt anymore because it endangers our not only present, but present, and especially the future. If we had been in debt last year and this year 5 billion more than the HDZ government has been in debt, we could have invested it, for example. In infrastructure facilities, in public works, etc., there would certainly be bigger economic growth, only there would be growth this year, but that would mean for the coming years if we owed another 5 billion more because it's a whole other story. Therefore, of course, it is necessary to accept with understanding all objections and criticisms but which are well-intentioned and factually justified. The ones that don't stand on it, but they have other goals and they're allowed here. Here it is allowed to speak politically and politically both in one way or another, but of course it is allowed also to those who do not speak to or think to make their point. Thus, this law is one of the laws that we try to help those in the most difficult situation. I can see that most of us here in the Parliament will at least support him after the debate, so if we can do that, it's not much, but to those to whom it applies, it's certainly going to be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33654	Thank you, too. We have seven replicas reported. The first one was Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33655	Dear colleague Jelusic, so first we need to clarify something. It is already out of debate on behalf of the club, and from our individual and replicas and debate clearly to conclude, we are not against this law to raise minimum wages, but in the context of the debate on this bill we cannot ignore all other influences and reasons why we are in such a situation as we are in today. And we're talking about it, no one in their right mind is against even these 170 kunas, so that minimum wage. But when you were talking about the measures that, here you are, and then you're walking into that trap yourself, and you're telling us that it's not a topic, you're talking about the measures that the government has taken to help the poor, the poor, and you didn't mention and deliberately shut down everything that it did on paper, and was it a measure to help the poor, and that's a fact, was the measure a drastic addition of electricity, gas, heating, was it a measure to help the poor? Well, it's a noose around the poor's neck. So while you're talking about the measures the government has taken to help them, tell them what measures it is to help them. And you mentioned here Europe, so let's keep quiet, here's the news, the European Parliament rejected the proposed budget of this multiannual financial framework in 2014-2020. How this will reflect, and we are on our way into the European Union and on the resources that we will be able to count on from the European Union. Surely it will not help our economy, but we have reason to be concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33656	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33657	Well, fellow Buric, I didn't say that, I don't know maybe the others did, I didn't say that here we shouldn't talk about other political topics and the situation in the economy. However, about that you should and I, you have me... I didn't say it, I think you should say it whenever you can because it's the main and most important problem that exists in this country and that's why I talked about it. But I would like not only in this assembly but also from the professional public if you heard a concrete proposal that should be done to make us feel better, and that the government and this assembly majority refuse. Bring us into position, please sweat that we don't accept it, but something that's justified. I'm talking again about VAT, again I have to say that, the VAT has been increased, but those who have lower incomes have not been negatively reflected because we have increased their income tax returns as well. To us, to me, to you, but well, to you and me 400 kuna doesn't mean much to me, but to anyone who has 3000 kuna, that means a lot to him. So, but we've reduced VAT in tourism just to give a swing to the economy from 25% to 10%, that's about 900 million, and estimates are maybe a billion kunas that we've left to the economy to develop. We left in health by reducing the tax contribution from 15 to 13% of the 2 billion kuna. That's all the money that's left to the economy to finally go. That's what the government does. And I hope he does. I hope they don't put that money in their pocket but they'll invest it in development.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33658	Thank you. Next replica Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33659	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague Jelusic, you were talking about the amount of minimum salary in the net that should be somewhere around 120 kuna depends on where there is a cut or no cut. It is clear that in the city of Zagreb it will be slightly smaller. And no one is against the increase. Respecting the situation that each kuna needs especially those who have the smallest income. But is that enough? We also need to talk about what mechanisms we have that will further edit that part of the relationship when it comes to minimum wage and the lowest labour price threshold. We in the current law have offered a solution, and that is the issue of the regulation. The government is laying down a regulation on a proposal from the minister consulting with the social partners. The minister can respect the thinking of the social partners, he doesn't have to. He'll propose to the government, the government will pass by regulation. So that's a certain part that's not good. We in law must have a mechanism based on which minimum wage is harmonised, which is further, which are parameters that influence the change in minimum wage. That's the kind of thing that needs to be discussed here in the Parliament. No, we've now established some starting price still depends on the government's regulation. And clearly, you mentioned the Obama question in one part. Yeah, our gross minimum salary per hour is $3, in America she's seven and a half dollars and they're betting there that she's growing 20% higher. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33660	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33661	Comrade Tušak, you have asked whether this is enough, whether this minimum wage is enough. Well, it's not, so no one's saying. And I said it wasn't enough. Of course it's not enough. It wouldn't be enough if it was 50% of the net salary. That would be about 2700 kuna. Well, that's not enough for a man to live decently, of course not. But it's an increase someone is and I'm glad you'll support it, because it's better 120 kunas than less. If we had kept an existing formula that had been so far, it would have been less. You say you need to install a mechanism that will ensure an increase. So if God gives us luck and we have economic growth and gross social product growth, then we'll go back to that formula if we have to, let God grow 5% of the gross social product every year, and then the minimum wage will grow. But this is simply a palitative measure until there is growth to protect those to whom it is most difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33662	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33663	Here's a colleague of Jelusic's, a few, it'd be better to correct the incorrect allegations. You said the taxes on high wages were increased. That's not true. The tax on the highest salary has been reduced by 5%. And you said VAT isn't being held on employers, which is not true. The VAT is held on both citizens and employers. I mean, at least we know about economic legality because there's less to buy. There's no one to sell to, no money to turn to. Therefore, there is no unconnection between it. You said we'd be better off when the economy started. You treat the economy like a natural phenomenon, like the sun and the snow, so now it's falling, now it's not falling. I guess one time it'll be the sun. Well, something needs to be done to get going, you're hoping. It would be much more convincing if you brought measures and presented these measures to us and told us how many times it was already said. Remember only the first Croatian Deputy Prime Minister who spoke will now be in the third month, then not in the third month, and will be at the sixth, so at the ninth, today. Well, it seems he's out of the game, and the economy remains on those low branches that he's been to before. You said the same thing that the opposition now says, but then HDZ told you we weren't a lonely island when you said what you weren't starting the economy. The HDZ has also claimed that we are being reflected in the global crisis. You said it wasn't true, your incompetence is so guilty. What do I think now? Everyone's been incompetent before, you're suddenly capable because the global crisis is to blame. You're a little contradictory. Everything has changed since the moment you came to power. Now those rules don't work anymore. Now the rules are different. And Barack Obama doesn't just stand for the poor, the middle layer you've heard from Barack Obama, the middle layer starts. Without the middle layer, no state has come out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33664	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33665	Well, I don't know why he would, but good. I'm going to respond to the replica not to repeat what I said a little while ago, no matter what those who are... Why I keep saying it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you didn't hear right. So I'm still standing by it. He who has a higher salary is therefore taken more from his salary by changing his income tax than he used to be. And I'm staying on it. The VAT I said, and I'm staying on that he's neutral for entrepreneurs, he's not a expense to them. Therefore, entrepreneurs did not increase the cost of kuna as the VAT increased. He's neutral for them. To reduce purchasing power, yes. But it has nothing to do with a specific company because it has to do with the overall economy. And finally, as far as this lonely island is concerned, we've been objecting to HDZ, and now we're doing the same thing. That's not true! I said it a little while ago, but you wouldn't listen. Of course, Croatia is not an isolated island, and when the crisis started in our environment, in Europe, in the world, that it had spilled over with us. But even then I was saying, and now I'm saying that it wasn't, that our fall was bigger than it was in Europe, and it wasn't only the result of what was transferred from Europe, it was the result of the subjective weakness of the then government. In the meantime, I said it a little while ago but you don't want to hear it came about the recovery of the economy in Europe, the rates of positive growth in Europe began. Not with us. Why? Because of the subjective weakness of our then government. Unfortunately, there is now a recession in Europe and Europe, and I will repeat for the fifth time today on the average of the growth decline this year by 0.2% of the country in an environment bigger than us. So, unfortunately, if it is so difficult in Europe, no matter what government has come and what it has done can improve the situation. Finally, the government of experts came to Italy, the great manager of Monty, who is truly a capable man, Berlusconi gave him authority to get Italy out of the crisis, Italy has a 2% drop.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33666	Thank you. Next line, Djuro Poppie. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33667	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So exactly 118 kuna or 170 gross is not much, but you could do more. That's why I'm repeating that you've freed the minimum wage she'd grow, so the net amount, wouldn't be 2300 kuna but 3100 and more, depending on the cut, etc. You could have done more, but you like to grab and push your hand into entrepreneurship. You're burdening extra businessmen. Cancel payments on minimum wage and minimum wage will be net, what the worker gets in his pocket and there will be over 3,000 kunas. Do it. Secondly, Mr. Vuksic mentioned the middle layer. You've additionally pushed your income tax into the abyss and that's one of the reasons why consumption falls. Nowhere in Europe pays 8 or 9000 kuna, i.e. 1000 or 1200 euros, is taxed 40%. That's why young and educated people are running away, and that's why you don't have investments in Croatia, investments with high added value. They won't even be with such a policy of taxing such mediocre wages, for Europe, of course, and very small. And secondly, it is unquestionable to grasp the growing and larger remnant of income or what remains for both the entrepreneurs and the population. The estimates are more than 60% but everything the state imposes through taxes, through energy prices as a monopoly in the rest of the income to the Croatian citizen. And Croatian people are getting poorer and less spending, resulting in even harder and greater crisis not now caused by the European and world as you say it than everything you've done in the past year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33668	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33669	A fellow drinker when, like you have now spoken, other colleagues from the opposition who have been and now the opposition can even understand them, but when you say it along with who you were, the Minister of Economy, then I really can't understand why you're saying it, but let me just answer some things. You said we were burdening the economy. This government has reduced and relieved the tax burden of the economy, not burdened it. Contribution... Wait a minute, we've cut our health contributions by two percentage points, we've left two billion to the economy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This year we leave a billion to the tourist economy in the name of VAT cuts. You said we put a profit tax, yes, but gentlemen dearly, we did not burden the economy but capitalists with the owners. Different the economy from the owners of capital. We've burdened them, you've protected them. We will not protect them and you, if this people are again, I hope not, give you power to protect those who have money again and we will again when we come to protect those who do not. And last thing you're saying is we get rid of this minimum wage, and it's gonna be bigger. First, why didn't you do it? ... No, no, no. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'm just saying that. That's why I said, when they say those who weren't in power have in some way a moral right
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33670	My colleagues and colleagues, please allow my colleague Jelusic to respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33671	I'm asking you to turn me on this time you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33672	I'll appreciate the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33673	So you're not, but we'd be very happy to do it and we could do it if we owed 5 billion more than you did in debt. We could free up all of these extra pay taxes, all of which have minimum salaries and salaries below 5 thousand kuna, so we could all go up so we can't take down the public pay administration now. We could all do that if we were in debt like you, but we're responsible we're not going to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33674	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy. ... My colleagues, please use the Rules of Procedure Institute. You should have called for a replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33675	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Jelusic, I listened carefully to your debate and for a moment I stopped and thought whether we were living in the same country, in the same Republic, whether you had another state or we lived here someone else. Unbelievable! And then you say what you did for that poor poor man. So they want to go out into the streets, they rebel. Well, they wouldn't object if they were better off. They don't understand that they're better off. So I'll give you some data, we left you a VAT on 23, you raised it to 25%, your gas price was 9.55 today is 10.89. On one tank of gasoline you lose everything you get on those salaries, on that income tax that you're talking about giving these generously 50 to 70 kuna. So look at the bills for electricity, for heating, etc. Well, that's growing by 150 to 200 kuna per account. For water, that's terrible! Well, there's 9,000 people on my island on my island, a man from FINA told me the other day, four thousand of them came to me. From where? For additional health and water from the water holding for groundwater. Four thousand people were blocked that day on the island. What are you talking about? Is that protecting that poor man in the Republic of Croatia? Where did you find that information? Well, there's only 60 grand more at the unemployment office. Not to mention the price I don't know about gas, not to mention, you're saying there's no deficit. Well, we have this year's budget, which is two billion more than it was left in 2011's expenses. So what are we talking about? How long before people put up with a fairy tale like this, it's no wonder they laugh at us here in the Parliament sometimes because this doesn't look like anything. That's why you said 120 kunas more than less. I'm calling the Grenf of Alan Ford again, better to be rich than not to be. And that's it. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33676	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33677	My dear colleague, you said what you were talking about. I'm talking about the state you've left this country in, and thank you for bringing it out, and it goes in favor of this story of mine. It's all the consequences of what you left behind. I'm talking about it, and I can see that you can't hide it anymore, and I'm asking you not to interrupt me, and I can see that you can't hide in what state you left the country anymore, and you're starting to talk. I'm glad you joined this story. Of course I do, there's got to be a political cheek, so say it all but good about cheeks a second time. About the deficit, the fact is that the deficit of the last few years of your reign was 14, 15 billion. It's five billion lower now. That's a fact. It just doesn't change. That's right. And if we did, and I'm going to repeat that we took, or even last year, five billion, five billion, and this year, we could have shared five billion hands and hats with everyone and citizens, not to collect electricity and gas, but to cover it from the budget, to buy the social peace that you've been doing. Unfortunately, that didn't help either. You lost the election again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33678	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33679	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelusic, if everything were true, what you're saying, is that this is how you segmentally extract certain parts, then you wouldn't be such negative macroeconomic indicators. But you obviously don't want to admit the truth, the 2003 deficit for the 80 billion budget was 15 billion. Deficit 2008 Before the crisis began, it was 208 billion. So these are facts. But it's also the fact that you, by tax changes, by raising the price to Croatian citizens, took 7 billion out of your pocket. And you can't get away from it. And that is how you confirm that the last 11 months of Croatian citizens are less buying it. And don't sell any fog like you left behind. That we left in the third quarter of economic growth, in the second quarter of economic growth, and in the fourth quarter was zero. And what you did, minus 2%. But a colleague of Jelusic's and you and I and anyone can shoot each other all we want. Unfortunately, the new 70,000 unemployed, the complete construction sector, has no use for it, and that shows the vanity of these discussions of ours, but you can't escape from the facts. You can't get away from the macroeconomic indicators, you've been messing around, you've been messing up, and then the rating agency at one point told you there's a lot of mugging and tampering, you're going down with the ratings. And finally, my colleague Jelusic, no matter what crisis she was, no matter how you say that HDZ government was like that, but it never happened that the salaries and pensions were late. Never. It's always been paid for. And what's happening to you today and that's the result of your ability.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33680	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, pal Jelusic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33681	I'm glad you mentioned how often you from your bench tax presses how we burdened Croatia, how we burdened the citizens and the economy with taxes. And how we sucked the money out of the citizens and from the economy into the state register. The fact is that no tax in the economy is imposed, but the fact is also different. If we had improved the charge, now everyone in Croatia must pay taxes and therefore have filled the cash register. Not by increasing the rate, but because everyone has to pay. During your reign, it is not obvious that everyone has to pay taxes. Someone paid, someone didn't have to pay. And now those who suddenly say we have to pay taxes now, it's pressure on the economy. Well, please, nice and tax should have been paid by now, except some of them didn't pay it, and some of them paid the right ones. The companies that paid them neatly no tax actually happened, paid before taxes, paid now. Those who didn't pay, who stayed in debt, now they have to pay you. And you think it's obviously still wrong. That is why you have not touched them, and that is why you have increased. If it's a press, I'm for the press to pay all taxes, or increase rates. That's what we did, and let's not run away from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33682	Thank you. My colleague, I beg you to stick to the Rules of Procedure, you did not get your word, I'm sorry. I would once again ask my colleagues and colleagues as chairman, I must refer you here to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which is applicable, which is here on my desk. And we have the last line, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33683	My friend Ivo, I think we should be all friends here in the Croatian Parliament, not the enemies. I'll just say two things. God gave no more of them and no more of you in power. Obviously you have shown both that you do not know how this Croatia is doing at all, except for the first July in the EU, so we will all praise the next twenty years. I'd like something about the influence of the VAT on so-called. VAT and its impact on the economy, not just on the citizens. So here's one Germany, one of Angela Merkel's first measures, and even those Social Democratic and SDP prime ministers were the VAT reduction, not the VAT increase. One of the most important measures for the recovery of the German economy was the reduction of VAT. According to you, neutral VAT. It's simply the law of a coupled vessel. So if the VAT is smaller then the citizens will buy more, then the product will be more on the shelves, in the salons, unfortunately we do not produce cars but the citizens are more buying, the manufacturer more products. In order to produce more, more jobs may be needed and the whole process of production is in motion. One of the other measures, and we are obviously not going to implement this, although one of the most important promises was decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation of Croatia. It will start Croatia. not this intelligence in the Parliament or intelligence in the Government of the Republic of Croatia It's working in local self-government units in the county, not in Mark's square, my friend Ivo. [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33684	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here's my colleague Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33685	counterpart Vinkovic, yes, it is true that VAT has been increased not to dispute, but what are its consequences. Of course, if people have less money that they have less purchasing power and it reflects on the economy, it's a familiar formula that's nothing new. But I'll repeat, I don't know which time, the VAT we increased by 2% points, and that would have been if there hadn't been a change in the pay structure, the purchasing power was less than 2%. But for those who have below the average salary, we're changing income taxes I repeat the 6th time we increased the salary by 2%, and his purchasing power remained the same. The purchasing power of the one who has a big salary you and I are reduced by 400 kuna, but it's not reduced to buying the edges of the one from which the economy lives, we'll possibly drink less in the cafe. That's where we'll save up, and other things we can still buy because we've got enough pay. But it won't hurt the cafes or the hospitality because we've removed the VAT from 25% to 10%, so they'll prosper. So it's a little more complicated than you're saying. And about the alternative I know you said what we agree that the past government worked badly and did not give God and that they are not a good solution, you are not satisfied with us either, you are offering as an alternative. Well, if you're an alternative, then we don't feel well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33686	Thank you. We continue with me asking you colleagues here to express their opinion and we must respect the difference of opinion, right. We move to an individual debate, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33687	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I'll speak... I'll speak normally in the Parliament. We support immediately saying that laborers support a minimum wage increase and that we will certainly raise our hands for this law on Friday, unequivocally, even if it is an increase of 170 kunas gross, 120 kunas net or whatever it is. But it should be admitted that it is a correction of the damage done. The damage began to seem long ago and certainly not to claim that all that was bad was this government's fault in 14 months. But this government won the election and she said we know we have the formula we're going to do it. None of that came true, nothing, anything that shouldn't fall. So this increase in the minimum wage is lower and this increase is 30 percent back if we count since it's frozen. Remember everything that has been collected since 2009 and the minimum wage has been the same. How many more workers do they have? They don't have anything else. They're actually how I'd say our fellow one-day pensioner Caine's mockery. The government is negotiating with the unions hard, but that's why it listens to the unspeakable bankers at the same time, the government listens to powerful corporations. First he listens to them, then he protects them. What's he protecting them with? It protects them by keeping their interest, by keeping their profits. Remember how the government reacted when telecommunications companies demanded a 6% reduction in that tax. They made a quick deal in four eyes, made a press conference, and it was all taken off. And how does the government treat those who chose her? Takes where he gets, takes where he can. First, it increased the VAT that affected all citizens and was affected, as the economy was affected by the law-jointed vessels. The price of electricity, gas, heating has increased but not by a few percent by 20, 30% and more and only in the last year. The abolition of the government is, in fact, the minister's proposal to abolish the minus. Somewhere I read on a portal in an actress's column, says if the government shuts it down, we can all jump into the Sava. Well, maybe it's the government's goal to make as many citizens jump into the Sava, the Drava I don't know what all the rivers are, and then those who are nagging are gone, all those whose water is down to their throats are gone. But I hope we don't have to jump into the Sava. So this raise in salaries certainly is a contribution to those who have the least, but with that you don't need to drill into the chest because remember that Plan 21 your coalition partner says is dead, and if the plan is dead and you're working on it, then the government is dead. What will the dead government do? Because you're watching out for a coalition partner who's still with you in the government says it's a dead plan and no one even calls him to the government. I don't know. It's hard to understand. Let's just say I'm not quoting, I'm going to quote a Slovenian... and that quote could be taken by this government as its patent. He said eat faster, prices rise, and the government might say eat faster because tomorrow you'll have even less, because tomorrow they'll collect something more, but you've raised workers to those with the lowest incomes, their 100,000 salaries by 120 kuna. I repeat, this is minimal damage recovery. The unions heard this we had to accept, but you must know one more thing, and HDZ followed the logic in 1999 to stop Reuters, you do it year and a few days here in the Parliament, all the topics that are important to push in the afternoon because you think if it's far from the ears of the public and then we're on horseback, then we're going to counter something. We are discussing a minimum wage in a deaf age, but no one can stop the poor voice sent by this government. This government is stronger than Reuters in a bad voice. And actually, it would be best, before I heard a fellow rebel and that minimum wage is too much of a burden for the employer. So let's cancel the minimum wage and cancel the salary, so it's best that every worker comes to work to give the employer 100 kunas because what they're going to do, why would the workers even get something. It will then be a real stimulation for the growth of the economy. Look, we've come here now, and we'll be on Friday's Arbitraries about whether it should be supported or not. By 1998, this issue was regulated by a collective agreement, the employers, the government and the workers, or unions, agreed, but you want to do it with regulations. You've centralized everything that could be centralized. Someone once said I couldn't, I don't know if the minister said it, fix all the drin, it's true. However, you have managed to bend all the way to Sava, Drava, Mura, Danube, you have achieved the impossible. Remember that Vrdoljak Minister Mr. Vrdoljak said a few days ago, 10th, 15th, that only a fool could live in Croatia. Remember that title, it was big in the paper. And fortunately, the vast majority of Croatian citizens show that research is very smart, as many as 93% of citizens want to leave Croatia, only 7% are satisfied with life in Croatia. It's a state of mind in Croatia, it's terrifying. And then you have to ask yourself in 1990, 1991, when people were killed for this country and if they saw it today, they'd say if we were fighting for this. 93%, only 7% of people by research are satisfied with life in the Republic of Croatia, that's terrible. And here we're arguing like it's not much, but it's good, 120 kuna. But we didn't say anything, we're still discussing one little thing, we didn't say in that segment that we would discuss here in the Croatian Parliament what the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do to stop the standard from falling as it has stopped falling in many other countries. As lonely as we are, we are in many ways a lonely island. We destroyed all the production, destroyed the farm, destroyed everything we could. We have no hope and perspective, and we do not have a particular hope and perspective with such a government in which the minister says only fools can live in Croatia, only those who.... Who will invest in Croatia, the minister himself says, who will invest in Croatia, so no one will talk to the government that way. And I repeat, no one is saying that 120 kuna is not something, quite certain that it is not enough, we will raise, at least I because we do not have a dictatorship that we need to raise our hands for, which we do not need to raise our hands for because 120 kunas will be something, but after a few months after these early protests that are organized, after we see, after a good tourist season that nothing has started because no segment in this society has improved from it, no reform has been made, no strategy has been heard here in the Parliament, I don't think a great optimist can be, except for those 7% of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33688	Thank you. We've reported five replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33689	Dear colleague, there have also been statements of a random state, of random citizens, etc., but I would not now enter the quoting of the great people who lead this government. However, I would like to say that in Croatia, there is an alternative in the Croatian Parliament. One of the alternatives, I answer to my friend Ivy is the HDSSB, which advocates decentralisation, including fiscal decentralisation. Because it is evident that in this 23 years of Croatian state decentralisation has brought among other things and that one of the generators of this situation we now have because the problem was only solved in Zagreb, in the Government, not in the Parliament. At that time, the parliament was a voting machine like it is now, and even today, it is the rule of former Parliament president who said that many politicians often disagree with their own opinion and raise their hand. And now that's where my friend Ivo turns out to be, who raises his hand, and he probably doesn't agree with that. And the entire Kukuriku coalition turned into voters, a decision they're not quite sure about themselves because who can raise their hands to raise VAT by two percentage points, as my friend says, and he in office was one of them, as I did, who was yelling at a roarer, a harrassor. Well, that's a hell of a hack! That's not what that Suleyman guy was doing to you. He had 10%, and 25%, and now that's that neutral VAT that doesn't affect the standard of citizens, and God doesn't affect my economy. Whatever!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33690	Answer, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33691	Here's a colleague of Vinkovic's very short time. Surely there is an alternative because imagine that there is no alternative to how sad it would be and more and more citizens of the Republic of Croatia show that there is an alternative. And I'm sure I don't see an alternative in you, but I see it in the Laburists. And by the way, the polls show, and that's what the polls show. Therefore, especially those on the right will soon stop the dumplings in the throat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33692	Thank you. We have the next line, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33693	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Vuksic, you mentioned in your debate that this state is protecting bankers, lawyers, and you forgot to tell yourself. Of course, with a bill like this because it was a very easy move. Here you employers give that 100 and something kuna and thing solved. Someone will find their own interest in that. But I wanted to say in this section about bankers and lawyers. I wasn't talking in vain about these performances that are coming to Croatian citizens these days, which has become a monster. Today, we too have over 250,000 blocked Croatian citizens of 17 billion. You can imagine how long it'll take for those 17 billion to charge on these special accounts, for sure and for several years, and the number to increase daily. And what does that look like? He showed me a friend. On the debt for the water supply, these are the seawaters charged by Croatia's public water company on 3000 kuna which he did not pay from 2006 you have interest 18, and 15, and 14 tight interest rates. Tight interest on 3,000 kuna 1500 kuna of tight interest. At this additional cost of the 650 kuna law firm, the cost of deblocking the account is 75 kuna and is collected in a time of 5000 kuna and some kuna. I'm asking this government with which measures she has freed the citizens from the cost of 2,000 kuna which is charged only on one occasion, not to talk about teletele operators where you pay more than 1100 kuna for a 5 kuna debt to unblock you. Over 1100 kuna. Can we end this kind of move? We can't. Well, that's the biggest question now. These people don't work anymore. These 250,000 people don't work at all. Those of these minimum salaries question what they get, not to mention the pensioners, the unemployed and all those who don't even have a receipt. That's our problem. Where's the law firm's tariffs? One lawyer on just like this once makes a few million kunas if the number's over a few thousand here. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33694	We have a reply to the replica, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33695	Dear counterpart Boric agrees with the other part. The government protects banks, corporations. We've already said a few times that everything points to actually. We don't need to give that adjective that it's a neoliberal government because it does it to itself. But you said the state was protecting itself. I disagree. No, the government is protecting itself. Because if this government were to protect the state then it would protect the citizens because remember when the U.S. Secretary of State came to Zagreb and when the first president of the late Tudjman kept a note and said the state does not exist for herself but for the citizens. The state is a citizen. Therefore, if you were to protect the state, then you would protect the citizens. No, this government protects itself to stay in power as long as possible, and therefore collects those harras that are spoken of here and to give the most vulnerable part of the citizens a drop to survive until the next elections and to try to sell some more flossules they will need to buy in the next election and now in this pre-election campaign. However, they sober quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33696	Thank you. Next replica Drazen Djurovic. Here's my colleague Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33697	Well, here you are, Agent Vuksic, pointing out a whole series of interesting remarks, but I think that the same thing has happened here in my opinion for the general trend of these discussions that are actually trying to get out of this misery and which is where the state is today, from this very wrong direction in which all things are actually going to get out of some thread to the leader that's going somewhere. But this direction doesn't really lead anywhere. When I spoke systemically, so here's an example of going back to the Ministry of Labour. So, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system of the Republic of Croatia has few countries in the EU. Most EU countries have labour and social affairs ministries, not the pension system. Most countries. When these 27 labour ministers are in the EU, I don't know who the Netherlands is, because I don't see that the Netherlands has the Ministry of Labour. I don't know exactly who's representing Denmark, because I haven't found on the websites of Denmark that Denmark has the Ministry of Labour. I don't know who's representing Finland, 'cause it looks like Finland doesn't have a Ministry of Labour either. Who represents Sweden, because Sweden doesn't have the Ministry of Labour either. Who represents the Republic of Ireland? So there are a number of countries, and not countries that are particularly underdeveloped, but primarily Scandinavian countries that do not have the Ministry of Labour, but have different governments, and it could not be said that labour law and social rights are at some low levels in these countries. So I'm still standing at the point where we actually have one systemic problem and we're actually often getting involved in something that's rolling in one wrong direction, so this whole story and this whole ministry thing, I don't think it's going anywhere good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33698	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33699	It's hard to replicate. I also agree with a lot of things. I agree with the fact that the government is actually going in some direction, chasing but wrong. That's what we all see the government chasing. I used to say in my discussion that systemic problems, because we didn't find any systematic solution, a system solution. It is absolutely certain that the countries you mentioned, these are Scandinavian countries, that they have solved the issue and employment in a far more adequate way than they have solved in the rest of Europe, without speaking here in Croatia, that they have solved all social issues and they are not the social state because they give the poor crumbs there than the redistribution of wealth is done in a completely different way. However, we go to that wild capitalism, neoliberal capitalism in which a handful of rich people will give to the poor, open the mere cuisine, and be good very generous to those who have nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33700	Thank you. And we have two more replicas. Dinko Buric, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33701	Thank you. Dear colleague Vuksic when you mentioned Minister Vrdoljak then I could not resist and also not remember it is not the only pearl. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister comes from Slavonia and Baranja, so here's when they set us up with that game with the two statistical regions that we got for Valentine's Day then that gift that on the map of regional support to the new one fell our right to support every investment in Slavonia and Baranja from 50% to 40%, because by the old one we had 50. And when we warned that the first step would already be devastating for Slavonia and Baranja, then they laughed. The same Minister Vrdoljak, the economy minister, said that as they rebel in Slavonia and Baranja, those who rebel against and these regional support maps will be, foreign investors will be attracted to an important comparative advantage of Slavonia and Baranja, which is that there is the cheapest workforce there. Here, I'd say we shouldn't comment specifically if he said I don't know where, let alone when comes the minister who's from Slavonia and Baranja. But Mr. Vuksic here has been said several times, and what are the concrete measures, that's what counterpart Jelusic said, so suggest something! Well, here's what we're proposing, we keep suggesting and you're not listening. So concrete measures to improve exits from this situation where we increase the number of unemployed is to reduce tax burdens, not to increase tax burdens. To cut salary contributions because it will encourage employers to hire, not fire people. One measure for you is that you don't even implement this law on the legalization of illegally built objects that will really force citizens to remain without property and without grandfatherhood and without everything they had because you put such a burden on them that 90% won't be able to withstand them. These are your measures, and you have and told you colleague Vinkovic decentralisation, therefore. We have a situation where they have suggestions, they're told and they don't listen. The only states that have begun to emerge from the crisis are those that have reduced tax burdens and not raised them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33702	Thank you. Comrade Vuksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33703	My colleague Buric, yes, I do not seem to know if they have the interest of Croatia in the idea that Slavonia is not in Croatia, I do not know if they did not protect the interests. The interests of Slavonia as well as the interests of Zagreb should be protected, as well as the interests of Međimurje, Dalmatia, and it is certainly not a smart move to make it impossible for someone to get more money because this gives Croatia not only Slavonia but Croatia is richer for as much money as you would withdraw more from European funds. And what you said was a cheap work force drill, so that's certainly wrong. Tell me which country in Europe has escaped from the crisis with cheap labor. It is the only cheap workforce that can import, move jobs to other cheaper countries where labour is cheaper. But they got away with good programmes, they got away with strategies and they got away with reforms, not with what the Croatian government is doing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33704	Thank you. And the last replica, Marian Skuric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33705	Thank you. Dear Mr. Representative, first of all, I find it really interesting because the observations that are not on the subject but beyond the subject that you're always doing are very difficult in some things to unite, but I'd like to point out a few. The first thing you said about what employers should give a minimum, let them give 100 kuna each. So now what should you say about what you've done with these employers and businessmen in Croatia? I give you advice, call on them as soon as possible, and you have their associations, and tell them in your eyes, and let us hear what they think of you as regards these employers. On the other hand, I'd like to notice the same thing to see you're very fond of research. And what this observation of yours is that 93% of smart people in Croatia would like to leave Croatia. I guess those 7% who would like to stay and always stay in Croatia fight for what we have are probably a propos of that stupid. So I'd be interested in you as a parliamentary representative in that investigation when they contacted you, and where did you opt for that part? Where are you? And thirdly, there are really alternatives, I would really like to hear one alternative from Lesar as prime minister, and of course you as mayor of Zagreb. Of course the election's here, we'll see how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33706	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33707	A respected colleague tells me a man from a party who has 1.8%. Well, that's really comical, that's really comical. You were saying something about Croatia, weren't you? This is how you are, the HNS is the protector of large capital. Your president so far is a big capitalist. So you and I don't understand each other at all and we'll never understand each other. I don't know what the SDP is doing with you, what kind of coalition of social democracy and large capital? But that's your problem. That's what your fool was talking about, also your very good Minister Vrdoljak. I wasn't talking. I just put three, four facts together in a very interesting conclusion that fell into your ear because you heard it and that's why I was saying it. Your minister, who is this, in any European government, to declare this to a country he should lead at the same time, would be removed. In Croatia, however, ministers are being replaced for some other reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33708	Thank you. This is what we're done with, and we continue our individual debate, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate. So the promoter said in his proposal that minimum wage is a protective social instrument. And if we go from that to that they create a major dispute between what the government has proposed in the law and what we are thinking in the HDZ Club, and what other colleagues are thinking. So I personally believe that a minimum wage as some kind of social protection instrument cannot be spoken of unless it is the result of certain economic indicators. For the simple reason to talk about minimum wage in such difficult conditions is practically impossible. Why I think and think that minimum wage must be the result of certain macroeconomic indicators and certain economic movements. Well, there are few entrepreneurs in Croatia, we're talking about a law that applies to the Republic of Croatia, which will have some huge profit and will not pay its worker, will give him some kind of pay every level. I think that's the kind of thing you can talk about. Unfortunately, Croatia because of the structure of its economy, I said that when the 2008 law was passed, certain economic branches simply cannot pay even that minimum wage. I can't pay for it because the situation on the market is like that and who's going to survive, just textiles, wood industry, leather can't even pay that salary. And you can see, Mr. Minister, that then the economic category is something that needs to be a basic parameter and a basic criterion for determining minimum wage. And the logical thing is that these employers will go with one theory and unions will fight another theory and that's the logical thing. But the only thing that's good and efficient is that the government as some sort of Moderator, trade unions and employers agree on something. It's the only thing that's good. and when they bring it together, then it can be said that the economic criteria are met. Why? Well, because employers won't agree to anything I can't pay, which leads them to ruin. And unions also won't accept what they think is below each level. And that's why it's not clear to me that you're running away from economic criteria and you're introducing administrative criteria and you're eliminating practically those who need to decide on it, but the government is going to decide on it and that's what's wrong. But when we talk about minimum wage, then it's very interesting your definition of a protective social instrument. And that social aspect of minimum wage is very important. Why? Well, because today we've discussed a lot of things here that have nothing to do with this work. However, many things are the result of this social work, and each of the colleagues who discussed it wanted to warn them in their own special way about this social aspect. Why do I think those two things are tied up and that if we don't combine them, we can't say that we've achieved what we want. Because I'm not going to say that this government or any other government doesn't want to protect because it simply wouldn't be fair and correct. Now you can't take the right to tell me that I'm giving a political speech if I offer an alternative, and I think it should be done in a different way. And Mr. Minister, when we talk about the social aspect, I think that at the time the government made a decision to increase the electricity price and increase the price of heating and the increase in the price of gas had to be that social aspect. Why? So if you take an average apartment in Zagreb, Split, Varazdin, we can't do good to Split because they don't have that kind of heating costs. But let's say in the continental part of Croatia of 60 square meters, the electricity price of heating or gas price depends on what has on average dropped with 500, 600 kuna per month with your increase in the seventh month. And the increase in this minimum wage is 170 kuna. Now that this whole story when we talk about minimum wage, we had this social aspect on our mind, then somewhere, we had to make sure that that group of citizens who make under the living minimum were provided with funds and that this increase did not apply to them. And then I would accept this definition of yours that minimum wage is a protective social instrument, but since you didn't do it, then your basic definition simply doesn't stand. It just doesn't stand. And we in Croatia until we realize that social policy is run through the budget and talk about the market and market prices in a country where around 500 thousand people get paid below 3 and a half thousand kuna, in which more than 70 pensioners have pensions below 2 thousand kunas cannot talk about the market price of energy. It's that social aspect but with the economic category. Well, you can't have one pensioner who has two thousand kunas who has earned one piece in the former South, one piece in Croatia in war years and one piece in Croatia in post-war years saying that he can pay the cubic gas of three kunas and 75. He can't. And you can't tell someone who, underlining the circumstances, his company is in a situation where they can't pay him more than a minimum wage, so he can pay for schooling to children, so he can pay the price of electricity, the price of heating like this was imposed on him by this government. So that's what we may have discussed today in this House, and that may be our task without the intention of giving political speeches. Because we really think if we think that people in Croatia are going to fall for this kind of demagogy. Then we really underestimate those people who chose us in this House. But Mr. Minister, one thing you didn't want to admit as a party five years ago, unfortunately, you're paying today. You do not pay, but pays for Croatian society and budget in great difficulty. So when five years ago it was said that so many and so many percent of the state budget was given with certain rights you laughed and you didn't want to admit it until four months ago, that you would have come into a situation today that you have to cut the salary of 3%. So that's when you run away from the truth when you run away from the naked economic indicators, you convinced the Croatian nation last year that you would have, not you, but your colleagues, that you would have an 8% economic growth. When already in the 6th month, based on parameters that existed clearly saw that economic growth in the Republic of Croatia would not be. And you also need to know that many have kept their companies and production on what they agreed with workers to go to minimum because one part of them will have to go to the street. And these are the same facts that we can't escape from, and that's why the minimum wage can't be based on administrative categories, because these five categories that you listed inside, Mr. Minister, they're all administrative categories, they're not economic categories. And the minimum wage is to be paid by someone who needs to earn that kuna. It has nothing to do with these categories that you're talking about here because you're talking about that nothing happened to the minimum wage, so look what happened to the revenues in the state budget. They fell to level 2005. You know how much income in the state budget decreases GDP by 1% and why the problems are in the state budget. The situation is also with those who earn and pay workers. And to end with that because my time is coming out, unfortunately both with tax policy and with a lot of your laws they wanted you to admit it or not you wanted to create an anti-entrepreneurship climate in the Republic of Croatia. You simply forced the entrepreneurs into a corner, and none of them thought of doing anything but simply waiting for what to happen. And this law is pure demagogy. She unfortunately, with all due respect with these 110, 120 kunas won't help those people. If you hadn't raised the price of electricity or gas, it would have helped them far more. And let's accept sometimes that even the debates in this House can serve something good. There are people here who have some experience. Your key problem with these governments was that you did not want to accept the facts, you started from the wrong points and unfortunately lead Croatia to ruin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33710	Thank you. The Republic has Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33711	Thank you very much. Well, here's a fellow Shucker in your debate, you said this law was an instrument of social protection, that it was said by the authorities. I think this law is problematic and he's kind of mocking the dignity of the workers because we bring this down to fact and the amount of money, so we say 120 kuna, so we helped something. No, I don't. And we don't have the consent of the third party to give those 120 kunas. What's gonna happen to us? Well, it's not a single pay problem, so let's say it's 170 kunas, but you have to give 12 such salaries per year, so it's 2100 kuna per worker, and 10 workers it's already 21 thousand kuna. If we have 10 of these, the employer will certainly make up for it, let's say an additional imposition or loss that must be made by the state and fired by one worker. We helped nine, and we sent one to the Bureau. There may be more of them in what times are being done today and how the economy stands for us. No one would object to the amount if we at 2900 kuna could settle all the bills, educate the children, so we could eat, pay for what we have to. But that's impossible because the state sided with those who can take it. And she says herself at this point she stands as an arbiter who generously gives no matter who should pay for it. And because of this, there will be problems, and yet in the end, it will be brought to the back of the state itself and to Mr Mrssic's portfolio, which proposes such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33712	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33713	That's exactly why I said that the economic criterion is the basis that must be given whether that minimum wage will go up or down. For he who pays the wages and if he does not earn enough money this month to pay the 2900 kuna he will not be able to pay either VAT or contributions at a given time and will be found under the Financial Business Act in a pre-determined settlement. But it's very interesting that customs officers, tax collectors, police officers and other civil servants had no instrument to protect themselves when last month they didn't get paid until 20th because the state of course will punish the entrepreneur, they won't punish themselves. So this is one difference in understanding relationships with those who can create and those who work for them to create. So there must be a balance and without one very synchronised game this will unfortunately end up in the wrong direction. Because you can't say someone needs something to pay for if he hasn't earned it because he doesn't have anywhere to pay. What's gonna happen? Either you'll have 10 new or 100 new people on the stock market or you'll have a firm that's going to be in front of a bankruptcy deal because he hasn't earned it and he can't pay it, and you've based some kind of administrative measure on what he is. Because look, if you claim it was in the law of 2008 it was envisaged if GDP growth is so. If the drop didn't reduce the minimum wage, but look at the size of the company and the 70,000 army are unemployed because of this crash of GDP ended up on the stock market, and that's why, and that's the parameter that you can't ignore. Let's all turn it around together and he'll create an opportunity for this minimum wage to be this way tomorrow 3500, 3600 kuna. But here's your administrative measures you won't do anything because it was the same story that I came to your medical spheres and started talking about how to treat someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33714	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, fellow Shuker, but the replica is from my colleague, Boric, not the minister. Finally, on behalf of the National Minorities Club, a colleague of Denesh Shaw's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33715	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Right away in the introduction, I would like to stress that our club will surely support the adoption of this law, but given everything that is being discussed here today, I felt the need to say a few words. First of all, certain findings both on the left and on the right often lead a person to think, I guess someone is convinced that the government is deliberately seeking to propose a legal regulation that will worsen the standard of our citizens. I think that, though, I'm sure that's not the case, and that there are serious problems, that's the fact. However, there is a lot of talk about jobs and that is a fundamental problem. I would like, in very concrete examples, and in a certain way, that gentleman or colleague of Vinkovic, and I support the decentralisation on a concrete example because there are no jobs without investments. I, as head of the municipality last year, singled out a million kunas to build a single social standard facility. In order to build it, I will try very briefly with two examples to support what bureaucracy and administration from the municipality, the county to the level of the state that is always between the government and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and it dictates a lot in a certain way and makes life very difficult. In order to start building this facility we had to buy this property owned by the Republic of Croatia, but in order to buy it AUDI, it is the agency that has it, it had to first question the tender to find in the area of Osijek-Baranja County of an honest appraiser by competition. I'm on my way to that job on February 5nd, February 5th. When they found this man, I prayed to God not to complain about the one who was not chosen because then we would lose an automatic month and a half. To short the story, the man estimated, we went into making all the documents, got consent to the main project, spent the public procurement, chose the performers, and then we prayed again to God not to complain about the one who wasn't elected because we would lose two months again and we could start doing what our people say to take the shovel into our hands, not before or later 15.11. Of course, in two or three weeks snow came, walls and foundations were covered, still standing, the company went bankrupt. If we'd solved all this effectively, Mr. Minister, then somewhere up to 4, 5 months there could have worked at least 10 to 12 workers all year long and that facility would have ended. I don't argue that you don't need to carry out an evaluation, that it doesn't have to be carried out but why it takes a month, a month and a half to wait for every move, for every move. I'll tell you one more case, I just experienced it today, it's just one tragedy. A young farmer of our own who works 150 acres of land wants to build a dairy farm. He's ordered a project, he's got a funding contract from IPA, and what that agency is doing has a contract, and today I'm going to go to HBOR because it's supposed to, he's got a loan or someone to bridge, they've granted him 3.5 million grants because the whole farm is worth 9 million, and 6 million are going to pay back in 12 years. There are concrete documents, he has a contract with the agency or in that IPA programme. Today they say in HBOR that it's a little risky, that they simply trust that contract, or the HBOR, and ask that man to find another bank that will give a guarantee because they don't respect it, calculate it as if he's going to pay 9 back, and he's not going to be given these 3 million and 3.5 and find another bank that will then guarantee HBOR with an additional 2% interest. And by the time he finds it, it takes two or three months...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33716	Comrade Shaw, please conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33717	I'll be right there. Two or three months, he doesn't know, it's impossible, he doesn't know what's gonna shine so the man's tears get in, he gets in the car and he goes back to Baranja. And most unfortunately, he spent 270 thousand kuna on projects and on these papers. So there are problems, I see a big problem, less with the government than with that red tape.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33718	Thank you very much. Finally, on behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33719	Here as we hear these bells, a new pope has been chosen, obviously I first, a white smoke appeared, so I congratulate him first in Croatia no matter who he was, and I hope that he will continue on the way to John Paul II, and that here we will, with God's help and help to the pope, come out of this deep crisis. Now I'm going back to this law. The HDSSB club will support as I said at the beginning of this law. Jadranko, calm down! Given above all the difficult economic situation in the Republic of Croatia and in any case a better sparrow in his hand than a pigeon on a branch. Mr. Ministers, this law is likely to encourage a new increase in the non-taxable part of the salary which will further affect the reduction as it is also one of the measures that has increased standards, but a measure which, without real decentralisation, destroyed the entire local and regional self-government. And first of all, this is also an invitation to here and the government realizes that regardless of the rhetoric that occurs not only with individual representatives, individual clubs, that first of all we want to constructively warn about what is not good, simply give suggestions on how to get out of this really difficult economic situation. One way out is not only the 2% reduction in the contribution to health but it is the total change in the tax system, the total change and the introduction of real fiscal decentralisation, and that is definitely what it was included in that non-existent Plan 21 or not, but it is simply the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, which I hope will finally enter the EU on 1 July, and then we will really need God to help us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33720	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33721	It's late, but it looks like we got the pope. So, before I look back at the law itself, there is no honourable representative for Buric. But when we talk about the number of people who came out of Croatia, there is one piece of paper, a report by the State Department of Statistics that talks about the migration of the population of the Republic of Croatia in 2011. It came out on 29 June 2012. So in a few months we'll have statistics on how many people have entered Croatia, how many have come out in Croatia, so I won't bother you with numbers. But in 2009, 9940 people moved abroad and moved to Croatia 8406. 2011 12699 moved out of Croatia and 8534 moved out of Croatia. Where they moved from Croatian citizens to the EU, so some 4,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia moved to the EU in 2011. When I talk about who's moving out, I'm talking about a young generation. Let's wait and see the statistics. Maybe the statistics will deny me. In 2011, of these 12699 people who moved out of Croatia, there were 1687 people under the age of 19. 3658 people between the ages of 20 and 35. 3292 persons between 35 and 50 years of age and 4102 persons over 50 years of age. It's statistics. Clearly, it is a matter of people who have migrated for various reasons, and when we talk about immigration and immigration, we should always talk about how many people have emigrated Croatian nationality. So, citizens of the Republic of Croatia and how many foreigners because at the same time you have foreigners who move and move out of Croatia. So here's what I wanted to mention, that when we talk about numbers then we're talking about numbers that are based on data, and this is clear data. When we talk about VAT, there is no honourable representative for Mr. Shucker. So in 2009, the decline in gross domestic product was 5.8%. However, the State Statistics Office should wait again. The real drop was 6.9%. 2010. 1.2% but the real drop was 2.3%. In 2011, we say zero. Let's wait until we see the data on the crash, whether it was zero or another. But let's get back to the law. We don't drill into the chest to solve something revolutionary with this law. We're just trying to correct what the current law is doing, which is that it's constantly reducing the share of minimum wages in gross wages. And with this law, we'll go back to the time when, at the time of the adoption of this law, when the share of the minimum wage was 39% in the average net salary. So we're going to get to 38% with this correction. And what's written in the introduction of this law is meant to reach 50%. Dear Representative Shuker spoke about the administrative determination of minimum wage. I am sorry that it has not been read better or wished to better read the law because it is clearly and clearly said that the minister responsible for the work will, in the light of the monitoring of the minimum wage share in the average salary after consulting with the social partners in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, propose a minimum wage level. So, the minister in charge of the work is obliged to conduct consultations. So, no administrative part. So we're going to agree not only on the minimum wage height but also on the parameters we're going to take when we calculate minimum wage. The beginnings are these parameters mentioned for 2013. And finally, this law introduces collective bargaining as one of the negotiation mechanisms and just for the end to say when we talk about the consensus of the social partners I said clearly at the beginning that the consensus on this law cannot be 100 percent, it was never about this first law where the unions say they were somehow deceived because they agreed to a formula that showed that the minimum wage will never grow, it will always remain at the same level. So, as far as minimum wage is concerned, clearly neither side is 100% satisfied. As for employers, employers felt that they should not increase the minimum wage this year but only in 2014, trade unions felt that this increase now envisaged was too little for how much that minimum wage lost for years because it was not increased and inflation grew. So this is one path that's not a middle road, so it's not an arithmetical environment between one and the other, but it's a path that satisfies both sides to a certain extent. We therefore believe that the same way will continue and that we will be able to determine minimum wage in the same way as in most countries. Therefore, in most countries, it is determined in a way that the Government adopts it by a regulation but after consulting with the social partners. And that's better than what we now have administrative determination. You have parameters, the Bureau of Statistics, and you can't affect whether the salary they calculate is enough, whether it will satisfy the social partners or not. What if the minimum wage was growing, would employers then be satisfied, and could not affect the growth because the formula is what it is. Therefore, this absolutely opens up the possibility of negotiations and talks. And for the end of the work ministry, if a colleague is a respected Google in Europe, then he will see that Europe has DG employment social protection, so that he has a minister of labour and social protection or protection, that other countries do it one way or another, that Ireland has a minister of social protection and has a minister of employment. So there are two ministers in one. Yeah, a lot of countries have that. Therefore, we are no exception, and what is a wish is the future for the Ministry of Labour and Pension System to be something like the Arbeist Ministerium in Germany. Look at what he's doing or Arbeist Ministerium Social Protection in Austria, so these are our role models, and that's how we set up the ministry. Just to say that the ministry should also be all the things that you think the ministry should not absolutely reject and what I must tell you all countries in Europe have the Ministry of Labour because it is important because working relationships, the labour market are something that is fundamental to the state and that is why everyone has it, and the EU has a special DG employment where we participate actively and participate in our proposals. And since 1.07, we will also be full members. I'm sorry the HDZ Club won't support this bill. I was hoping to support him despite all that. Okay, that's a political decision. What is quite certain is that workers in Croatia will have minimum salary for 170 kuna gross and that is the only and real fact. This whole thing was just politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33722	I thank the ministers. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'd like to thank the Minister for his cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33723	Final proposal of the Minimum Payment Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 269. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HSU. I would like a representative of the promoter of the respected Bozidar Stubelj, Deputy Minister of Labour and Pension System. Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33724	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, the government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33725	All amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33726	Everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33727	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part, all becoming an integral part of the proposed law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 32 votes are abstentions to the minimum wage law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33728	We continue with a united discussion with three points. - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 242 Proposer of the Law is representative Mario Habek. - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 275 The legislator is the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government. - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 276 Proposer of the Law is representative Dragica Zgrebec. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You've received reports. On behalf of the promoter, do you want a colleague, Habek? We'll go in order. ... Well, I'd like to ask that the debate be kept to a minimum. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's your colleague, Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33729	Thank you, Vice President. Here we are going to be expedient and brief since this is the second reading of this law. Here, I have to say a few short lines. I was recently also at a session of the City Council in Ludbreg, and I can only confirm that the great interest has sparked an initiative to amend the Law on County, City and City Areas, which I referred to in the procedure to the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of most locals in the village of Poljanec. The interest of the Polish locals or the town of Ludbreg to bring this story to an end is really great and I expect that today we will be here in the debate but also in the vote confirm the desire of the Polish locals to become part of the City of Ludbreg. If we put aside all the political passions that any decision always causes, I think I can convey a message that all the political parties that act in Ludbreg and Poljanac give unanimous and full support to the adoption of this law. Why should it not, when this change respects truly the democratically expressed will of the Polish locals themselves, which reflects and achieves their life needs so that I am truly convinced that we can reach a consensus on this change of law. By passing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia on 30 December 1992, the Croatian Parliament established territorial and... The county, towns and municipalities, later the Law on Change and Complementarity, the locals of the individual settlements, caused a desire for their settlement to move to another structural unit of the municipality or city and their legitimate will, the representatives always respected it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, citizens of the village of Poljanec of Varazdin, Varazdin County, have shown a legitimate wish by respecting all democratic standards to separate themselves from the Martianec municipality and become part of the City of Ludbreg. Also by passing the law in 92, the legislator is respecting many of the reasons some of which were also politically decided to make Poljance a part of the municipality of Donji Martianec and that they were, in fact, singled out from the then municipality of Ludbreg. Although I was already talking about this in the first reading, I have to repeat it for those colleagues and colleagues who may not have been present at the assembly at the time but also for the public. So the settlement Poljanec directly leans on the City of Ludbreg as the first settlement from Ludbrega on the state road to Varazdin. The locals of this village have always met their needs in Ludbreg, and even after their separation in the Municipality of Martianec, children from Poljanac continued to attend school in Ludbreg, used kindergarten in Ludbreg, and the locals continued to use all health and cultural services in the City of Ludbreg. For the paradox to be larger, the only settlement of Poljanec in the new municipality of Ludbreg remained to use the postal number of Ludbreg in postal traffic, while the rest of the settlements of Donji Martianec were given a new postal number. In addition to all the above mentioned centre of the municipality of Donji Martianec was twice as far away from the Polish people as Ludbreg. The settlement Poljanec, due to its natural proximity to Ludbreg, has also developed strong economic activity so that the municipality of Donji Martianec has been participated with large funds, but also in investments in the village itself with much smaller ones. Since these days the municipality of Martianec has not adequately resolved the question of kindergartens, one-way classes in elementary school and other problems that have plagued the local settlements of Poljanec have decided to launch a legal secession procedure from the Municipality of Martianec and joining the City of Ludbreg. At the referendum, 65% of citizens supported this action, and the City Council of Ludbreg collected unanimous consent from the City Council of Varazdin County Assembly, and the City Council of Ludbreg asked me to conduct this initiative as their representative in the Croatian Parliament. The initiative was carried out, there is no dispute among the parties at local level, if neither here in the Croatian Parliament nor in accordance with the procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given full consent to those changes. Therefore, the entire procedure from the units of local and regional self-government to the Parliament and the Government is fulfilled, so I propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposed amendment and thus support the democratically implemented and legitimate wish of the Polish people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33730	Thank you, too. The next promoter is the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, President Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33731	Mr. Vice President, I want on behalf of the board, so don't explain, Popovača Municipality is seeking the status of Popovaca City. Otherwise, the Committee for Local Self-Government has supported all three laws and also proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of these three laws, and I will do more on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33732	Thank you, too. And Vice President Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Vice President. On the basis of the initiative from the village of Štefanec, I propose to change the territorial structure at the level of Međimurska County in a way that separates the settlement Štefanec from the Municipality of Mala Saturday and joins the town of Čakovec. Such an initiative was launched in 2007, for the first time in 2008, and I had such an initiative here in the Croatian Parliament, but then the government did not support such an initiative in its opinion, explaining that a lot of such initiatives were addressed to the Government and that it would consider all such initiatives and propose the adoption of amendments to the Law on Areas, Cities, Countys, municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, which has not been done so far. At the beginning of last year, the local settlements of Šefanec began again with an initiative on the detachment from the Municipality of Mala Sobotica and the association of the town of Čakovec with reason. I won't talk much because the explanation is quite broadly written under this law. So that they are a suburban settlement, really the first settlement to the settlement of the town of Čakovec, to use all institutions from school, post office, kindergarten, etc. in the town of Čakovec, not in the Municipality of Mala sabotica, which, where the center of the municipality and the institutions they could use is multiple distances from the town of Čakovec, compared to the town of Čakovec. The initiative was supported, i.e. the necessary decisions were made, the initiative was launched as I said in 2012, accompanied by a copy of the minutes and decisions to continue the implementation of the initiative for the procedure of the isolated settlement Štefanec from the Municipality of Mala Sobotica and the accession of the City of Čakovec. Then we have the conclusion of the Small Sobota Community Council held on 17 July 2012 where they say in one part it would be good to hold a referendum, which also addressed the Ministry of Administration, but on the basis of a reply from the Ministry of Administration, it would actually be good to prescribe the way in which citizens can start such an initiative, so which is exactly the process, which means one third of the citizens who plead for the change of territorial structure. The decision of the town council of Čakovec of 15. November 2012 The years that accept the initiative to join the town of Čakovac, means the conclusion of the Međimurje County Assembly on a proposal to change the territorial attachment of Štefanec in the small municipality of Sudotica in the town of Čakovec. So all the conditions are met. The petition or plea was personal, 440 citizens supported such an initiative of 711 people and compared to the number of voters that is almost two-thirds. Since such an initiative has already been in the Parliament, it has not been rejected because it would not have come to the citizens' meeting but because the government then felt that it would have proposed such changes itself that did not occur, and that today's Government's position, or the Ministry of Administration, was that citizens' initiatives would actually be initiatives through the Parliament and their representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I have put up with such an initiative here, and I expect that in our first reading, we will accept such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33734	I thank the promoters. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's today these three proposals are united, so I'm going to say something about each of these proposals on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. It is about amendments to the laws on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, two of which refer to the change in the area of membership in the County of Međimurje, one of which refers to the change in the status of the municipality in our Sisak-Moslavina County. All three proposals at the very beginning I'll tell the HDZ Club will support. Or something about this first proposal in the second reading, and it is the final proposal of this law. 65% of the local settlements in Poljanec have declared that they want to join the settlement, i.e. their settlement in the town of Ludbreg. We believe that future initiatives should be carried out by the procedure envisaged by the referendum because there was a whole series of concerns about the procedure itself. But we believe that locals have the right, have the right to do most of their needs in the city of Ludbreg and kindergartens and schools, and health services and mail and sports and no less important cultural needs. Today, too, fellow Habek, who spoke of it, pointed out that. However, what we would like to stress in particular, and as regards all three laws, we would say that it is a little unusual that these laws enter into the procedure at this pre-election time when different pre-election promises are in force, but I say again, we do not mind that the village of Poljanec joins the city of Ludbreg because 65% of the locals have made such a statement. We hope that they have been warned that when they join the city of Ludbreg they will have to agree to a cut that is greater than 8% here as far as the city of Ludbreg and that the municipality of Martianec has 5%. Every day when prices increase, when life costs rise, that 3% is not negligible and we believe that it is local and explained to them that they will also have greater municipal compensation. However, we will certainly support this initiative more than 65% of the locals have decided to change their status or to join the city of Ludbreg. As for the other initiative by the people of Štefanca on the detachment from the Municipality of Mali Subotica supported by 440 citizens' signatures, we at the HDZ Club will respect this desire to single out. The initiative signed by the people of Štefanca on two occasions partially responds and the situation on the ground. Some locals say, they doubted the collection of these signatures at all, but we can't judge that here. Their reasons are partly justified. They primarily gravitate the town of Čakovec, most of which are employed in Čakovec, mostly go to school in Ivanac and Čakovec. However, we believe that the baseless reasons which are stated to be that the village of Štefanec is systematically said here in one of the reasons neglected by the municipality of Mala Subotica. Why? Because it even states the maternal relationship that colleagues who are ours are on the ground and who live there say it's not true. The small Subotica municipality has been caring for the even development of all its settlements since the very beginning of its existence. This was especially true of the village of Štefanec. One of these indicators is that when joining the water system only the locals of this village did not show sufficient interest, so the municipality singled out the funds from its budget to get water. Every year, it invests in the development of the settlement according to the local committee's proposal. The settlement was arranged, the infrastructure was built and as all settlements remained in this municipality. For the municipal planning of the settlements, additional budget funds must be additionally met each year because these are not enough funds for which local settlements themselves are paid through that communal fee. Now, we think, in this explanation, that what it says is that even the small subotic municipality is not right as it is said. Citizens themselves have declared that they want to change their status that they want to join Čakovec and thus the HDZ club will support this proposal. The third proposal ahead concerns the change of status, the status of the municipality of Popovac in Sisak-Moslavina County. And this proposal will support the HDZ Club and this initiative, which came from the chiefs and through it from all residents of Popovec Municipality. We need to know that the current Popovaca Municipality is one of 13 municipalities in Sisak-Moslavina County, 6 cities. It is the largest municipality per population. According to the latest census, it has 11.000 905 inhabitants in the current 12 settlements. Not only is the largest municipality it is larger than some cities in Sisak-Moslavina County. The municipality of Popovaca is situated in the northeast of our county on the edge, a very developed area of Moslavina in the area where the Lonjsko polje and Moslavačka gora are touched. The entire area of the municipality is 215.61 km, a very developed area, the center of the municipality is Popovaca well connected not only to settlements within the municipality and other towns and municipalities in Sisak-Moslavina County but also to neighbouring counties with which it borders, which is Bjelovar-Bilogor County. You must know that through this centre of the municipality which is also an important and road point passes the highway A3, a road that connects the west and east of Croatia, the international state direction, but also the main state rail direction. Archaeological sites in the area tell us that this area is still inhabited during the historical period, and the development of the current Popovač Municipality has really progressed in the last years of the 20th century, especially in the past 20 years since Croatia's independence. There is progress in both economic and cultural, and in political life, and we can say that this municipality from a traditional agricultural-stocharic region, the winery and fruitland, has really grown into an urban centre. Today in the area of the municipality, and that's not a little important, and that's why I'm saying, there are 145 different companies, companies, trades. We have a neuropsychiatric hospital, a primary school with 7 districts, kindergarten, library, reading room, home of health, which is a health facility in Kutina, emergency medical care. The current Municipality of Popovac has its own municipal company that cares about water supply, water processing, has HEP, electricity. It is the Križ, the plant of Elektra Križ, but it exists in Popovača, has FINA, Croatian Post Office, Croatian Forests, Šumarija Popovača, veterinary station, banks, fire department, Institute of Employment of the Institute from Kutina, Public Institute for the Management of Protected Natural Values of Sisak-Moslavina County, based in Popovaca, tourist community, home office. Why am I counting everything? It is precisely because we see that indeed this municipality has grown into a large urban centre and that it has a picture of how today the Municipality of Popovača is an administrative and historical and natural and social unit that has a budget planned, the budget for 2013 is 33.2 million kuna. So far more than some towns in Sisak-Moslavina County. Here I am not going to extend really the Popovač Municipality to meet through the public needs of its citizens and cultural and sports needs. There is also a whole series of clubs, a whole series of cultural and artistic societies, and there are very well known, I would say throughout Croatia significant cultural projects. The most famous are those of Voloderje fall the oldest and greatest event dedicated to viticulture i.e. The vineyard area must know that in the 18th century the largest area of the vineyard was right in Moslavina. The special place in the development of the municipality also takes up the tourist offer with wine roads, Nature Park Lonjsko polje and the regional park Moslavačka gora. And finally what is important and what will give more of the city's characteristics to the current municipality is a well-developed infrastructure, I have already said both road and water supplies. The majority of the municipality is covered both by draining and treatment of waste water, and we do not need to talk about telecommunications and electricity, or are these settlements covered by this infrastructure. As the municipality carried out all the necessary advances, it even received an opinion and recommendation from the Assembly of Sisak-Moslavina County, it even produced a study of justification for the status change request, we believe in the HDZ that the Popovač Municipality, and we must note that it has been cooking for a very long time among the people of Popovače to change the status of the municipality in the town of Popovač. But at the end of the day, I have to say something sorry that it is happening right at the pre-election time, at a time when some and the mayor had just encouraged the citizens of Popovač Municipality and said that it would allow them to get the status of the city, so it is interesting that the conclusion from the County Assembly of Sisak-Moslavina of 17th September, which recommended the municipality to initiate a procedure to change the status of Popovač municipality to the town of Popovač, and only the city council could imagine it only 12.11. However, we feel that the Popovač municipality really has every prerequisite for becoming a city, even in this pre-election time where everyone promises anything. So all three proposals from the HDZ club will be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33736	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33737	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The HDSB Club will support all these three proposals, primarily to respect the will of citizens living in the area, regardless of whether they are familiar with the specific proposals of the law that brings them the transition from one unit of local self-government to another, etc., which brings change of the status of the municipality to the status of the city. I hope that with all these three units of local self-government for the citizens themselves who are practically initiators of the amendments to these laws, life after the adoption of these laws that have gone into two readings will be much better than they had so far in their current status. Also, not by entering into whether or not it is someone's pre-election promise, it is not, not at all who will propose future amendments to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, given and such a late debate I will indeed shorten it to a minimum and above all open, unfortunately there is no one from the Government of the Republic of Croatia who gave a positive opinion on all three proposals, simply refer the open question first of all to the possibility of functioning at this point in time of many units of local self-government. In particular, I think of municipalities in the poorly developed regions of the Republic of Croatia, and even cities that have a far greater population here than Popovaca, after Friday of Popovaca, many smaller towns in the Republic of Croatia for one single reason, and this is primarily the centralisation of total incomes and mergers of all tax revenues into the state budget and reminding that at this time, including the City of Zagreb as a unit of local self-government, including all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia, the amount of tax revenues is only 4% that goes towards local and regional self-government. I am also sorry that here today, in these late hours or tomorrow morning, we will not discuss these other two laws, and this is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas in which the Government did not give a positive opinion, and we could also discuss these two laws today in the package, but above all, it is about changing the status, unfortunately for the Government, perhaps these two laws come so to say from the opposition lines, and they are also based on the criteria and will of the citizens of these areas. So the HDSB club will support it, but here I believe that the government's responsible, especially the Prime Minister, will understand that regardless of what side the proposals come from, that there must be neither pre-election promises but that this is primarily the focus of local self-government units towards fiscal decentralisation and major budgets in these units of local or regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33738	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33739	Thank you very much. I'll be as brief as we agreed. Well, my colleague said that of these three laws, I will be based on the one most on Sisak-Moslavina County, or on the change in Popovci's status from municipality to city. I would, however, mention that part of the main reason for this was the pre-election promise as the colleague said the whole chronology of the event and should not run away from it. I think that part and I can even say that it is a little bit and unserious, and otherwise I think that changing the legislation of anyone who can refer to citizens in this sense, like this one shouldn't go before the election, but now it's what it is, it needs to be respected by citizens and it needs to be respected in any case. I would not agree with the fact that the Popovec municipality has all the characteristics of the city now, especially I would disagree with the arguments that have been delivered here to us. I'm not saying they're faked, but in the meantime, the situation has changed, so of these crafts and companies 16 no longer exist, which is probably because of this time that has passed since the proposal itself to this day probably went out in that period. It is also an interesting part that, in terms of tourist offer, this tourist offer has existed since the ages, there is the possibility of this tourist offer that is not realised and will probably not be with the change of this status. I'm talking about this daily tourism, weekly tourism, seasonal tourism, all possible tourism. However, to be honest, it is written all in order for this change to occur. I would like to remind myself quite often that from this pay phone and from these benches talk about reducing local units, the number of units of local self-government. But this is going in some other direction. To be honest, citizens' decision should be respected, although this is actually a decision, the proposal is a municipal council that was unanimous. I have no doubt that anyone has asked, not that I doubt, but any kind of statement, no referendum, even if the advisory one has not held. But, well, these are the elected representatives of the citizens and the decision was unanimous, so it's up to us to respect it. In doing so, it should be noted that clean truths are still not citizens for the sake of newly-roasted citizens, they are still residents of the Popovec municipality. With this change, it will not make any changes in its life except that the Commissioner will likely be mayor in the future, so I wish him much success and happiness in his work, given that he has until the end of the term of office, and we will see further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33740	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33741	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS club Liberal Democrats will support these three proposals, and this is the final proposal and the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and on the basis of Bills 242, 275, 275 and 276. Here I would refer to all three individually, because we've already made many allegations here. First of all, the proposal by the citizens of the village of Poljanec on the detachment of the settlement from the Municipality of Martianec and the accession of the city of Ludbreg is legal and within the meaning of the provision of Article 30(2). Laws on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. And as it has a legal basis, we will support such a citizens' decision. Then there is also a proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Areas of Countys, Cities and Municipalities of the Republic of Croatia which is proposed to be in the current law in Article 23 for the County of Međimurje in the list of settlements of the municipality under regular number 10. Mala Sutotica erases the village of Štefanec, while in the list of settlements and towns under the regular number of one Čakovec behind the village of Shandorovec, the village of Štefanec is added. Also, the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill, and thus the insistence and wishes of the local settlement Štefanec on the detachment from the Municipality of Mala Suotica and the accession of the town of Čakovec. What is necessary to mention is that this initiative was launched at the end of July 2007 and although then a political decision by the government then gave a negative opinion that did not stop the tenants of Štefanec from continuing to seek separation from the Mali Sudotica municipality and seek the accession of the town of Čakovec. As can be seen from the well-founded request in April last year, the necessary actions were made from the requirements of the Municipality of Mala Subotica to the proposal of the town of Čakovec for accession. The Municipality of Mala Subotica was shown in the initiative in accordance with the management ministry directives, and the town of Čakovec unanimously accepted the initiative, and the initiative of the Local Committee of Štefanec was supported by the Međimurje County. The Council of the Local Committee has implemented all the necessary procedures for obtaining the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to allow the adoption of this bill. In particular, this proposal gives a written opinion, i.e. a written opinion, in which the people of Štefanca supported this initiative in a large majority of their signatures. We will support the proposal and because we believe that the citizens of Štefanca have the right to seek their place under the sun somewhere else where they have been, where they already feel that they will live better and more pleasant and develop. Therefore, we do not see obstacles if all the conditions are met to accept this proposal as such. In addition, the general provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government states that the city is the unit of local self-government in which the county is located, and every place with more than 10,000 inhabitants, representing an urban, historical, natural, economic and social unit. The town can also include suburban settlements which, with the town settlement, constitute an economic and social unit. If there is also a historical, economic and transport specific reason for the city, a place which does not satisfy the above conditions may also be established. Based on this allegation, and the initiatives carried out have been driven by the economic and social progress of Popovec municipality over the past 20 years. Also, if the municipality and Popovač, which is truly exhaustive and presented to us in the Assembly, the municipality of Popovač represents an urban, historical, natural, economic and social whole. Although part of the initiative preceded the public debate, a recommendation from Sisak-Moslavina County was received, and the support of all Council of Popovec council members is indeed not in that part of the obstacle to such an initiative and to accept, in particular, what is defined by this decision, where it says in its request that all citizens of Popovac Municipality, or future citizens of the city, will be rewarded. Then I can say welcome to the City Club. If we analyze the kind of club we have in Croatia, then it's 127 cities and mayors, we see that we have 18 cities that have less than 5,000 inhabitants. There are 42 cities between 5,000 and 10,000 inhabitants and 67 cities over 10,000 inhabitants. So we can say 60 cities are below 10,000 inhabitants and 67 more than 10,000 inhabitants. This is followed by having a lot of decisions that are based on the city as well and which does not meet the conditions above that it has more than 10,000 inhabitants, but that it has a certain economic, social, particularly historical and reason to be declared a city. But when we look beyond the allegations under the Law on Local Administration, what is the city that we can see and what the city should be, and above all, from that sustainable economic point of view. And this is that the city should be a place of creation of jobs, places of productivity, growth, creation of new technologies, places of education and education of human capital, which is key to economic development. And when we talk about development, then we can always say that development doesn't happen on its own. And these cities should be the engine of this development and growth throughout Croatia. So now it's always a question of what is said when you come into a circle of cities whether it's true, whether it can be so, whether it can be growth in cities and if we see an analysis that half of these cities and even more than half of the municipalities spend more than half of their resources on all employees and for the material costs of their work and that they are all the biggest addicts on helping the state. Then did the local administrations develop what we said, and they should be. Is it possible that the price and too much independence that we all want to be independent large cities, large municipalities and do not want to cooperate with others? We also need to think about it very carefully. So in that part of the HNS club, I would say, however, that we should highlight two essential facts. It's like we were told to point out that we respect the procedure. So not petitions, not pamphlets, not polls, let it be a referendum that we really know unequivocally that the will of citizens is and as such in the legal procedure is respected. To happen to us that after 20 years we now have a desire that what was before was not good, to see now that we are dependent for 20 years on another city or municipality or that after 7 years when something is rejected now this Parliament will accept it. In that part, we should really unequivocally define the rules under the legislation. And the second part is that we really need to look at the fiscal possibility of each of these individual cities, each individual municipality, not to have the maternal relationship of one city to its own area, the motherhood of the state towards a particular city or municipality, and that each has its own sustainability. We need to discuss this further. Here's one more time all three of these legal proposals that were given in that part of the HNS club are supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33742	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club, the debate will be shared by colleagues Zoran Vasic and counterpart Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33743	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will refer in my debate to the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to the change of the status of Popovac Municipality in the town of Popovac. So before us is the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, as I said, with the change of the status of Popovac municipality in the town of Popovac. And in the introduction, as we have heard, I already want to repeat that 19 units of local self-government, of which 6 cities and 13 municipalities, have been established in Sisak-Moslavina County. And by adopting this proposal, Popovac would become 7 cities in Sisak-Moslavina County. According to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, it is prescribed that the city is a unit of local self-government in which the county is the headquarters and every place that has more than 10 thousand inhabitants and represents an urban, historical, natural, economic and social whole and Popovaca certainly is. Popovaca municipality is a unit of local self-government that has been experienced thanks to the efforts of generations living in its area of transformation of the population, progress of the economy, raising general standards and high urbanisation of its settlements. According to the 2011 census, the Municipality of Popovač has a population of less than 12,000, which meets the demographic criteria for obtaining the city's status and also represents an urban, historical, natural, economic and social unit with settlements within the municipality. According to its external appearance and arrangement of the settlement and the completely resolved municipal infrastructure of the municipality of Popovač, they already look like urban areas. The population of Popovec Municipality completed a complete transition from primary to secondary, tertiary and quarterly activities. More and more people are engaged in economic activities that have affected strong momentum in the process of urbanisation and conversion of Popovač Municipality into a highly urbanized environment. In the last decade, new economic operators have also been opened, resulting in an increase in the budget of Popovač Municipality so that the 2012 budget amounted to nearly 34 million kuna and is greater than the budget of many cities in the Republic of Croatia. In the area of Popovace currently exists and operates 34 companies and about 140 crafts. Some of them are leading companies in their segment in the region and have been operating for 40 years and some of them are also European famous. The area of the municipality is also affected by the neuropsychiatric hospital Dr. Ivan Barbot who takes a significant place in the health care system of the Republic of Croatia. Although the county hospital has the status of care for patients from the edges of the Zagreb ring to the eastern border of Croatia. And the Department of Forensic Psychology treats forensic patients from all over the Republic of Croatia. And just 10 days ago, 15 days ago, Sisak-Moslavina County signed a contract on the realisation of a project of public-private partnership to build a Institute of Forensic Psychology in a neuropsychiatric hospital worth 235 million kuna to reconstruct and upgrade the existing space. The total area of the institution after the end of the investment will be more than 16 thousand square meters where polyclinics, hospital departments, education centre and other facilities will be located. After the work is completed, it will be one of the largest forensic centres in the Republic of Croatia and this part of Europe. In Popovaca, the primary school with the highest students in Sisak-Moslavina County also exists, 850 of them. In the first grade of this school year alone, 90 students were enrolled. And for this reason, Sisak-Moslavina County, along with now Popovaca Municipality, has embarked on activities to build a new primary school building in Popovaca with a total value hall of more than 57 million kuna. The new school building of about 4 400 square meters will increase the standard in school and contribute to even better student success, and the sports hall will contribute to the development of sports in the town of Popovača alone. Popovaca also has a completely resolved road infrastructure, so as long as it is connected to the highway, two to three years ago a complete county road from Popovaca to Kutina was restored, so in the overall length. The total value of the works is around 43 million kuna and is financed from the budget of Žuca Sisak-Moslavina County. The area of the municipality is well covered by the area of nature park Lonjsko polje, the largest protected swamp area in the Republic of Croatia and the regional park Moslavačka gora, which are ideal for the development of continental and above all rural tourism. Speaking of agriculture of the Municipality of Popovač, it should be said that the vineyarding in the area of Moslavina has a 2 thousand-year tradition and, above all, thanks to the indigenous variety of the vines of Škrlet. And so I could still list, and yet, I would like to say this, I do not agree with the the thesis that it is a pre-election promise or a pre-election change of status, because I especially believe that all the citizens of Popovec Municipality are happy that the initiative to change the status of Popovac Municipality is supported by all the council members of Popovec regardless of party membership. Finally, since Popovač Municipality meets all historical, demographic, economic, infrastructure, geo-transport criteria needed for a city club SDP will support the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33744	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a colleague, Vasic, who has absorbed the proposal of the Committee on Local, Or Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament on the status change of the Municipality of Popovac in Popovac and I will say a few words about the proposal of Representative Maria Habek on the separation of the settlement Poljanec from the Municipality of Martianec and the accession of the City of Ludbrec, is about the 2nd reading of the legal proposal and the proposal of MP Dragica Zgrebec on the separation of the settlement Štefanec from the Municipality of Mala Sobotica and the addition of the City of Čakovec, it is about the 1st reading of the law. The Committees of the Local Committees of Polanca and Štefanca have implemented the legal procedure provided for in this Decision. It is agreed, as we have seen, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia remains to be formalised by the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Areas of Countys, Cities and Municipalities of the Republic of Croatia. Legislative proposals shall be accompanied by all necessary documents expressing the views of all units of local or regional self-government which are tangled by initiatives of locals and Poljanca and Štefanca. Thus, respecting the will of citizens, Polish and Stefanca Club of Representatives of the SDP will support amendments and additions to the law. Since this is our support by some of the representatives' clubs has been qualified as their kind of pre-election passover, I will take advantage of the opportunity to point out again even though it was already the opening of the Zgrebec colleague, that the initiative of the locals of Štefanca has already been in the parliamentary procedure in the previous term, but the then government refused to support it. Unlike the previous government, we in the SDP respect the fact that both the Polish people and the people of Štefanac see their future in other more promising units of local self-government and that they both supported their will to change the two-thirds majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33745	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate, Zlatko Komadina. He's gone. This concludes the debate. I thank the promoters, we'll vote when the conditions are met. And tomorrow we'll continue with the 6th point Special Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-13-0.u33746	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 242. The legislator is a respected representative of Mario Habek. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. The adoption of this law requires the majority of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure, i.e. 76 hands. Who's in? And we've already voted? [[Intruder Blažević: We have already voted.]] Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 102 votes, we have passed the Law amending the Law on the Areas of Countys, Cities and Municipalities of the Republic of Croatia in the text proposed by the Proposer. We got another one. Good afternoon. Dear fellow Members of the Croatian Parliament, we continue the work of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the established agenda. It is now up to you - Special Report by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities Reporter is the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities on the basis of Article 17. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. You've received the bill in boxes. You took the materials into the boxes. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would he like to give the applicants an additional explanation? Yeah. Honorable attorney, Anka Slošnjak. Here you go.
