ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45635	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day! We're going back to work. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 238; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. We have with us on behalf of the Deputy Minister of Culture, Prof. Berislav Šipush with a co-worker. Would you like an introductory deputy minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45636	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! A few important things I would like to say about the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media therefore addresses the issues of regulating the Law on Electronic Media with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Administrative Disputes, the Criminal Law, the Law on concessions and the Law on Services. Terminologically, definitions related to the provision of audiovisual media services, i.e. audiovisual software, audiovisual commercial communications, advertising, disguised audiovisual commercial communications, then sponsorship, televisual and plasma products, are being reorganised and the definition of a non-profit producer of audiovisual and/or radio programmes is being introduced. Other provisions of the Law on electronic media relating to the aforementioned concepts and the competence of the Republic of Croatia of European works of the temporary restriction of freedom of transmission of audiovisual media services from other countries are also being developed. It shall be determined that it is not permitted to restrict the provision of protected services or accompanying services originating from another EU Member State and to restrict the freedom of movement of means of conditional access. The status of non-profit media service providers and electronic publications, i.e. internet portals and non-profit producers of audiovisual and/or radio programmes is defined. The co-financing of programmes and content from the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media in such a way as to introduce and co-finance new users, in addition to the co-financing of current beneficiaries of funds and to co-finance new users, namely non-profit providers of electronic publications, meaning internet portals, non-profit producers of audiovisual and/or radio programmes, as well as non-profit providers of media services at the request or non-profit providers of media services that have been authorised by the Council for Electronic Media for Satellite, Internet, Cable and other permitted forms of audiovisual and/or radio broadcasting. Transitional provisions shall provide for funding from the Fund for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media during the transitional period until the application of the new State Support Programme approved by the European Commission. This will continue to apply the current incentive programme for current users. These are TV and radio publishers at local and regional level, but also non-profit broadcasters and/or radio. This means the one approved by the Competition Protection Agency and which is still valid in 2014. In 2013 new users will be provided with 3% of the Fund’s funding to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media, and in 2014 the Fund’s funding set out in the new regulation of Article 28 of the Law will be allocated to these users to support small values under the provisions of this law, which does not require the approval of the European Commission until the application of the new State Support Programme. Therefore, the adoption of the proposed law will also bring the Law on Electronic Media into line with other laws of the wording and should contribute to effective application in practice. We hope this will also contribute to the development of pluralism and diversity of electronic media in the Republic of Croatia, by encouraging non-profit providers of electronic publications, audiovisual and or radio programmes producers and other non-profit media providers from the Fund's means to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45637	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here is my colleague Vukšić, the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45638	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Otherwise, I don't do it often, but I will read the minutes from the meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed at its 22nd session held on 19 June 2013 the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 6 June 2013. The Committee considered the final proposal of the law as a parent working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the adoption of the proposed Law on Electronic Media will be brought into line with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Administrative Disputes, the Criminal Law, the Law on concessions and the Law on Services. It also pointed out that the termologically explicit implementation of the law will contribute to the development of pluralism and diversity of electronic media in the Republic of Croatia by encouraging non-profit providers of electronic publications, non-profit producers of audiovisual or radio programmes or non-profit media service providers as referred to in Article 19, 79. Laws from the Fund's resources to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media. The transitional provisions shall also provide for a time limit within which the Council for Electronic Media will adopt regulations on the basis of the powers laid down in this law and shall be prescribed to apply the provisions of Article 48 and 68 until the decision of the authority responsible for the protection of competition in the award of funds to broadcasters or radios. The Law on Electronic Media and the Regulation on the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity of electronic media and, according to them, the approved State Support Programme. For the non-profit providers of media services authorised to carry out the activity of non-profit providers of electronic publications and non-profit producers of audiovisual or radio programmes referred to in Article 28 of the Law, in 2013 3% of the funds of the Fund for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media, and in 2014 the funds of the fund set out in the Regulation set out in Article 28 will be allocated to these users as support for small values under the provisions of this Act until the change of the new State support programme. Prior to the debate, the Committee adopted an initiative of independent Internet media, as well as remarks and amendments to the final draft law, the National Association of NUTI and Croatian Radio and Newspapers. In the discussion on the board, members referred to these memos and said that independent internet media is seeking the definition of public status in culture and that the proposed law assumes that exclusively non-profit media is driven by public interest which is not true. Independent internet media see this view as discriminatory and contrary to the principles of free journalism. They also hold that they create assumptions for the full exclusion of independent internet publishers whose founders of companies are illegally favouring an internet portal established by a civil society organisation that is categorized as non-profit media. In this way, independent internet media is completely excluded from the country's support and incentives system. The key criterion for the award of public funds must be the quality of the programme or published content, not the legal personality of the issuer. In view of this, they consider that the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media is not in line with the Law on Free Competition and requires a postponement of its adoption. In a letter from the National Association of Television and the Croatian Radio and News Association, the text of the final proposal for a law is contrary to the discussions, proposals and objections made by the Council for Electronic Media and the Competition Protection Agency. They hold an unacceptable increase in the number and type of beneficiaries of the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media and without prior increases in the funds of that fund. It is particularly unacceptable for the beneficiaries of the fund to insert those categories that are not co-financed anywhere in the EU, such as programmes on request and satellite programmes, as this endangers the survival of local and regional radios and TV stations which are legally required to produce a specific programme that performs public function. They also believe that independent producers who are not media should not become beneficiaries of the fund, because they already have the means and purpose provided for by law and set out in the Croatian Audiovisual Centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45639	Excuse my colleague Vuksic, but we are interested in the committee's bet.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45640	That's the board's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45641	That's the board's position? I was under the impression that you were reading the requests of independent electronic media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45642	Yes, everything was said on the board and the committee's position is and you'll hear the conclusion in the end. First time I read, please. Not every time I speak and you're behind this pay phone, you interrupt me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45643	No, not a colleague, Vuksic, nothing personal, but I have never seen in practice so detailedly on the board the views of the individual promoters are being exposed. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45644	We supported those views and that's the conclusion of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45645	The board's conclusion may be a few sentences, but proceed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45646	Let's remember how many Beus Richembergh reads every five, six pages you've never interrupted in your life. I mean, this is really scary what you're doing but on your conscience. I mean, this is really scary what you're doing, but on your conscience The current users of the fund, local and regional, radio and TV stations, the Law on Electronic Media are prescribed obligations, the amount of the programme, the type of programme, a certain percentage of the information programme depending on the level of concession, the time of broadcast of the programme, the squares of space, the number of employees and provisions that the programme of public functions, the information programme cannot be sponsored. [[Intruder: Please proceed.]] The Fund therefore provides funding for the co-financing of this type of programme. For 21 local and regional TV stations from the fund, about 15 million kuna are on average provided for co-financing of 10 categories per year while only the cost of the IT programme is annually at 21 TV stations over 45 million kuna. This means that so far the allocation level has covered only 30% of the cost of the information programme. A further 9 categories of public interest programme were produced. These obligations do not exist for new beneficiaries of the funds proposed to be introduced by these Amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media. The reduction in NUT and HURIN funds would lead to a serious disturbance in business due to changes in the operating conditions that existed in the competition for a 12-year concession contract. Changing the rules would result in the dismissal of employees. They also drew attention to the fact that there is a problem with electronic publications as a beneficiary of the Fund's resources. According to the proposed amendments to the Law of the Republic of Croatia can be made within a short period... unlimited number of electronic publications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By contrast, the number of TV and radio stations is almost final because of frequency limits. As a result, the main purpose of the Fund can be lost in the near future and some of the resources may be allocated to electronic publications. It is important to note that electronic publications have secured and new support from the Ministry of Culture in the amount of 3 million kuna. Therefore, the Electronic Media Council also supported the NUT and HURIN proposal if... electronic publications as users of the Fund to establish by law the Fund's procedure for them, radio stations and TV stations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has also been pointed out that the Council for Electronic Media is an independent regulator and that it is absolutely unacceptable that it must obtain the consent of the Ministry of Culture, which is proposed by members of the Council for Electronic Media, for its own regulation. It is also proposed to provide a penalty for non-compliance with the provision of Article 33. The law stipulates that the authorities of the state administration as well as legal persons in the bulk of the Republic of Croatia owe 15% of the annual amount to promote their services and activities to be used to advertise in audiovisual and radio programmes of regional and local publishers. This would respect the Law, reduce indifference, and preserve jobs. It is also pointed out that the need to delete Article 35 of the current Law which found that electronic media can promote and charge candidates exclusively at the time of the official election campaign, while such a ban is not applicable to external advertising and printing, and it is said that this is also an unfair competition and is indicated. Finally, it was concluded that none of the proposals nor the comments made by this committee under the proposed Law in the first reading were accepted by the applicant. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament 5 votes in favour of and 4 votes against: "The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media is not supported.". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45647	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45648	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister. Now these are not the Committee's views, these are the views of the Croatian Labour Club. After the Croatian Parliament made an indiscriminate, discriminatory decision on unequal taxation of daily newspapers and all on the basis of an ingenious formula that the daily newspaper is the only newspaper that contains 25 thousand copyrights, whatever that means. We have a new, final proposal on another discrimination. In fact, the Law on Electronic Media that we are discussing today is evidence of chaos, above all, in the Ministry of Culture and then in the Government. As the greater taxation of the most investigative newspapers wishes to favour one interested group, of course close to the government and with a bountiful justification that the measure seeks to detimise the tabloid while the preferred stakeholders... your newspaper and 50 and more thousand author words. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this law only wishes to please one group. Who needs to be asked which group, when it comes to young people, will think naives, only cosmetic changes to the law, whom does the legislator please this time? Interested groups close to or powerful or just persistent politicians in the Kukurik coalition. This law is not passed to solve such problems as Mont Everest accumulated in the media, these solutions make problems deepen. The law allows money to be taken to give the same money to others. And no clear criteria. It'll be easier to "goose out of the fog" than we do from that media and political Richet. In the game for public money, the law applies non-profit internet media. Why nonprofits? No one can explain it like they can't explain why 25 grand and one word in the paper deserves as much as 5% less tax than a newspaper with 24 thousand 999 words? These offered solutions between a non-profit medium and a public interest shall give rise to a sign of equality. Does that mean that the only non-profit media is driven by public interest? Therefore, the competition of the pluralism fund and the independence of pluralism and the diversity of electronic media managed by the Agency and the Council for Electronic Media cannot be notified by internet publishers of which companies are founders, if, of course, they satisfy public interest. As the people of the Ministry of Culture did not know, and neither could they explain whether it was news or information, authorial or not, is the news of what we are doing today to satisfy the public good, voted most of the law, it will be another public evil, not public good, or are the interests of the public just comments, particularly dictated in political cabinets, whether publically invented interviews? In fact, although small funds from the Pluralism Fund and diversity will be divided into far more media, with unclear, almost no criteria. In order for Internet media to compete for media incentives to be non-profit, the publisher must be non-profit. For the neo-oliberal government, non-profit is automatic and good, they're in a bit of an ideological phase. No one in this new card-sharing, because it all resembles poker, has calculated how much television will be damaged, 21 of them and how many radio stations will be damaged, more than 150 of them with 2,000 employees. No one has conducted an analysis of whether this new card mix will endanger the network of local electronic media. I read on one portal that I'm fighting for the fates of those 2,000 employees, for the profits of local media. Watch out for local media profits. Whoever knows the situation in the local media knows there's no profit there. Yes, I fear for their fates because I know in what conditions war. And do we take someone and call them incentives, and not deserve it, at local stations and at local TV and radio stations? He does. But that is either the responsibility or the fault of the Council for Electronic Media. The legislator, therefore, imposes on local radio and television stations to compete at all for a concession not quite a small number of conditions. A certain space, a certain technique, a certain number of employees, and a very important programme that satisfies the interests of the public. No other medium should satisfy these conditions to establish itself as profitable, either as non-profit. Fund funds are just for public content support, especially mandatory ones. And to free them from these most expensive public obligations, which is an information program, some wonder. No way. Then the network of local stations wouldn't make sense, the public wouldn't benefit from them, not a single word of the author. Independent internet media have the right to claim that if this law adopts it, it will be discriminated against because the law prevents them from competing for public funds even if all their content is of public interest only. Who's to blame for not being founded as nonprofit. If the media is guaranteed by a civil society or a medium that is registered as a non-profit, content of public interest. I advocate that any media that fulfils the task of public interest and to the extent to which they serve public interest can compete for public funds. I'm betting that these funds are increasing. Is there more public money in this incredible economic depression for the development of media pluralism? There is. I'll also tell you where that money is, but rather an important note. The most expensive thing for those who care about citizens and the public is to have an uninformed public. The most expensive thing to do is to suppress the aspects of the distributed media. Where's the extra money for the fund? On Prisavlje. HRT is still a largely commercial medium and it is a failed commercial medium, without a drama program, without an adequate educational programme, with a privatised information program, with soaps and with the soaping boards of those who disturb the powerful, with a director who had to leave Priviva at the time when he was caught in conflict of interest. After all, he gave his word that he would leave if the commission brought an unfavourable word for him. Instead of leaving honorably, the director I considered the best of six candidates and voted for him, which is why I apologize to the public, is getting involved from an affair in the affair. When a mistake is made, it should be admitted that it was wrong. He did not even know that he could not be a member of the Hypo Bank Supervisory Board and a director of a public service operating with a billion and 500 million kuna. He doesn't know if he should report property to another state. It seems that Mr. Radman has consulted Mr. Sanader on this, who has also not reported millions in foreign banks, considering what Mr. Smiley Falcon once said that money is not property. Because of the complete loss of credibility, Mr. Radman is due to resign today. And we need to do today here in the Parliament what the Committee on Information, Information and Media has done, refuse the Final Proposal to amend the Law on Electronic Media because it does not solve but deepens problems and discriminates. That it is necessary to stimulate, encourage electronic internet media that perform public functions, no matter who their founder is and what kind of formal organisational structure they have. Let's finally put the public interest at the centre, not the publisher's interests, whoever they are, whatever friends they are. Hand to heart, not all television, television and radio stations are doing a job for which the Electronic Media Council rewards them. It is therefore necessary to discuss the tasks of the Council and the agencies related to the media and, above all, to discuss the media strategy as soon as possible. What exactly does Croatia want? What can Croatia actually do to fund what Croatian citizens need to finance? What Croatian citizens must get for their invested money, for their invested money that invests every month in HRT. If we adopt this law, we will deepen our problems, and we will only take advantage of one group with a strong backdrop. But in the back, it's offside because of the bad legislation, not to mention the disastrous HRT Act, which gives the director Pharaoh's powers, a large part of the media. Although they see that many media outlets are in an unauthorized situation, the government is vilifying only you play we set the rules. Finally, prove at least part of the consistency, show that just a week ago when we discussed the Rules of Procedure you meant seriously that you did not deceive, prove that you really want to strengthen the role of the board, so respect the decision of the parent board, which with most votes refused all amendments to the law. Rescind the law, complete it and return it to the parliamentary procedure after we discuss the media strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45649	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one came to Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45650	Dear colleague Vuksic would not agree with you if this were a kind of chaos, although it is true that chaos exists both in the government and in the Ministry of Culture. However, this is about a deliberate policy aimed at controlling media space. This isn't the only law on that trail. We had a law that you said yourself bad about HRT, we had shifts in HINA, we have changes in media laws without a media strategy that was announced. We had the appointment of most of the votes of the Director-General at HRT, and now we want to allocate that part of the funds foreseen for pluralism of the media to those to whom we will decide each year if we will assign them. And imagine, colleague Vuksic, how we will decide whether we will decide on those who will be independent, who will write about the public interest or those who will write positively about us? This is about meaningful politics. At the Ministry of Culture he is an employee advisor whose main job should be to work on making the Media Strategy, about his statements in the media saying that today he doesn't know how many journalists he has, how many employees in the media sector he has and how many media. So we can't almost expect a media strategy. Why we hired these people without a contest if we can remember. This is not about chaos, but about how to control media space, with the money of all taxpayers, regardless of whether it's a public media service or something we call quasi non-profit media, which is the portals of certain associations that we will choose from those who will apply to the competition and each year give them donations according to their media praise of the current government. And nothing else!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45651	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45652	When I was talking about chaos, I thought that the Kukurik coalition could bring the Media Strategy in the first few months and then legitimately based on this Media Strategy to implement all this. However, they change the law by law piece by piece, article by article. What kind of partner a powerful man needs, how their media fits, and how I guess who's persistent. Because I don't think this contributes even to the Kukurik coalition that the Kukurik coalition draws positive points from all of this. In the end, the most damaged will be those we swear to, we swear all the time here in the Croatian Parliament, which is the Croatian people, that is, the Croatian public. The Croatian public lost the most when you mentioned a colleague, Mesic, was passed the Law on HRT when we said it was a law that would reverse what was done on HRT for 20 years and it was bad. But I don't think that since this situation, this chaos has been more chaos, and we haven't had any bigger problems and that this director, the director of HRT, has not been received with greater sympathy than he could have been received from at least one part of the public and one part of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. However, all of this has collapsed and I fully agree that everything they do is working to bring their own benefit to the Kukurik coalition itself and perhaps to some of the powers in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45653	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Vuksic, is very interesting in this Article 48, in particular paragraph 2 and paragraph 7, say the profit from the activity referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is a non-profit provider of media services, etc. It is necessary to invest in the benefit of the promotion and development of its own activities. If someone's nonprofit, how can they have a profit? Under the Budget Law, neutral resources for the programme must be returned to the budget. It's one thing if it's funded from the budget. And you have something very interesting in item 7. A non-profit provider of media services can deliver promotional messages for 3 minutes in one hour. Now watch how much we've been in this High House to say that we've been beating about how much advertising rights will have commercial and how much public television. Well, you know what three minutes of promotional messages on the portal that thousands of visitors are coming to. So, according to the Profit Tax Act, you have a clear definition if someone makes more than 50% of the income from an activity that is competitive on the market he is a taxpayer of profit tax and can no longer talk about a non-profit organisation at all. It's just his organizational form. And the other thing, what about VAT? If we said that those who can't write 25 thousand words, they need to be banged by 25% of the VAT, and here we leave the system as if it's none of our business. Well, this is the future of information in the Republic of Croatia, not just in the Republic of Croatia, but in the world. Therefore, this Article 48 points to one chaos and disorder. See which tails are dragged to HRT because of a clearly undefined provision whether the tax is taxed as regards value added tax or not. But look, then someone buys some hotels and gets on public TV, and the food chain will be very interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45655	Time. Thank you. We have a colleague Vuksic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45656	Mr. Shucker, I agree with you, you have also mentioned chaos, this evidence of a mess that the truth rules and in most European media, we certainly do not agree. The neoliberal capitalism cares that media that are not in the hands of private capital are as weak as possible. All this is done with HRT is precisely that intention to weaken HRT so that in a decade, the initiative may be launched in the EU, and the public media are the only ones who will send information to all of us citizens to the public. So we're going to be insecure views, and we're going to stop with a lot of newspapers, a lot of television if we don't have public television. That's why we need to watch public television. You said exactly Article 48 of the discussion that a non-profit medium can be profitable. He can deal with profits only then invest that profit in the development of the same media. However, we also have in stock companies taxing those who invest in the activity of their own or in the development of the law defined. So that's the chaos I was talking about, that's what she's all about. And the most important thing in this is how nonprofit can be made public immediately. This was never explained by the ministry or by anyone in the government that between non-profit and public, there is a sign of equality. Non-profits can also publish porn and declare themselves non-profit. What kind of public interest is that? So, the chaos in paper and in the heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45657	Thank you. Next replica, Ante Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said in your statement that HRT director Goran Radman should leave or resign immediately for not reporting his property. However, it does not matter to me whether he reported his property or whether the hotel was in Bohinj or not to be decided by the Commission on the prevention of conflicts of interest. What's important and what's very important is eating and who's paid that amount to Mr. Radman? How did he pay that amount? Did he pay for it in euro or kuna tolls and what's most important is eating where is that bill and eating real estate tax for that hotel? Minister Linic likes to paint and make statements these days, talks about his credibility, the principle of his legalism when it comes to fiscalising in green markets, but I also remind him that he should publicly publish and sell properties in Nazor, sell SDP properties and eat for that property and pay taxes on that property? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45659	Thank you, too. A fellow Vuksic answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45660	When I spoke to my dear colleague about the Director's resignation, I was referring to his words. He said if I get caught in a conflict of interest, I'll resign immediately. But at the time, he allegedly withdrew his political partners' address to the resignation. I believed it was a man who wasn't under political influence, but what we were saying when we talked about the law, a political commissioner who dictated to people how to write news and who to publish, and that's what the devil sees his partners who either worked or was their boss. Of course it actually sounds amazing that a director and a person with such a biography wonders whether it is necessary to report an asset abroad, and that property is now for our opportunities I have to laugh when they told me that I am a rich laborist really famous. I am certainly interested in all the answers to the questions you asked, and the whole procedure for which the SDP who sold the hotel says that some of its leaders have no idea, and I do not know about 600, 700 thousand euros. Well, it's not exactly money for a sandwich. I hope we get those answers in these next few days.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45661	Thank you. Next replica Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45662	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Vuksic, I listened very carefully to your debate. First of all, the fact that it's not good for the parent board to refuse this law, it rejects it for a reason. So it's not good for us to discuss a law assembly that the parent board has already repeatedly refused as a law that is not good. In my view, this is one of the laws that we should have passed by consensus because it is important, it is important primarily for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that media space here I hope we can agree on a forest of riots in which order should be introduced, and it has proved by the speedy adoption of the Law on HRT that this is completely the opposite of what has been announced and said that this law will be about the shift of HINA administration, and this is also happening with this Fund to encourage pluralism and diversity where local television and local radio stations are lost. And I heard from colleagues who are in local television about their problems about their financial losses but about the need for a local environment to have its own local television primarily for media information and for cultural reasons and all those reasons that make up one local television. She has a problem with staffing, she has to have a concession, she has to have programming guidelines, she has to get approval for work until these internet portals do. It could be two people, 70 kuna marks one laptop and that's it. I encourage that the fund should be extended for all and for these internet portals and non-profit production, but not in a way that damages anyone. If it was already going to help and expand media space, put order into it. Then the fund should have been strengthened with financial resources, given the opportunity for all those who wish to participate in the media space under the law to have the right to do so. But not in such a discriminatory way, not in such a way that one way that does not have the support of the parent board is primarily discriminated against for those who should therefore apply this Law. It is a seemingly technically small law, harmonising with the Law on Administrative Procedure and with the Lisbon Treaty and in fact hiding the danger of control of media space. That's where I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45663	Thank you. We have a colleague Vuksic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45664	My friend Salapic, so... very, very significantly, the Committee has rejected the Final Proposal of the Law and I am the first time, awaiting a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'll see if the parties in power are credible. Because they said that from now on, the committees will strengthen. The influence of the board is stronger. So I also invite all colleagues from the opposition, if not from Tuesday's post at 11 pm, is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure where the Deputy Prime Minister will be resolved to all,... We come to that committee and ask questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we'll probably hold a session there and the session will be in another hall. That this time they'll withdraw the law or they won't vote on the law. Because the board refused. So if the board has become the one where the debate is being held and whose opinions should be respected, that means that we have achieved our goal and that this coalition has started to work well. Because she probably won't break the word she gave last week. And that's the board getting to the point. So we're on the board saying no is not good. ... It's not worth it, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why I'm saying that in all of this is contradiction, great chaos and deception. As was the delusion of Article 134. Rules of Procedure when it's said that everything else is the same and that we're making a fuss. Except for one provision that says if the clubs don't agree. Now it's thrown out and most of it can be determined by the time of the debate. So we're going ten steps back again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45665	Thank you. And the last replica of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45666	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in your debate, you emphasized the importance of local media, of course, and the difficulties they face, but it is only a camel with what will be met if this Law is adopted. Several thousand jobs will also come into question, and many will, of course, end up at the Employment Service and deepen this number. But others also, of course, that the issue of human existence is very important, it is constantly being said that the goal is to reduce the number of unemployed. The second moment is also discrimination I would say one part of the listeners, let's say or viewers in local areas where many or radios exist part of life, everyday life. With these radio stations live, advertised via them, sang along with them while working in the field etc.. And in this way it will all be abolished, there will be no such possibility. And the other thing, of course, and there are quality shows like radio parliaments, a representative club where we MPs have to come into our midst and tell our voters we did it, like this, there's a lot of information that's not to listen to, we should make everything beautiful and say if it's all good and clap. And that way one window will also be closed, which should be permanently opened. And so that part of listening in rural areas will be discriminated against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45667	Thank you, too. We have a colleague Vuksic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45668	Dear counterpart Milinkovic, I just spoke to a colleague of the authorities these days who said that her local media has a very big impact on the population, it's just about Rijeka. And to be informed mostly from local media. And let's say the transfers, the comments from the city council's session are all on the local media and that it's actually decided by the local media. According to local media. If we threaten the survival of these local media we have endangered the public, the information the public needs to get will no longer be obtained on local media. And I think at this point you need the truth to say that at this point there is not a lot of non-profit media but the non-profit media that is growing after the adoption of this Law and it will certainly be the moment and from the same means may be paid by the number of users and you will get less credibility, you will get the meaning again of one chaos on the media market and we have not set the criteria by which money is to be obtained. I'm sure there are radio stations and local televisions that don't deserve the money they get. But I did so as I pointed out in the debate it is the problem of the Electronic Media Council to evaluate the programmes and to allocate money to the really implemented programmes and to the quality of the programme. And then both local radio and television stations will be much better when the Electronic Media Council is going to do its job more seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45669	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45670	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Deputy, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. When we talk about this law here, we see that in part there is a conflict between these independent associations of television. On the one hand and the Ministry, I'm not talking about portals here. In fact, these small televisions, these small radios, they kind of feel affected by this Law and they fight that these funds of this Pluralism Development Fund are distributed in an existing way. And as they spoke to others, so did I. Even here I have several amendments, and I have referred this Law on Electronic Media to the procedure. And so, among other things, they state that in principle they consider, quote, unacceptable to increase the number and type of users of the Media Development Fund, without prior increase in the funds of that fund. It is particularly unacceptable to insert into the users of this fund those categories that are not co-financed anywhere in Europe (programs on request and satellite programmes). Are we really, wondering, the richest country to co-finance what someone has voluntarily sought to produce and sell while at the same time jeopardizing the survival of those we have committed by law to produce a specific programme that performs a public function of local and regional radio and TV stations. Independent producers who are not media do not refer to them as legal provisions for the media and become users of the Media Fund. For them, this country has already provided for the funds to be allocated at the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, etc. Now there's a normal question, no one's talking about how many employees work on these little televisions or radios. Do it sometime around 3,000, 2000, okay. All the time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Local TV is working on about 500 permanent employees somewhere. It's the same as on RTL and New TV together, there's also about 500 people. In the last 15 days, 30 people on these independent TVs have been fired. When two of them get fired on one of the national televisions, then normally the whole country gets on their feet, and when you say on these little televisions 30 people lose their jobs to nobody, it points out clearly to their owners. The revenues of these small independent televisions, although for some it certainly cannot stand but well, they are called, is about 75 million kuna plus 15 million kuna from the Pluralism Facility. That's cca 90, maybe they get to 100 million kuna somehow. RTL and TV Nova come together around 640 million kuna means annually. When everyone in Croatia pays, that's what their competition on these small televisions says, it's 200 million kuna and then they themselves wonder where those other 400 million kunas go. On the other hand, we have HRT, which alone on the annual level, is revenueing somewhere around a billion and 500 million kuna. The fact is, they need to be admitted in a way that domestic topics are dominated by HRT by these very small television stations. True, and they should be just as honest sold, not to say surrender. How, how to pay them. Here I know that in Istria for the PR and for the media local self-government at the annual level spends about 7 million kunas. This is about four times more than for the fight against drugs, or it is significant, much more money to encourage pluralism than it stands out for the emergency health care that we have mainly in the tourist season because of the arrival of approximately as many tourists as we have the residents of any kind of problem. What, though, is wanted by this law? Co-financing of electronic publications i.e. portals, but also programs on request plus these satellite programs. Come on, I'll say... but then those 3% of the TV subscription should be increased to 3.5 or 4%. In fact, let the 30 million kuna then increase to 35 or 40 million kuna. So far, 15 million kunas of 30 million kuna were spent on local television, and 15 million kunas were spent on local ones. Now it is proposed that these 30 million kunas be divided into rather small television, portals plus independent producers plus satellite programs plus the application program. The fact is that in Europe, as I said, programs on demand and satellite programs are not funded, and we have independent producers on the other hand, as I quote, solved by the Law on Audio and Visual Activities. The portals are now funded with 3 million kunas and these independent televisions are not against, conditionally independent and these televisions are not against that 3% of those 30 million kunas are either funded or additionally 1 million kunas, however, it should also be recognised that these portals have received or reached the largest increase of as much as 600% or 500 thousand kuna. This year he'll have about 3 million kunas. These small televisions have the prescribed space, they have the prescribed emissions, they have the prescribed number of people, they have the prescribed information space that can't be sponsored even though I know that in some environments, and even in my simply pays that some people don't perform, especially when the campaign is due. Understandably, those who "finance" television will always be privileged, even if it was to be cynical of public money, and we will never avoid it, that is. It will never be neutralized entirely. But everything still needs to be done to make local and other media not turn into ownership of any capital, any policy. I've got a few amendments, so I'm just going to explain this second amendment of mys, or it's actually kind of a request from these independent televisions, that their ministries, the agencies should be 15%, and that's also a legal obligation, though without sanctions, and then they don't apply, when they're already giving out advertising funds, I'm also giving up for these small televisions. for the promotion on small televisions, i.e. those small radios. It is in some way the protection of small ones from large ones and it is the same in some way I can say or could be a protection against the universal monopoly of these large national houses. For example, when a Ministry of Defense advertises a competition for pilots and intends to single out 200 thousand kunas, then 15 thousand kunas or 30,000 kunas should be directed to some local media. Nothing's going on right now, or mostly nothing's going on. Why? Because there is no legal obligation. In fact, there is a legal obligation, but there is no sanctions, so no one can be forced into anything or committed. I told the Department of Defense, mentioned the pilots, I could mention I don't know about sailors, astronauts or anything else. It's all the same, I think you understand me. You see, that 15% is a lot bigger money than these 30 million kunas that we're discussing, and what money we're going to pollute about today. Amendment 4 would be to me if only it meant that the chairman of the board spoke about it a little earlier, where only during the time of the official campaign political parties could be promoted. The posters and the newspapers, we see no such obligation. The posters were glued to three, four, five months before the election, television, for example, washes, or in that scheme is 13 days because the last and last day you have silence. Those who are in power clearly take parallel pictures every day and during that period. It's clear to whom it suits. As a rule, those who finance public money and what I would say are media programs or content. However, how does the local media that depend on each lip also force a fair monitoring campaign? This year at my place down there, we all spent 1 million kuna together, one party spent 9 million kuna. And that money needs to be controlled. It's clear, I'll say it, but even the local media are selling by principle how much money the music is. We're not naive, we all come from our midst, we have a lot of political games in our feet and we know how the newspapers work and how the radio works and how these local TVs work. Let's also not say that these little televisions, say, or radios, are also not politicized. That the newspaper of the locals wasn't politicized. We deal mainly with HRT and rightly deal with it and with the director. Why? Because tax bonds through a TV subscription provide no less or less at an annual level somewhere a billion and 200 million kunas only through a TV subscription. Finally, the Croatian Parliament, to put it this way, is owned by the Croatian state of HRT. HRT is the most influential television. But I said, here in Istria 7 million kunas for portals and the media stand out and the PR agencies don't forget them, they're mostly from Zagreb, on an annual level. And for the fight against drugs, a million and a half kuna is provided, for the E.R. for that super standard there is a million and 600 thousand kuna, and for the media 7 million kuna. And then who's the media gonna follow? Clearly those who provide them with money. At least we all know that. It is the same in Zagreb as in Istria, it is the same in Slavonia as in Istria, it is the same in Dalmatia as in Istria, it is in Međimurje as in Istria. And let's not be naive and we just have to admit it to each other like this. Then another amendment here, 3% of the TV subscription goes to the fund, 3% of those 3% or millions of kunas go to portals now. I don't mind, though, and I think that provision should remain, but then let that amount of 3% be 3.5%. And those 3.5% would not then amount to 30 million kuna, but would amount to 35 million kuna. I know that for HRT 5 million kunas today is big money, but in this way we might be able to reconcile all these tensions that are now simply occurring on the route of small private TV stations, radio stations and these national programmes. Even though we've been dealing with HRT director all morning, which would have been far better if he hadn't gone from business to public service because one rule rules rule in business. In this business you can get to a hotel in Slovenia, I don't know how much money, but be assured that the Slovenians did not escape the property tax, I assure you, there had to pay for it where the property simply stands or lies, and in the public service there are some other rules. If you were to ask him now if he would accept this job, be assured that he would say that it was simply perhaps the biggest delusion in his career or in his life. One word to the end here you can see that I have defended all the time of independent television, independent rather than saving me so that I can't do anything down there when I come in, but one word is that I need a vis-a-vis encouraging that pluralism to try to help them as much as possible so that they and through an alleged fair performance to all help this pluralism in the country as a whole. And who are the founders of these cells or owners? When they are established, there may be an opportunity to answer you through a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45671	We have a few replicas. The first one came to Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45672	Dear Mr. Cain, dear colleague. I must say, I understand part of your debate, but it was this part that wasn't tied to this law. It's all about money. But it's not a matter of an esteemed colleague here just money that we're going to increase something from 3% to 3%. It's about the principle of public interest. No one needs to get public money unless it produces content of public interest. Point. Not everyone should be satisfied now, so increase the percentage to make up for anyone applying for funds. The problem here is with the public interest, that public money must produce content of public interest which binds itself to the domestic audiovisual industry which then employs people who pay taxes from which you and my colleague Cain get paid among other things. That's the point, not the public money given to someone who has no obligation to do public content, who doesn't lay down any accounts, who has no obligation to hire someone and has no obligation to produce adequate domestic audiovisual... It's a matter of principle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not just about the money you were talking about, and this part you were talking about about the law that part wasn't clear to me. So, are you up for the law? These amendments and additions to the Electronic Media Act are either not or are related to the amendments you have proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45673	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45674	Anything you say when it comes to public interest here, I can only subscribe, I just agree with everyone. But maybe we should also look at how this control is and how that public interest was met by, say, 2011. It was very much the control of this public space at the time, and it was very much excluded under the allegations of the opposition, and today the one who is ready to hit as hard and harder on the structures of this government will be more represented and the larger space will be obtained in one part and the state media. At least we can agree on that, Mr. Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45675	Thank you. Next replica Branko Hrg, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45676	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, you mentioned several times under the quotes of independent little television and we can say independent rather. So I'm going to say that you shouldn't put it under quotes, because in the end they're much more independent than what should be independent, which should be public television, and it's not, but it's a state. Therefore, these young ones are certainly much more independent and certainly much more realistically reported, no yellow ones, no bombistic news, no attention on non-essential subjects than they are about life. They're talking about living on the ground on a local level. We here with this law, these changes are actually hitting tradition especially at the local level. We're probably destroying what's been going on for 50 years. He's hitting on the little ones instead. If they hadn't been hit on and on TV by the little ones, they wouldn't have made so many remarks, they wouldn't have objected so much. Because today you're talking about profit and non-profit media, and I'm asking you which radios are, the profitable radios, especially small radios. What little TVs are profitable? Which is the profit they make when they're basically all lost. And you were talking about a TV subscription. You know, if we were to analyze it a little bit better, think about it, then we have to ask ourselves why we're actually paying for a TV subscription, whether we should pay for it because we're looking at something completely different. And when we add more executioners and ZAMP officers who practically forbid listening to more radios, then I ask myself whether they'll survive those little radios at all. Because in principle, people will stop listening to the radio because as soon as they listen to the radio, they already have an employee, a ZAMP employee, and they get fined. They're going to the weddings, let alone elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45677	Thank you. We have a colleague Cain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45678	And the truth is, Mr. Representative, you live in the Cross. I live in Istria. I don't know the practice of your media in your neighborhood but I know mine. I know how they finance themselves, and I know how they do the same thing. However, I agree with you that there is no profit in small radios, nor in these under quotes of small or private television. And that's why we have this Pluralism-enhancing fund. And that's why this 3% should be increased to 4% or 5% so that the next day of these little televisions and small radios can be as independent as possible. But let's not also argue, convince the public and ourselves that these little televisions or small radios or these little portals are not quite politicized. I'm not talking about the Cross again, but I'm talking about Istria. Let's not say that local newspapers financed by public, local money are also not politicized. Let's not just convince the public and ourselves that what I'm talking about isn't just that, because I've said too many games before at the pay phone that we know how this media space works from which each of us under quotes lives somehow. We agree, we need to talk about Croatian broadcasting, we need to discuss the subscription. I agree we should talk about ZAMP. The question of whether we're a good address but we need to talk about it because we're finally the owners and the billions and 200 million kuna citizens through the subscription are allotted to the functioning of national television. But I will once again say for the third time that for the financing of local media in Istria, portals, television, radio, written media stands out somewhere around 7 million kunas, for the fight against drugs million and 500 thousand kunas, for an emergency somewhere around a million 600 thousand kunas. -..that we heard but we need to repeat to the citizens... [[Intruder: Thank you fellow we've heard that already.]] can also affect small media. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45679	My colleague Caine's time has passed. We have the next line, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45680	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, you were always saying that you were protecting in your little independent media debate, and then you said that these small local media are functioning on principle as much music as they are. That doesn't make any sense to each other. And then now all the time you're talking about your little part where you live for Istrian County to spend 7 million kunas all the time to finance these and such media. And I remember this campaign that went by and it wasn't for a minute, every 10 minutes, it would be an hour and then the voice of Damir Caine would appear and say, "Citizens of Istria wake up, it's time." What were the results? The citizens obviously didn't wake up, Istria didn't turn red and the money was spent. But that's what I'm saying is one two months, and then in that 7 million then I guess your share of the money that was meant for the election campaign was invested to make you mayor because here we're talking about a whole other topic, and small and such needs to be protected but not in this way with an attempt to put them under the control of politics as it was done with this big public media like our HRT. You haven't said a word about HRT, I guess you can't say another word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45681	Thank you. We have a colleague Cain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45682	...heard this last one. Well, I'm pretty much protecting those little TVs. Maybe I'm the only representative they've ever put up with here, and I can even say not theirs because they're my amendments now, so on their behalf. Yeah, I'll repeat how much money there is. When I mention that 7 million kuna, not in that 7 million kuna was not a single kuna of my money. I'm talking about public money about that public money that local self-government and regional administration singles out and normal agencies, whether local, public enterprises etc. for polishing the characters and the works of their leaders. I'm glad you've been watching more television or I don't know any other radio station in Istria than on your Rab or in the Primorje-Gorski County where it went great. But I'll tell you now and again more for the Istrian public than for you how many times I've participated in these local televisions. Istria has two. On one in the first round, not once in the second round for 30 minutes. On the second round of the first 30 minutes, and they sponsored it themselves, maybe I shouldn't have said it, they gave it to me, 30 minutes, and in the second round, everything was reported without worry in the report, and in the second round another 30 minutes, and that's all my space there. On the other hand, others were present for days but some were present. But I assure you to start from nothing and adopt this result when you have everything against yourself is my dear MP not that little, you will see how it will be in the next election.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45683	Thank you. The next replica of the Sun Head. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45684	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain, you've messed up the laws a little bit, and you've mixed up the pots because no one's ever given you anything. Local TV and radio stations are required when the electoral promotion is to give space equal to all political parties or to all candidates. So no one gave you anything in one part. I'm just as interested in whether you'll vote for this bill unless the amendments are accepted. The amendments have been given to all the MPs and all the clubs, but perhaps that's why you're out of the way or in love with the ruling coalition, we've been delegated to bring them out here, and they might still pass because if someone by the opposition did, then they wouldn't have passed. I don't know equally whether you're aware that in the last month two radio stations have been shut down, and that's close to you in Pula and Umag, they don't work anymore, and regardless of this amount of money you're calling on that should ensure someone's survival or ensure independence, I don't think that's going to solve the problem. I also disagree with your findings when you said who better hit the authorities that would better go by the reverse situation, I'll just remind you, the government is hitting on us so personally the prime minister called a press conference to criticise HRT public television so that, after that, miracles would be replaced by all editors 3. The journal and the same when it is struck, for example, by a journalist or editor from HRT, when he was yelled at by the head of the Prime Minister's Office in the media. So we watch what we say the facts are one thing, and what we want is one thing or another. Public interest is what should be unobstructed than what should be an obligation for all those who would participate in the funds of the fund the same way as so far, i.e. the public content of the law had defined local TV and radio stations that used funds from the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45685	It's time, co-worker. Thank you. We have a response to the replica of colleague Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45686	Yes, it seems that this sense of responsibility for public interest only wakes up when someone is in opposition. When you were in power when you were not screaming, but replacing people on HRT or affecting other media behaviour, and finally remember the process that is being conducted around FIMI Media, then you were obviously not impressed by these lofty principles as you are now in opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45687	Thank you. My colleague Glavak announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45688	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since we do not have this refined, unscrupulous Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure, it is inadmissible that colleague Cain is referring to something insulting in this regard by fellow Members of the Assembly or fellow Members of the Assembly. Obviously, something hurt you, colleague Cain, because this is how you had to act hyperactively. So I ask you kindly to refrain from insulting yourself in the assembly. [[Agreement: My colleagues Glavak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45689	My colleague Glavak, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure... You know very well and appealed not to abuse in the future. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the last line, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45690	Dear colleague Cain, you said that perhaps Croatia should be deprived of another 0.5% and taken from the TV fee 3.5%. I thought you said you made one finding, and it's big money for Croatia's radio-television. Great money Croatia's broadcasting billion and a half kuna is operating annually, with a billion and a half kuna, it's a huge amount of money that it can't do business with. Croatia's broadcasting is constantly lending every month to its salaries at the moment. Croatian TV is actually called once state television, public television, you have not defined yourself. She can't be state television. She's not state television. She's not even a party TV. We have to admit that. She's the television of some powerful men. And public television is a private business. And that private business has been on the line for years, decades. Private businesses work there and make good money there. And that's what matters. All the time, praise the local media and then pour out trees and stones. Let's clear the first most important medium, this is Croatian Radio Television. When we clean up Croatia's radio, when we make it a public medium and not a private front, then the local media will certainly act differently. Because in Great Britain, the Royal Shakespeare Company is a theater measure. Thus Croatian broadcasting should be a benchmark for all other media because it should be the most important service. However, it has been turned into one bad commercial television without content, without the most important content and pubs. And for the taverns to be seen why they are inn, because they are ruled by untrustworthy men.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45691	Thank you. My colleague Cain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45692	I agree with you almost entirely. Croatian broadcasting must not be national, must not be private, must not be party to it, must not be housed on it. Finally, with this Croatian Radio Television for four or five years I guess the only representative in history since the constitution under the allegations of democratic parliament I have been running one dispute for damages because I was saying for this speaker four or four and a half years ago, five years ago that almost, almost, I have not said every one, but almost every show can buy. The dispute has grown to some 230 thousand kunas. How it ends I don't know. The first-degree verdicts are in my favor, as it will be second-degree, the final verdict we will see. But there is one more thing I want to say, that Croatian Radio Television has about a billion and 500 million kuna at the annual level of TV subscription makes a billion and 200 million kunas. However, 5 million kuna is also big money for Croatian broadcasting such as big money for any other institution in the Republic of Croatia. I agree, or I'll add, that within this Croatian radiotelevision, you're a permanent one, I don't know what to say within the editorial wars that last from the elections to the elections. After the election, at least for a moment under quotes, we calm down, but there these factionic struggles are simply unstoppable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45693	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Boris Blažekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45694	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. The area of electronic technology is a specific area of electronic media, which is available to the public, the most developed area of human activity in the last 50 years. The proposed amendments to the Law on Electronic Media are simply advanced in one part. They modernise thinking, attitudes, views and team and legal actions in relation to modern electronic media. Article 21 Amendments and additions of the Law are almost entirely satisfying the current views as well as the need for the active and positive action of all actors in electronic media. The law protects universal values, cultures, languages, specialities and diversity, minority groups, and various interests of many civil society participants. Of all the proposed amendments and additions to me in the HNS, they would further absorb only some aspects of the law in question. First, something needs to be said about local and regional television and stations in the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that all televisions in Croatia for Croatia, i.e. its citizens, are important both those with national concessions and those with local concessions. Today's television is still absolutely the main and most important source of information for portable, cultural, scientific-popular, educational, entertainment programmes. This is consumed by all citizens and citizens regardless of the degree of education, faith, sex, birth or age. Just as any other activity does not have only the income side and TV production activity has a much wider role than making a profit. But when we think about making profits, it's about activities of general importance such as the media, in this case TV production, the responsibility of such companies, or those companies, is incomparably greater than various other activities. Today's media are also or even more than a policy responsible for the ultimate creation of the social atmosphere. The media is responsible for the transfer of elemental information to categorization, qualification and evaluation of the value of almost all events in the community. The selection, positioning and evaluation of media directly influences attitudes, opinions and awareness of events. Because of the vast amount of information, because of the fast way of life, because of the overload of their own work and personal problems today, the average reader, listener or viewer simply leaves to the media to form his opinion and views on events and phenomena in society, especially in politics. For example, if Branimir... writes that Zagreb Philharmonic is a fulala, I trust him and don't question him anymore. It's just saying that today's media responsibility is bigger than ever, and it seems to me that the media in Croatia is worse today than ever, but it's my personal attitude, the attitude of my friends and people I'm surrounded by and with whom I'm hanging out, and it's not the topic of discussion right now. All the media in Croatia except HRT are private and they are all naturally turned to profit, and many of the survivals do not choose, or very often choose the public incentive of the lowest passions to raise circulation, obedience or ratings, or to survive on the market at all, and in such conditions some media have legal advantages. Press and media pornography can be fought in various ways, but it is important that the basic operating conditions of all media are the same. It is not good that TV stations with national concessions are more favourable to business than the media at regional or local level. It is necessary to openly support the work of TV stations at regional and local level because they are important, because they are closest to their citizens' problems, because they understand the problems of local communities and citizens in them best. It's generally public rhetorical, but as far as basic operating conditions are concerned... you don't need the same ones and becomes favored and especially favored, and even less put in a more unfavourable position than so-called. major televisions, which are objectively, in any case, and therefore is a particularly reasonable article 33. The law on electronic media where public institutions and businesses are bound to advertise at local TV stations with 15% of the promotion budget. This at least eases the difference... the potential of TV stations with national and regional, or local concessions. It is a pity that no sanctions are imposed on public institutions and companies which do not comply with that article. Therefore, we in the CNS believe that no business entity should put any activity in a more unfair position against other business entities of the same activity, not even among the media. In fact, those who, in the very nature of things, did not need to put this in a more equal position with positive state or local state measures. The second thing that needs to be highlighted by us, with the amendments and additions to the Electronic Media Act, is that the full openness to trade societies and individuals and other members of the European Union, as well as compliance with the rules for the consumption of electronic media with the European Union, the application that hides the transfer of technology and knowledge in itself, but also healthy competition. Croatia must be open to economic operators of the European Union and also to electronic media. The third thing that passes from this law and which should be highlighted even though it is clear to everyone, but that is why it is especially necessary to apostrophe, is a more modern view of the electronic media. Today, there is no human activity that does not use electronic computer technology. Electronic media is certainly an area that develops at an unprecedented rate. Just over 20 years have passed since the actual and general use of personal computers in Croatia. The Internet has been presented practically the other day, and the most extensive social network Facebook records just over 5 years of existence and acclamation use in our country. Internet communication, e-mail is the basic and almost the only type of written communication. We have made a number of amendments in the Parliament where in certain laws we determine electronic records and archivals, and with the last amendment of the Rules of Procedure, we have made a rational decision that all documents of the laws, MPs receive by electronic means. We're on the verge of an official electronic signature and a real electronic digital age. On the Internet we can track various cultural events, concerts, numerous art exhibitions, photographs, purchase goods and services via the Internet, solve daily administrative personal problems via the Internet, pay bills. I have to admit, I still remember the lines in the SDK to pay the bills alive. Today, life as a whole is impossible without electronic communications and the help of computer technology. Electronic media, commercial and non-commercial are slowly taking over the main role in rapid information on daily events. Some of Croatia's best press pens have crossed from daily and weekly newspapers and write for significant so-called "species". new portals. Some of our top intellectuals write articles, have their columns on various portals. Many also write their blogs. Anyone who wants an opportunity to write and publish whatever they want, express their views, opinions, fears, imaginations, ideas. Many are objective and unobstructive critics of our daily life. We bear witness and read from ground floor prosaclysms to top scientific, political and social considerations... comments. The most spiritual shows, cartoons, photo montages, movies, videos are on the Internet and all its other derivatives. The Internet provides absolutely random communication possibilities. The revolution... springs are organized and mobilized via the Internet. It is therefore good that this proposal is specifically addressed by non-profit and non-profit electronic publications, producers of non-profit audiovisual and radio programmes. We believe in HNS that this law will contribute to order and development in hyperproduction, both commercial and non-profit electronic media, and to the benefit of end consumers, citizens and citizens, and for the development and benefit of the common society. We have also proposed in HNS an amendment to Article 28, which we hope the applicant will accept and the HNS Club will support the amendment and addition of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45695	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first is Jasen Mesic. Here's my colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45696	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague, I think the amendment has already been accepted. I had no doubt he wouldn't be accepted. But it's you in the HNS who now gave us a nice speech about the importance of the Internet and the possibility of electronic communications. And tell me one provision in those 20 and some amended articles guaranteeing the preservation of culture and language. Why don't you tell me one provision of your colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45697	Thank you. And the next replica is Sunny Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45698	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Blazekovic, at one point, it seemed to me that you said that by acclaiming we actually accepted the use of the computer. I don't really remember that kind of acclaim, and I wasn't sure if you were talking about the Law on Electronic Media or Electronic Telecommunications. But aside from all that. The amendment will be accepted. It was already in the government session yesterday and it was so published. I'm surprised you don't have that information, and there's only one little detail about how much you're praising this law. I'll just tell you all of you know, or all the MPs know what the information program means. However, according to the new ones, it will be called current events programs, so I guess we will have a special rarity in Europe and so we will have editors who will be editor of the current events program. Well, really, I don't think we have to brag so much about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45699	Thank you, too. We don't have an answer. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Sunčana Glavak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45700	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal for a law on electronic media that is ahead of us instead of editing the media sector, rather than the pompous announced Media Strategy, unfortunately brings an article that has ignored exactly those whose activity this law is and which is public in its first reading. We are witnessing universal trivilisation, this time in the media sector, demeaning our memory because I will remind you of the main strategic media ministry of culture without offending anyone but it is also being called Mr. Zivkovic announced the draft of the overall media strategy before summer only unfortunately did he not say what year it would be this summer. It obviously won't be this year. The ministry has come from statements that media reform is exactly the most important reform it is under, and imagine just what it is with those reforms that are not so important. I'm expressing great concern that's yet to happen in other segments of the Ministry of Culture. We're witnessing what's happened so far. I'll just remind you of the visible media results. The adoption of the Law on Croatian Radio Television. Then we spoke at the Croatian Democratic Community club that unfortunately it would be Kukuriku TV and that the principal director would be the master of life and death. We didn't know then, though, that he was the headmaster and a forgetful person, so he doesn't know he has to report the property, that he doesn't know if he's a state official, so he forgets to report the hotel as well. We gave him 10 million kunas he could dispose of without asking the Supervisory Board. A man took a new loan less than a month ago, so he might forget to pay for it. You never know that. But when we talk about money equally, then we can ask if the SDP may have forgotten to pay the real estate tax that SDP and SKH followers bought, Mr. Radman. Maybe we'll get an answer to that question. When we talk about media offices, or the laws of the Ministry of Culture, we also had an eclectic example in HINA when the Administrative Council was replaced, the director was replaced without saying what happened to the recently passed VAT law, not in the electronic media sector, but in some printed media. I will remind you equally that the debate with the interested public was held only after we had warned about it from the Croatian Democratic Community club when the first reading was already in the Parliament. So we also warned at the plenary session, and several times on committees. Products from the Ministry of Culture are constantly missing from us, and instead of reading what the interested public in good faith and intent sees as shortcomings and to repair them to another reading, the public is brought into the realm of the underworld which actually understands nothing the promoter wants to say to them. None of the proposals in the public debate were adopted, and in addition, the final proposal for a law did not receive support from the parent board. And once again, colleagues and colleagues I appeal to you to propose all together that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. Among the two readings, no proposals were adopted for daily life and the survival of television stations. It was adopted only in the transitional and final provisions, to allocate 3% and million kuna for the third sector for 2013 regardless of the already provided budgetary resources. Otherwise, the Council for Electronic Media has shared funds for 2013 without respecting the legal obligation and for independent productions, but is still pushing them into the fund. In the last month when we talk about local media, two TV stations TV Plus and City TV Zadar and three radio stations have been shut down. I already mentioned two of them are Pula, Umag and Virovitica. 60 people in the media sector went back to the stock market. In the Ministry of Culture there seems to be no personnel potential for timely and quality solutions, imagination about some distant visions, Danish models and the performances of the ministry's representatives, by the way, everyone is employed in this term despite the ban on employment, assures us that they do not read basic knowledge and information. I'll just remind them or ask them to take a closer look, the data exists at the Ministry of Culture, and it's inadmissible to call for some data to be missing. If their, often unreal and idealistic proposals are made, I must ever express my concern that there may be no one to be implemented for because in the meantime, the existing publishers will disappear and the employees will go away as well as these 60 from before on the burden of Minister Mrsic. Despite the deadlines in public debates, the Ministry of Culture is not responding, later proposing something new and losing additional months, for example TV becomes still paying twice the same right, while some are being shut down in the meantime. The kid just a reminder, they say it's not good to talk a lot about numbers. TV stations employ 2,000 people in a permanent employment relationship. Their average salary is 3 500 kuna. By law, the required obligations, which should not be sponsored so far from the fund, have been covered by around 30%, and this proposal will also be reduced due to new users to the same amount of funds. Our law allows the fund to be charged with 3% of the fee or from other sources. If new users are introduced, the funds should be increased at the same time. For example, Slovenia did so when it introduced portals into the fund, which we do in a way. An analysis that would explain the reasons for selective or discriminatory access to the Pluralism Fund because this allows only so-called. non-profit electronic publications and producers of non-profit programmes access the funds of the fund while so-called This does not allow the profit sector to do so. We're all behind this. It should be noted, and we also warned this when we first read, that by entering the EU, so we have already done this, consent for the programme of allocations from the European Commission's Pluralism Fund. The existing allocation system has been reported and is considered to be supported. But what I'm curious about is what's going to happen to the support that's being found? Supports go through a rather complicated and long-term process of obtaining consent from the European Commission. If something changes now, the whole process starts over or we'll hear from the promoter how it's finally arranged. Maybe we'll get an answer to that question. Similarly, the Competition Protection Agency did not show very well about this, and it is clear that many working in the government have slept through the process of EU accession negotiations and have not made an effort to inform of the commitments undertaken on how to consult Brussels. Unfortunately, the ministry is not dealing with real problems that have been discussed with publishers two years ago but is in some way jeopardising the entire system to satisfy the particular interests of the selected group of future fund users, and their number is absolutely uncertain. We have before us a law which has not answered any of the real questions as if it were not a matter of the ministry, but imposes one model that is contrary to everything the Ministry of Culture does otherwise through other forms of support, here above all I mean the support of the book and publishing at the Ministry of Culture. In fact, about 90% of subsidies go to entrepreneurs and that's the case with small publishers, and in 2009, support for electronic publications was introduced, and then I have to say there was no discrimination that made it impossible to report to those registered as d.o.o. So in 2013, we are not even a year until the start of the new Creative Europe of the EU programme, which promotes entrepreneurship in culture, a law that allows funding according to the criteria of who is founded. For example, I'll remind you of the famous ZAREZ d.o.o. So I wonder if that's why he's commercial, does he have public content or not? My colleague Blažekovic can continue to talk about ZAREZ if you want to, as we have already discussed the conflict of interest, we could go back to that. The Ministry of Culture has, among other things, received a negative opinion from the HUP, which equally speaks about discrimination, and we can say that this proposal is not really entrepreneurship-stimulated in all its segments, or if you want to discriminate. We are asking another question whether it is possible that, at a time when the whole of Europe is turning to fostering creative industries, the Ministry of Culture decides in this way to subsidise only a part of the creative sector, i.e. some excluding it, and I guess not creative enough for such forms of support. It is necessary to define more clearly the concept of an electronic publication, which is what we have heard today, so in Article 2(1), because this formulation allows for different interpretations, unfortunately. The terms of a non-profit electronic publication and a producer of a non-profit audiovisual radio programme are then not defined from the draft amendments to the law as it is now not possible to give a clear assessment of the impact of the amendments to this law. This applies in particular to this second term which, given the name, is alluded to in order to be able to exist a producer of the programme which manufactures both profit and non-profit programmes. So that dilemma we tried several times to clarify, but we still don't have an answer, at least not some rational answer. For example, for example, commercial television with a national concession, or one of the producers owned by it, may be able to produce a non-profit, or non-profit programme and equally apply to the Fund for pluralism. It is not also clear why the provision of Article 48 which defines the obligations of non-profit programmes in relation to its own production is excluded. Article 48 below negatively affects the movement of goods and services as it limits the status of a non-profit provider of a media service to be determined in the award of a concession, i.e. a permit and cannot be changed during the duration of the concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45701	I'm asking you to allow my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45702	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Mesic, please. Thank you very much. Article 64 shall discriminate against the profitable producers of the radio and TV programme referred to in Article 19.So the services at the request of colleagues have talked about it, we are not rich enough to finance such a thing. It is necessary to define at least the initial allocation ratios between radio and television and other fund participants in the applicable Electronic Media Act. I remind only this relationship is 50-50 between radio and television, and the proposed solution leaves that obligation to the Electronic Media Agency. We can only imagine that in the coming year the grant amount will be able to amount to up to 80,000 euros a year in 2014.We heard this in the introduction and from the promoters will only be defined by the regulation that you are looking after for an independent regulator still has to approve the Ministry of Culture and that is how much independence when we talk about it. Since there are no analyses or criteria on which it would be decided, it is obvious that in this way this hot potato decision-making relationship is not only professional but if you want a political strategic issue with which no one is likely to be satisfied, the Agency for Electronic Media, which will again be controlled by the competent ministry. Finally, I would like to point out that the applicant did not agree with the basic concepts in the proposed law, so who in Article 2 lists electronic publications, and Article 48 lists non-profit providers of electronic publications, so I believe that this unconsistent monitoring of the concept in the law will cause a problem in the application of this law sooner or later. Once again on behalf of the HDZ Club, I appeal that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. The law has not received any support from the parent board and I appeal equally to the ministry to start communicating with the public. Do not ignore the public, public debates and show at least a little respect for this House of Commons. We didn't get an answer to any of the questions, at least not a direct answer, and unfortunately maybe that's because you still don't know how to answer us, that would really be a tragedy. In the previous term, we achieved a high level of tolerance, we opened public debates, we passed media laws in the regular procedure of consensus. This time the only consensus that can be to pull this law out of the process. I regret that we have managed to reverse all this, but more than anything, I am expressing concern because your indeterminateness, wandering and fulfilling the particular interests of the narrow media group directly endangers jobs and the existence of people working in electronic media. 24 TV and 155 radio concessionaries operate in the Republic of Croatia, or until today’s debate is somewhat less than that because some are unfortunately shut down. The HDZ Club will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45703	Thank you, colleague. We have two replicas first reported by Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45704	Your Honor, Vice President. So your colleagues of the Sun are democratically entitled as opposition and opposition to criticise and no one will take that right away from you. In your debate, you mostly looked back at HRT, most of it. Of course, problems on HRT and all those local media that have problems didn't arise yesterday or the day before yesterday, these problems last a few years or let's say ten years. They exist and last. I'll be free to mention a local media that I was personally connected to because I've been working on it for a while, and that's the Vinkovaca TV that, let's face it, has an epithet of party television and is now failing. So you mentioned that there are 24 TV media outlets in Croatia, probably by the end of the year there will be fewer, one of them will be shut down but the question is how will the pre-fashion procedure be Winkovačka TV. ... when you refer to HRT, you did not mention that during the period when the problems occurred, and I say these problems last a few dozen years on HRT, there were journalists who financed themselves, so their salaries were even higher than the salaries of Croatian MPs, so that's the public money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45705	Thank you. We have your colleague Glavak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45706	Thank you very much. My fellow Roman, you're right, and today their wages are, not all of them, greater than the MPs of Parliament. You're right. I agree with you. I can agree with you and that for now, it is our democratic right to speak. How did you begin to abolish all possible or amendments to the Rules of Procedure who knew if we would be able to speak? As we speak, until you forbid us. As far as HRT is concerned, only a small part of you didn't listen closely until the end, perhaps it was too long a debate in the first part, and I looked back at HRT, and then I talked about what was unspeakable in the law. If you're unemotional about Vinkovačka TV, I'm emotionally connected to Varazdin TV. And they have problems, they have tremendous pressures, and do I have to talk about what kind of environment they're working in? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45707	Next line, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45708	He's a respected vice president. Is a colleague Glavak it seems that we have the only right to speak without any more transmission on the 2nd channel of HRT, and when we talk about a European arrest warrant here, then at 6 p.m. the 4th channel shows a rerun of "Good Morning Croatia", Mrs. Glavak, to re-establish the material from that morning. Is it not public interest for the Croatian public to hear a debate on the European arrest warrant, when the whole of Europe, as you mentioned, is talking about a new one, is the only EU programme that has been growing in the next seven years, increasing. The programme of culture and media is Fusiond. It's all based on that part of the culture that tends to be entrepreneurially active to further support. No one, but no one thought of going with subsidizing something that only has the main argument that it's non-profit. It has never occurred to anyone throughout the European Union. Well, this is mid-20th-century politics. It is that culture that can earn for itself and obtain its own incomes that is more independent, stronger, stronger, has a greater value. It's the same with all the parts. That's right with the restoration of heritage. One of the main criteria first invests in restoring what has already been given a new purpose. Only then does he have what he doesn't have. That's the way it is with this program. Well, that's exactly it, that's the catch. And everyone understands that. These are stories of the Cold War. Who's gonna take it? In 2014, they may be prescribed to receive 10 million non-profit media. So what do we do? We all want to open non-profit portals And write blogs and get incentives. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] There will be a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45709	Thank you, fellow Mesic. We have an answer. We have a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45710	Thank you very much, dear colleague Mesic. You're absolutely right. You mentioned the fourth programme, of course, it might be more useful to broadcast on the fourth programme, for example, emissions intended for emigration rather than emissions... They're cutting it off. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We didn't say anything today. But a fellow Roman will again say that we only refer to Croatia's radio television, but what you'll still be doing is they're the ones with a national concession of corn TV. So several shows on Croatian Radio have been canceled, the show on Croatian Radio has been canceled and we haven't said anything about it. We just keep it quiet and we don't want to make it clear whether the editors were unsuitable or waiting for the prime minister to call a press conference so that he can make it public in that way, or just talk about it in the towers, just some shows dodiate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45711	Thank you, too. Now, on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS Mrs Kosor, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd say at first I'd be brief, but we'll see it's usually when someone announces it's going to be very short, then extend it beyond all limits. So I would start again with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says that in Croatia it is in the power of the tridivision of the authorities, so to legislative, executive and court. But practice and then the best politicians see it when they're in power, so when they're in opposition, then they're always different from the public media. So it is my opinion that the fourth power is in force and that is the Croatian media. Very influential, they penetrate all the pores, and as far as politics are concerned, they can certainly help, and they can certainly help, in order to make sure that some relevant information either gets to the citizens or does not reach the citizens. And certainly, then, every discussion in the media in the Croatian Parliament is extremely important. I appeal that it be extremely serious, that it be free of any landings, without plantings, to be realistic and to talk about the Croatian moment now. I agree on this Bill's proposal, amending the law, all media should have equal access to public money, but according to equal criteria, uniform, agreed precisely, articulated. And it's a notorious thing I think there's no dispute about. Of course we couldn't or should have passed laws that would generate new problems. That is why I am returning to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which clearly states how the Government is elected, to whom the Government corresponds. The government is responding to the Croatian Parliament. This is where it's chosen. Therefore, according to both the interpretation of the old Rules of Procedure and the interpretation of the new Rules of Procedure, however for me as a lawyer, there is only one interpretation. If the parent board does not often, if the parent committee votes untrust, I would tell some law, therefore, votes against the law regardless of which majority it was voted against, then the doubts about us representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament should not be. Such a law should not, unfortunately, be voted on. Because if we want to strengthen and my opinion is also in line with the trend in the European Union, in the European Parliament, if we want to strengthen the Board's institution in the Croatian Parliament, so through this, of course, the Croatian Parliament, too, then the Committee's opinion should be respected and the Committee's opinion should be respected. The Committee's opinion should be followed, and if the Committee, and I repeat, try to remember it doesn't happen so often, if the Committee says no to any law, in particular the amendments and amendments to the law, then it must be the only guide for us. Whether they belong to the ruling coalition or to the opposition. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, we will strengthen the integrity of this House and the committee in which the debate should be both more content and deeper and more comprehensive. Finally, the opinion of the Committee should always be relevant in the decision-making process. So that's what I could say about these changes and additions, so for me, there's no dilemma. But as it comes to electronic media and how the situation on Croatian TV is happening today and how we are witnessing incredible events in recent months since the editors' shift, the exchange of journalists, the selection of new editors, the resignations, and here we are going to go to sickbay yesterday as much as we can read about the events at the moment. I think we need to talk, and it's good to talk about Croatian broadcasting. It is the only large medium owned by the Republic of Croatia. So he belongs to all citizens and citizens. And of course it exists legally and according to this law but according to both the past and the past obligations of the HRT, I would say, ultimately, to settle the bill. I remember the incredible events when we were trying to get the government's restructuring program in the past term, returning it several times, discussing the payment of the debt. It's some topic we've completely forgotten. So they charged 38 million kuna and 78 on payment, for 220 million kunas the HRT complained, I haven't been following lately as it ended. So we need to discuss HRT here because it is a public service for which there must also be public and very clear standards in operation. Public television, HRT I repeat, which is owned by the Republic of Croatia must promote the rule of law, so the highest and most important values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It must also through its programme, through its emissions, particularly informatively protect the rule of law, promote the rule of law and certainly the values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and one of these is certain that we are all equal before the law. Well then all the people who run the HRT are equal before the law or before the laws, and even in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, so if it is then on HRT where, of course, a lot of arguments is questioned by the property of each of us MPs and MPs, members of the Government, then it must be clear as day and that doubt must not be so clear criteria and in interpreting the laws of the Republic of Croatia must be the same. And there is no doubt that the question that can and must interest the public is not only the leader who runs the house but certainly because we have heard big taxpayers' money, the big money of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia supports the functioning of that house. It is important, and always this is a zero point in the perception of both the Government and the perception of the Croatian Parliament, in the perception of institutions, and in the perception of television, or radiotelevision, which is owned by the Republic of Croatia, and you are credible when you apply the same criteria to others as you do to yourself. So HRT, ladies and gentlemen, can't and can't and can't agree to be a house that will eventually produce affairs. Its function or function is that the affairs in Croatian society reveal, investigate and condemn them with a zero tolerance for which, at least a few years ago, we firmly defined ourselves. So in conclusion, because I think you should say at this point exactly about the situation in that house also a few words, ultimately equal criteria, credibility and through the amendment of the law and, of course, this law applies to that house and to all other houses. Returning credibility in order to continue as a member of the European Union to strengthen and build a legal state and represent the rule of law as one of the fundamental principles in the functioning of the country, the 28th member of the European Union. Of course, according to the board's decision, my club will not support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45713	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45714	Dear colleagues Kosor, I fully agree with your findings that we have all repeated, all media should have equal access to public money and that public money can be shared under the same criteria. That's absolutely correct. I also agree with the conclusion that if the parent board rejects the law of doubt for MPs in the Croatian Parliament, it should not be. The law should withdraw from the procedure, work and come as I suggested, once we discuss the media strategy, it makes sense to change the laws concerning the media. Of course, if we do so, the Committee's institution will strengthen, not only will it strengthen the Board's institution, it will also strengthen the reputation of parliamentary representatives and the reputation of the Parliament itself, because once some opinion of a committee, not any committee, of the parent board, will respect this House. Because what committees do if their opinions aren't about plenary sessions? I mean, we have no purpose, so let's cut the boards. If the parliamentary majority accepts the opinion of the board, which is negative, it will prove its consistency and will also strengthen its position. The citizens will understand that something is still moving ahead and that what we are saying all the time is that we are proving the act of democracy that should rule in the Parliament. And just one note, all the political furniture ruled the HRT, some less successful, some more successful, mostly for each shift of government, you know that yourself, the editors on HRT were changing, which is not good and should be interrupted. We said let's do it now on TV, but we didn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45715	Thank you. We have an answer. Comrade Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45716	Thank you very much. Our colleague Vuksic, as if here we are from the debate in the debate, continuing a common topic that is good to open, which is the status, position and perception of MPs, or Parliament in Croatian society, which is bad, the representatives are thought ill, mostly bad. The grades the Parliament gets repeat once again in all the polls are mostly always the worst, so we have to try to fix it. So this is one of the options. If representatives on a committee, and I repeat this, really rarely decide that some laws or amendments to the law are not good, that they must go to work, then the entire plenary session should be respected. It's one of those little steps for humanity, but it can be great for us too. I repeat, the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of both the former and the former is actually on the trail. My argument is more, for example, if for some law proposed by someone in the opposition order of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that a negative opinion would not be accepted in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, if the Government that corresponds to the Parliament, which corresponds to the MPs, that negative opinion of a law will not be passed. Now, if we reverse the situation, the thing is quite simple. And as for trying to master some media, it's always so, of course, and then we always hear the opposition criticize it. And by ruling, they often think that picture was supposed to be much better and even better and that it had to be the best. That's right. But we here are the ones who need to decide what legislative framework it will be to gradually change things, but surely change them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45717	Thank you. We have the next line, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45718	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Kosor, I agree with your views that the committee's opinion should be relevant in deciding that this strengthens the integrity and the Parliament and that it can also fix that negative picture of what you've just said. But reality is quite different. You were talking about the incredible events of the editor's shift. Last week, however, we had an incredible event of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, where it is said on this amendment that it must be a mandatory opinion of the Committee that the law could come to the plenary session, the Proposer directly said that it is not important to have the opinion of the Committee, that it is more democratic when we are all discussing a particular topic. Therefore, we are going exactly backwards and the role of the committee not only on the issues of these laws and relations to say under the quotes of only Croatian laws but also on these laws and European affairs simply the parent committees are no longer asking questions. And it is possible that the laws and other proposals of the law come to a plenary session without the committees discussing them at all. Therefore, we are going backwards and that is the reality that we must face because it is simply by this reduction and democracy and will further destroy the dignity of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45719	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45720	Yeah, I agree. I said in the debate at the speaker that this is contrary to the trend in the EU, i.e. the European Parliament, where it aims to strengthen the impact of the committee and their role. But if that's the case, then I suggest we put an end to the decision on the suspension of the board. Why would I suggest that? The same way that we would facilitate the obligations of the state budget, because we know that the board presidents, the vice-presidents of the board, have certainly a higher salary and higher salaries than the ordinary, so-called. ordinary MPs. Therefore, we reduce the funds for the salaries that the Croatian Parliament will receive in total so that if we cancel the boards, if they are not important, we cancel them and reduce the cost of the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45721	Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of the HDSSB club Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45722	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here we are at the beginning of the HDSSB club, unfortunately, and this is one of the laws that we are passing in one way that laws in the Croatian Parliament should not be passed. First of all, this area of electronic media, the issue of funding, the question of public money and public interest, and I think it would be in the spirit of democracy that we have passed such an important law by consensus. But lately, we seem to be getting closer and closer to the EU. Somehow, this level of communication in the Assembly has shrunk or gone in a completely wrong direction. It is not a good message, certainly, and it is not a good message that the law I repeat will not have received, so support on the parent board comes to the plenary session and that, therefore, one opinion of the parent body in one that should at least be constructive debate is not respected. It is not good and it is not a good message here from the Croatian Parliament to the Croatian public above all. We also cannot support this Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media for several reasons at the HDSSB club. The first is this reason, therefore, we do not support that if we advocated and advocated strengthening the role of the Croatian Parliament and the parent committees, the board in the Croatian Parliament said that we would do so by amending the Rules of Procedure. We see in the first step that this is not because we do not respect the board's opinion. All this together so I don't repeat myself, all the same things that my colleagues used to say isn't good, and the Croatian Parliament is sending us the wrong message. What is the public interest, how to assess the public interest in this media area in electronic media matters, is one very complex question and I find it difficult to answer that because one level of funding of public money towards public interest at least as far as these electronic media are concerned, it is therefore also visible from this bill and in these amendments and additions above all unclear criteria. The criteria for all should be equal and criteria should be given to everyone in the media space in this issue of electronic media equal space. The fact is that if you are already going to go into this Fund to encourage pluralism and the diversity of electronic media that these funds of the fund if they are going to increase to these internet portals, so if we are going to go into diversity and if an opportunity is given to both independent producers and productions can report to the tender and use the funds of this fund then you should definitely provide the funds in that fund because without sufficient resources are taken to those who can't withdraw enough from that fund already. And we saw today in the debates, we heard that this is about 24 local television houses and about 150 radio stations that, according to this final text of the law, would be damaged in this part of funding from the fund, which is about 30 million kuna. What is happening and what is going to happen to local television and local radio houses will show the time ahead because it is obvious that the law has come into debate that it will vote as such. We should have listened and tried in some ways to respect the opinion of representatives of local radio and television associations because those amendments, those comments that we received by all MPs and club representatives certainly have a foothold that should be accepted in this law. It is not the same to set up local television and local radio stations, it is not the same to get concessions for local television and local radio, it is not the same to write programming guidelines, get a license for the program, have professional personnel from that part of the web portal where it can be founded by two adult persons 70 kn public notes, one laptop and you have an internet portal. So, we are in favour of allowing that part of the non-profit media and independent productions to enter fund financing in a certain way, but then we need to follow examples to look up to other European countries where we will increase the financial resources in that fund or, therefore, come up with a legal new fund for that category of non-profit media. Or, therefore, we will ensure that these criteria are equal for all but respecting differences in legal obligations and opportunities when they are established. So it's not the same to set up a television local house and a web portal like this. The truth is that there should be order and the work of these TVs and radios at local levels, primarily redefine the role of these media in election campaigns and promotions. Well, here we are also witnessing in this latest campaign for local elections that some television houses, no matter what kind of signs they had in public opinion, have actually carried out a political violence through their programme. It happened here in my county that you have promotional messages on a local television where you can't even see who the client is, whether there's a political party behind it, whether an independent list or an independent candidate, but you just have a story about something, and nobody signs it. So that should be banned. This has been banned by the State Election Commission, but this should not happen. Local televisions are important and important and should have their place in financing the Ministry of Culture. We are also aware that this public interest and public money as far as local media is concerned is not only about public money but also about private money, and then it comes to the fact that journalists in the media who also have a hard time finding a job in the face of the crisis should do their job independently, but unfortunately because they are paid by their private-capital owners sometimes behave very unprofessionally. In a certain way, the independence of a professional journalist has been reduced to the least possible. And that's the same example, and we don't need to close our eyes to those problems. So, there's order to be introduced into the law, so if something is independent, if it's about independent media, it's about television, radio or portal, then it really should be. If the money financed from the public register is then it is necessary to be able to assess what is the public interest. And that order should be introduced into the Media Act, that's for sure what's going to happen and what's going to happen in front of us. As far as this law is concerned, it is in one section of the technical law when it comes to harmonising the Law on Electronic Media with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Administrative Disputes and the Criminal Law with compliance with the provisions of the Lisbon Treaty that is something that belongs to the technique of the law and that is to be accepted. But what about the expansion of the ability to report to the Pluralism Development Fund is something which is therefore the key to this law, and if we are going to do so then we need to ensure that everyone has equal conditions. We cannot support such a bill because it is primarily to expand opportunities but also to deny those who have so far used funds from that fund. And it really needs it first of all, and we should, and that's what you promised from the Ministry of Culture and you promised, to bring in a media-wide strategy during the term of office of your government until today. We haven't seen that Media Strategy. So without a quality Media Strategy, a quality Law on Electronic Media cannot be passed. We are also witnessing that this law in one speed procedure passed the first and second reading. It is not good, we have seen, and we have witnessed that we have stumbled on the Law on HRT, that this law is without respect for the views and objections of the opposition and the parent board has passed without any major problems in the Croatian Parliament, and when we have shown in practice the application of this law we have seen that it has been greatly wrong that this HRT Act is not good. So, we advocate freedom of the media, we advocate this constitutional category that public money should be available to all under equal conditions if it is the public interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but if that public interest wants to bypass one of these laws, which apparently means that it has control over media space in this part of the electronic media, and the control of media space from any political side of the majority is not good, and it chokes democracy. We cannot support such a text of the law that has not passed the procedure that should have been passed in the Croatian Parliament, the views of the parent committee are not respected, the positions of the profession are not respected, the views of the public debate on this law are not respected, the amendments of experts who have studied well and assessed what it would be necessary for this law to get a consensus in the Croatian Parliament. If we go with this to strengthen the role of the Parliament, to strengthen the role of the committee, then the laws we make if they are of national interest, if they are important to every future and political and economic Republic, then we need to find space so that we can agree on such important issues. In this case, it was not so, and the HDSSB club cannot support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45723	Thank you. We have a report of a colleague, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45724	Dear colleague Salapic, what is most important, is quite certain that I agree with you criteria. The criteria that will determine or allow all public money to be made available under the same criteria should be developed. What you asked was almost all those who have spoken so far, which is a strategy, a media strategy. When is this assembly majority going to bring in a media strategy? Will that be at the end of the term? First she promised the Minister of Culture that we would get a new set of media laws. When do you want media laws? If we didn't get a strategy only after the strategy we can work on a set of media laws that will probably be passed before the elections quickly with changes and changes because there will be no time for real new laws. Then, the very important question I repeatedly insisted on it made sense under the same roof to put HACOM and the Electronic Media Agency? What are their touch points? How cheap can that be? How much common can they be if they act more efficiently? And another very important thing is how much are they really costing and worth the service transmitters and connections? Which is why HRT pays transmitters and connections, let's say 100 million kunas a year or 120 million kunas a year, because it sums up its costs and then cuts off everyone and commercial televisions that are particularly local televisions whose cost is very high. So this whole thing that I've been saying needs to be discussed in the media strategy, see what we really want, what kind of media we want, and all of this infrastructure that will be most efficient to unite.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45725	The replica matches the esteemed colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45726	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, we agree on everything. So as not to ask such questions, or what about the HAKO Council for Electronic Media, how is it possible that the Council, which is an independent body, gives the Ministry of Culture a permit for a regulation, how will funds from the fund be allocated? So there are many illogicalities that should be addressed by this strategy. Unfortunately, if the strategy is at the end of the mandate, then it will be said that because of someone's higher powers and reasons, no strategy could be adopted. And we've been witnessing both you and me for the last month that we've been discussing ourselves, we're looking for a consensus on the important national issues, we're asking that opposition attitudes be respected by the laws, but we haven't experienced that. It seems that this is where the Parliament is convened, and we will not experience it because I believe that your committee is like the parent and expert body that was to be discussed and that the debate on this law has not given support to the law, and we are discussing it today. So much for the consensus so much about the strategy so much about all the important political issues that unfortunately bypass the opposition. And that a truly real political work is being achieved in this House of Parliament if we are to get the right laws that are enforceable, and especially on these sensitive issues, then every responsible authority should seek consensus with the opposition because it is important. And then we're all responsible for the quality of the law together, and this is how all responsibility is transferred to the ruling one, and so are you, with your professional comments and suggestions, we can't come to terms. It's a great sadness this government has allowed itself as a luxury. I hope by the end of this term we won't have to listen to the same thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45727	Thank you. The SDP club's position will be presented by a respected colleague, Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45728	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate. So in my debate, I will focus on the scale of things, and I will not deviate from the subject, or from the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media. Therefore, the amendments and additions of the Law on Electronic Media include, above all, the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with EU legislation, the definition of certain registers and the resolution of matters and the decision-making to which the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes apply, most of it is also the harmonisation of languages, terms and terms, and a clearer definition of the concept of a business creation which I hold important because of the labour force exclusively in the Republic of Croatia with branches in the Community and the EU. The link between the media in the European peoples' community is therefore stressed. Finally, Article 50a of the ban on freedom clearly shows the future openness of the media in EU practice. The aim of these amendments is to reform the Fund for pluralism of local media into the Pluralism Fund, both local and non-profit media, even if possible in 2013 and far-reaching changes would have taken place earlier and during the discussion of the Media Law, but we have also heard in earlier presentations of adoptions and so on. media strategies. The debate has been going on there since the beginning of October 2012 and the matter has spread so inevitably that it is about details that are of a formal nature. The most common remarks that can be heard are why does something change in the first place, why does it even need some kind of change? Why nonprofit? Because your nonprofit is going to eat your money from the local media. And why the fund only extends to non-profit media, i.e. why non-profit media is not considered by companies. So, the first remark, why does something change at all, is why these changes are most often justified by the European Union's babarog, i.e. as the protectors of the competition. It's important to point out and it's fact-finding to say that... The competition approves rules that may have something to do with this, so the new Fund Regulation could really wait a few months and perhaps block funds for existing users. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when a deeper analysis of the matter is actually an incorrect claim because the existing users are already divided somewhere around 30 million kunas, it seems to me that the speakers before me have already pointed to that knowledge. So other than that, the support for non-profits is so-called. What we discussed on the board, support for a small value for which no approval is required in terms of competition. On top of that, the Competition Protection Agency submitted to the applicant the opinion that these amendments are in line with the rules on the Competition Law. Why change? Mostly because of the fostering pluralism of informative views on important social issues. For the sake of promoting the diversity of media technologies, ownership and management of media and for the unclear effects of previous practice and charges of various abuses. The current theoretical debate on media pluralism has led to a grouping of media around so-called. two normative axes. First... would be a neoliberal model of the market for ideas that put first the competition plan and freedom of sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In part two, the second principle insists on the defence of the media... plural society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of positive competence, it relies on state support in media pluralism as a fundamental contribution to the development of democracy. Theoretics of pluralism...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45729	Comrades, colleagues, just a little bit, buddy, please stop dribbling, let your colleague take out his exposure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45730	So pluralism theorists talk about external pluralism, internal pluralism, political pluralism and goes all the way to local pluralism. As a matter of fact, pluralism as an interesting concept in the concept of the Law on Electronic Media in 2004 and 2003, respectively, has been completely overrun by time. Because the electronic media at the time were the normative euphemisms for both television and television. It's primarily for television. While Internet media as well as production of radio and TV programs that did not have a concession to broadcast it through electromagnetic waves then virtually did not exist. In 2003 and 2004 respectively. The reference that can often be heard in the media is why non-profit waste for simple reasons because associations of local radios and TV stations agreed to the conditions provided that non-profits go to a maximum 3% of the funding from the fund which is, in fact, the Proposer of the Law in, and his Amendments and Supplements accepted and some amount of less than a million kuna. A debate on why non-profits, primarily because of their potential, because of the lack of professional support for their current development, but also because of the fund's limited resources. So, over the past decade since the adoption of the Law, whose amendments are proposed, new technologies and benefits have not only emerged but also the whole, a little bit as small as the third sector of association or non-profit media, which is becoming increasingly significant sources of information, more and more and more audiences. Many topics, many informative views on them, many voices, many subjects or primarily media forms, without non-profit media at this point would not actually exist. The fact is that journalists and workers in so-called The third media sector is not founded by non-profit media because of profit motives, but because they want to communicate about them and their audiences with important things. If we really want public communication that primarily serves social rather than market-defined objectives, we need to invest in it essential, essential and public resources. In this case it is also a key question, let us call it the principle of whether it is better for those funds to be entrusted to a company that may potentially re-route profits to another medium or more lucrative business or non-profit organisation that will reinvest all the profits achieved, which I am stressing in public communication. Of course, in practice, various solutions are possible, including support for commercial media but the strategic priority is to preserve and develop the public media sector and support systems for non-profit media, different communities and associations. In doing so, we could often hear representatives of local radios and TV stations say that so far there is no possibility of increasing the potential of the fund and that is the fact. But I personally believe that the possibility of applying to a relatively small number of non-profit media is a reasonable little step in the reform that is being carried out, especially if there is a fundamental analysis of the impact of the fund that needs to be done further. The reference number two that I was referring to was, in fact, in the very conflict with the remark, the point three is in collapsing with footnote two, why? It is added that now they are only non-profit, not to eat funds from existing local media. But it can't actually be done without that media strategy and can't be done without raising the fund. The reason number 2 is waste because support for non-profits is actually a strategic goal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I will remind myself of the National Strategy for creating an incentive environment for civil society development from 2012 to 2016, and this is a measure of 13 which improves the conditions for the operation of non-profit media, but also in terms of promoting media pluralism, which is why the fund actually exists. Let me also put a very short emphasis on Article 48. The laws to electronic media, paragraphs 2 and 3, where it is stressed that non-profit media can be educational and minority institutions, student and school associations, citizens' associations and other NGOs with legal personality, and profit can only be used to improve and develop its own activities, which means that all excess incomes that may potentially be made in relation to expenditure must be spent to meet information, educational, cultural and those needs. What is very important, that is, Article 48(4), that the salaries and fees in the non-profit media cannot exceed the amount prescribed for public institutions financed from the state budget. That legal norm gives rise to three moments which determine the right and the financial system of non-profit media. First, the non-profit medium is a legal person, so equality between, for example, is set up. Newspapers, e.g. The organization that owns them, the organization that publishes them, we can say that. Another reason is that the non-profit media does not show profits and the third reason that wages in non-profit media are strictly limited. On the other hand, according to the Commercial Society Act, the company is, I quote: a legal or natural person who independently carries out an economic activity in order to achieve profits by producing, transporting goods or by providing services on the market. Therefore, if a company e.g. Among other things, it also owns a medium which is considered non-profitable because it is, for example, a profit-making activity. dedicated to public communication spent on all the revenues of the media, then the same medium would want to be considered non-profit in terms of the legal and financial norms, should be singled out into a separate non-profit legal person. In contrast, it would be impossible to determine whether the provisions of the law are complied with or not. As for the functional determination of non-profit media in terms of commitment to public communications, it stems from understanding the motives for media workers to deal with public communication. If their motive is not profit, then it is obviously something else, the need to publish a public communication function, the need to say something, especially what is not said in the existing media space or at least not in their own way and in their name. Why now, at this point? Due to the primary need for action at strategic and short-term levels, indicators, clear indicators of practice and the long-term neglect of the need for changes in media policy. It lasts and lasts. At the end of the debate, I would also like to put an emphasis on Article 28, which amends Article 64 and taxively lists the conditions for incentives, but I believe that there is more space in this section. For example. Encouraging awareness of the so-called Cyber bulling or abuse and Internet abuse primarily of children, which is primarily on the rise. We were recently witnessing a major problem, unfortunately from a city where Vinkovac came from, where it was a Facebook page, so perhaps it was not a representative example, so it was a website of winkowska whores that extremely negatively promoted and influenced children. So it's just one segment in which maybe the law should predict. Of course the police are still having trouble with those things. He'd give a final review because I don't have any more time, on the criteria for the grant of funds, more specifically for just one of them. It seems to me that in his replica my colleague Mesic also mentioned him, it is an interest in the general and regional, cultural development. In my opinion, this seems somewhat insufficiently defined and by which criteria can actually be met, i.e. to establish or assess that this interest is of general, local or regional interest for cultural development. At the end of our presentation on behalf of the SDP club, we will support this proposal for an amendment to the Law on Electronic Media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45731	Thank you, too. Now we'll hear two replicas first. Dear colleague Jasen Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I really don't know, first of all, this civil society development thing has nothing to do with it because there's money from lottery... sources at the Ministry of Culture. It's a completely different kind of funding. Secondly, it is not true that it is only a million kuna because there is already a budget item of 3 million kuna in the Ministry of Culture. This is still on it, and in the coming years it will be even more on what it means to single out non-profit media in order to buy their affection almost as much as you single out for the entire archival activity of this country for all the programs of all archives and archives that store written memory and space and peoples, which I just want to clarify to you in order and size that it is not little. As regards small aids, they must also be approved by a regulation which must also be subsequently approved, which may amount to 80,000 euro each year for colleagues and colleagues. So tell me if 400,000 kuna boosts a year are small. Look at the Culture Ministry programs so tell me what are rare programs that have more. There's less than 80% of them. What does this have to do with anything? Tell me one affair in a civilised world that we're seeking not to be discovered by a profit medium or by a d.o.o. And finally, why discrimination against some media that are d.o.o. and promote public interest. Why discrimination, say, the theater of HR? Why discrimination against the Modern Time Portal that propagates Croatian publishing? Why? And because of the fact that it could go beyond the criteria in a council of a culture ministry to decide who to give the funds to and who not to, and the funds only when you see what they're doing in a year, and these funds will grow over the years while people are fired. That's what a colleague is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45733	Replication response, fellow Roman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45734	So, very short fellow Mesic. Now that you've replicated it, here I am going to be free and again mention the Vinkovak TV that is actually d.o.o. and is owned by the County of Vukovar-Srijemska and the city of Vinkovci of 25%. Therefore, the total share of the local television is 50%, 25% of local self-government units and the city of Vinkovci, and 25% of the County of Vukovar-Srijemska. So, you're saying this TV is going to reveal affairs?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45735	Another replica, fellow Mesic, leave it for after the session. Don't throw it away. A second replica of a respected colleague of the Sun's Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, fellow Roman. And in my debate on behalf of the club, I said and my colleague Mesic told you again, so so-called. support for a small value of 80,000 euros. So, look how many local publishers have been able to get by applying for funds from the Pluralism Facility so far. When you talk about the criteria, that's exactly what this is about. So far, there have been criteria for existing publishers applying for funds from the fund. They had to fulfill the public interest and the public content 10%, the total weekly programme 30% of their own production. So that's what we were talking about. The criteria for those who are now entering are unclear, and so far, according to the very strict criteria that have been controlled there have been for existing publishers. In addition, in order to apply a minimum of 10000 kunas, one small publisher must single out only for copies of papers, which will be submitted to a large book in the fund, or agency. And then all he can hope for is whether he gets someone else's money or not. That's what this is about. So that's why we find it controversial to pass a law that's full of disadvantages. Therefore, I appeal once again to colleagues who were not here during the debate. I'll remind the parent board didn't support such a bill. Let's get this law back together, let's get it in line with all the standards, and let's let one media segment be arranged when everything else that's come up so far from the Ministry of Culture hasn't been well. This was obvious in the Law on HRT, changes in HINA, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45737	And this replica corresponds to colleague Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45738	Comrade Glavak, your replica is at least interesting and interesting. So you said there were rules and criteria that we don't have anymore. And please answer me how it is possible for the media to withdraw funds from the Pluralism and Media Development Fund, as it is possible that these funds were not used for purpose, but were used to pay salaries to employees of local TV stations. I'd like to hear the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45739	We are continuing to discuss the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media. Josip Boric. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Miroslav Tudjman. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Sunny Head. She's gone. The club loses the right to debate on this agenda point. On behalf of SDSS, a colleague of Mile Horvat's. Here's to the pay phone. ... /The noise in the hall./... My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to stop grumbling and let your colleague present his debate. If you are not interested in the debate, you can leave the assembly in peace, but do not interfere with the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45740	Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues here at the end of the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, I would only refer to one fact that was not spoken here. Therefore, we are inclined to support this text of the law because we believe that both Articles 22 and 28 therefore those procedures which we think are very good quality things, or Article 22, are defined as non-profit providers, including the Association of National Minorities, Educational Institution, Council of National Minorities, etc. That we don't repeat ourselves. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Now I'd just like to say briefly why I used this possibility of closing words. So let me say what Article 22 means to us in reality, therefore, when non-profit providers of the Council of National Minorities. And in that sense, we will submit the amendment. And that's why I need to say a few sentences about the very essence of the amendment. In reality, this is a good legal framework, but the problem arises in practice when they should actually start working and working the media representing the Council of National Minorities. The main problem is therefore financing the start of his work, which means financing cold drive, financing personnel, financing space equipment and even certain financial guarantees. Because the regulation that regulates the start of the work of these media is prescribed minimally technical, and in any case the programming conditions for the start of their work. So, first of all, they need to be provided with space, they need quality equipment, they need to be provided with personnel, and as I said, what is most important is to have financial guarantees. So the first assumption is that this right could be consumed is to first broadcast the program. The second assumption is that participation in tendering of the Media pluralism Fund is published mainly at the end of the current year for next year. The third assumption is, of course, that it goes well in the competition and only then is the money from the pluralism fund so for the financing of all these contents can be realised around 4 months next year. Therefore, if we gave this law Article 22 the possibility for minority councils of national minorities to be a non-profit medium, to produce this product, an information product as a non-profit media, then we should make sure that only those media that have already been formed can do so. It is difficult for you today in the National Minorities Corps to find financial opportunities to form new media. In this sense, in order to fully consume the provisions of this very good law, therefore, if we have given such a quality option, we propose that Article 28. add paragraph 2 where, in addition to the definition of funds of funds that encourage the production and publication of audiovisual radio programmes, except as funds encourage the employment of highly educated professional staff to separate a specific position, means that funds should be defined to encourage the establishment of non-profit media by members of national minorities of the Council of National Minorities of National Minorities of National Minorities and their associations. So, to define in this fund a certain amount of funds to form these non-profit media because their beginning is a fundamental assumption that they could later in their work consume this right which these legal amendments have been given to them. I mean, if this amendment of ours would be accepted like that, I think we're in favour of this kind of legal proposal and acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45741	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. And the closing statement on behalf of Deputy Minister Berislav Šipus. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few sentences for the end of this debate. The aim of the promoters of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Electronic Media was, above all, to extend the range of possible applicators to the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media. So, it would now become the Fund for pluralism of local and non-profit media, which today we have 113 electronic publications, 31 televisions and 161 radios. According to the Register of the Electronic Media Agency. Out of the non-profits, there was a question of how many of them there are, at this point in Croatia, 4 radio stations, 2 non-profit broadcasters, 1 radio producer and about 25 electronic publications. Of course, these are limited funds from the 3% pluralism fund that will mean a lot to them. Here we heard of course and here is a colleague from a group of national minorities talking about the current Law on Electronic Media where it says that there can be inside and educational, or minority institutions, student associations, school associations of other NGOs with legal personality, this gain can only be used to improve the development of its own activities, and all the excess income compared to expenditure must go towards meeting the informational, educational, scientific, professional, artistic communication needs of the public. As far as the public debate is concerned, it's almost a year, actually takes formal and informal. Meetings were held at the Ministry of Culture with representatives of the NUT and HURIN on 11 June 18th, 26 June, 5 May, 4, 31 June last year, 13 November last year, 14 December 27 December and 24 January this year. As regards some arguments and objections to the Law on Electronic Media and the Media Act, Mr Cain has raised some of his doubts and some of the amendments. I will mention that both HURIN and NUT have proposed amendments to the provisions of Article 35. The Law on Electronic Media, since this article prohibits political parties from promoting on electronic media except at the time of the official electoral promotion, by reason of the fact that that provision leads to an unfair position of electronic media, personal press and other advertising platforms. The advertising of political parties is permitted only during the election promotion in accordance with specific laws and Article 28. Law on election of legislators in the Croatian Parliament and Article 35 The law on local elections is prescribed that the electoral promotion begins on the day of publication of the lists and ends 24 hours before the elections are held. It was also about sanctioning non-compliance with Article 33. The Law on Electronic Media, which states that the authorities of the state administration as well as the legal persons in the majority of ownership of the Republic of Croatia owe 15% of the annual revenue intended for the promotion of their services and activities to spend on advertising on audiovisual or radio programmes of regional and local broadcasters of television and radio, I also spoke of this on the Assembly Information Committee. So on average, advertising in audiovisual or radio programmes of regional and local broadcasters or radios is spent about 22.46%, which is more than a legal minimum. As for how money will actually be shared, so it will continue to apply the current incentive programme for current users, these are TV and radio publishers at local and regional level and non-profit broadcasters of TV or radio, and this incentive programme is approved by the Competition Protection Agency and is also valid for 2014. And new users, which will use 3% of the Fund's resources to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media in 2013 in the amount of the Fund's new Regulation set out in Article 28 of the Law, will be allocated to support small values under the provisions of this law, which do not require the approval of the EU Commission until the application of the new State programme. And finally, here is a colleague of Mr Horvat's only one note, so in the future we can announce in a future competition for grant programmes to non-profit media that will be co-financed by budget funds under the Ministry of Culture. The goal of establishing new non-profit media is also foreseen. So, of course, the non-profit media of the president of national minorities is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45743	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. You don't have the ability to express your replica. All right, all right. Thank you. We're done with work. On Tuesday we continue to mean the plan is to go with the 2012 proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia, together with a report on the annual report on the implementation of the 2012 State Budget. Have a nice weekend. Tuesday at 9.30.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45744	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 238. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted, a special plate, so there are more. I'd like the Deputy Minister of Culture of the Honorable Berislav Šipush to show himself. Amendment No. 1. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45745	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45746	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. The second respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45747	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45748	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45749	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45750	He's pulling. Thank you very much, the amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 3rd of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45751	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment deletes non-profit electronic publications, non-profit media service providers as set out in Articles 19 and 79 of this Act and non-profit audiovisual and/or radio programmes producers, contrary to the view that non-profit media should be included.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45752	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45753	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 4. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45754	It's unacceptable. Therefore, through the Culture Ministry's tender for the grant programme, non-profit media will be co-financed to establish non-profit new media from the budget of the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, the said Culture Ministry programme includes co-financing of non-profit media, including the establishment of non-profit media for national minorities. The tender was announced on 8 July 2013 and applications are received until 29 July with documentation being submitted by 4 September this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45755	On behalf of the applicant's club, the Honorable representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45756	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45757	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment number five of the HNS Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45758	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45759	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number 6 of Representative Damir Cain's Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45760	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45761	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45762	He's pulling. Amendment number seven of the same representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45763	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45764	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-05-0.u45765	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the final bill and I'm asking you to state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 82 votes in favour and 27 against the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Electronic Media in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue with the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. It is on the agenda, but before I inform you, due to the busyness of the finance minister and going to a ministerial meeting in Vilnius, we have been asked to postpone the agenda points that were due and announced until the finance minister returns to defend the bill. On Thursday morning, we'll start with these points, so I ask you to respect the circumstances of the situation. We will now begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, second reading, P.Z. No. 192; Please, can I just finish the announcement or?
