ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55373	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We continue with the session, but before we move on to the debate, I'm informing you that we should do point 10, point 11 and point 12 today and take care of it. And now we're going to discuss the motion for a decision to call the State referendum. The motion for a decision is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. ... Here you go, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55374	Dear Madam Vice President. Because today we need to call today for the first time since the draft Croatian state a national constitutional referendum as the first case of direct decision-making of the people. I would like to draw attention on behalf of the HDZ that the procedure which they are now intending to implement by the ruling referendum is not appropriate. That's why I'm asking a 15-minute break so we can discuss it. Despite his warnings by the HDZ, they tried to play the will of the people expressed with nearly 750 thousand signatures to call a referendum proposed by the Citizens' Initiative "In the Name of the Family" to introduce into the Constitution the definition of marriage as a man and woman's life union and that, in the decision of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, they had only access to the amendment of the Constitution and the constitutional interpretation that this should be decided by a vote in a parliament in which, of course, the rulings had a majority, but after warning of the Constitutional Court, they had to withdraw however. And the decision of the Legislative Committee to insist on such a decision calls for great concern among all those addressed, so I ask that we take a break so that we can discuss our position on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55375	I'm setting a break until 9.44. It's 9:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:40 AM]] Please sit on the bench! Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55377	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Like I said, we'd like to draw attention to the procedure situation. We fear that because of such a decision by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, as well as the Committee on Law, one of the maneuvers that directly violates the Constitutional Court's warning again wants to deceive Croatian voters. It is clear, behind this warning, that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system must first amend its anti-constitutional decision and make two amendments to it before and may discuss the Assembly in the plenary system and make a decision on the calling of a referendum, of course, which it must make. The first amendment is that the decision must remove the formulation to only approach the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because it is clearly written by the Constitutional Court inadmissible, so at this point I quote the Constitutional Court sufficient to establish the need to amend the disputed parts of point 1 and point 3.(4). It's a proposal from the board. The second necessary amendment to the Constitutional Court's warning is that it is necessary, again, to quote the Constitutional Court to supplement the proposal for a decision on a new point in which a constitutional amendment will be defined which, in the event of a positive outcome of a referendum which we do not doubt Article 62. The Constitution, i.e. pursuant to the original constitutional texts and rules, shall be marked as ‘Article 61’. The Constitution shall be complemented by a new paragraph 2 whereby the current paragraph 2 will become paragraph 3. Unfortunately, despite the Constitutional Court's warnings and warnings of the HDZ, the Committee on Law and the ruling majority in them decided to ignore all this, although there was plenty of time from 28 October to today on 6 November, so 9 days to do so were knowingly and deliberately avoided. And we have today to discuss and decide offered a text that is exactly the same as the original decision to call a referendum. In fact, the Legislative Committee insisted on that. Trained by many of the actions that have been tried over the past two years, where it has succeeded in carrying out the will of ruling violations of the law and in the Constitution we warn of possible intentional manipulation. In addition, if the procedure followed by the Constitutional Court's warning was to be implemented by amendments to the Constitutional Court's decision on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system were to be called by a referendum on the decision of the plenary session of the Assembly and it succeeded, which is certain and obvious, and the ruling ones, although they are unhappy because of this, we fear that the ruling might again try to play the will of Croatian citizens. It is not an impossible scenario that the ruling would suddenly discover, or some of the regime's journalists, as unfortunately there are, that the procedure is not respected, so a positive result of a referendum that does not correspond to the ruling would try to challenge and play with a trickery. Therefore, the HDZ is now publicly and in advance warning of breach of procedures and actions beyond the Constitutional Court's warning and therefore we want to be aware of what this is really about. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that the state institutions obviously took part in the evaluation of the scales of things yesterday, i.e. the proposal, i.e. to say in some way the recommendation that voting should be made. I would also like to warn the ruling majority and, in particular, the government taught again by a series of tricks and manipulations that we have experienced so far in trying to undo and play Croatian citizens' will to the code of good practice for the referendum recommended by the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe in 2007. Among other things, it says that the government should act during the referendum's call, so that the government must not use public funds or abuse its political position for a unilateral campaign against referendums so that citizens can make their own decision on the referendum issue. The government is obliged to ensure through means of public information objective information and access to objective information to all voters. I'm drawing attention to that precisely because we're witnessing an already initiated act exactly in the opposite sense and I think it's inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55378	Thank you. Igor Dragovan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55379	I'm looking for a break for the SDP club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55380	We'll be there in nine and fifty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55381	The reason is for completely unfounded accusations, lies and meals of HDZ club representatives towards the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55382	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55383	Madam Vice-President, since the reason for the HDZ's break is clearly stated cannot be explained by counterpart Dragovan in the inability to reply in a business manner to what the HDZ club representative said to seek a break. There's just no business conditions for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55384	He could, uh, ask for a break to be seen as a exposure that the HDZ club had. I'm setting a break by 10.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55385	And we're looking for a break. It's 9:00.45.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55386	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:54 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55387	Today's debate is here on the opening of the referendum. I would ask everyone to participate constructively in this and not to judge others because it is a fact and should be reminded of Croatian citizens who before a certain time gave and put their signatures for the signing of a referendum, for which they were then ruling did not have the strength, the ability and the will to base it on 800,000 signatures of Croatian citizens. Here is the fact that the parliamentary majority is making a decision based on the signature and demands 740 thousand citizens to call a referendum. And that's an exact fact. At that time, various possibilities were used not to call the referendum, and it was to be called and to listen to the decision and the will of Croatian citizens. And that's two facts right now. I don't know what you're afraid of. So the citizens will go to this referendum, they will say their opinion as well as we as elected MPs, or parliamentary majority, and you will also accept the decision of Croatian citizens. What's the problem? Well, it is the democratic right of every Croatian citizen to go to a referendum or not to come out and make a decision according to his conscience. You can't decide who or how to vote. We have made it very clear that we will respect the decision, we respect the decision, today we will make a decision on the calling for a referendum on the basis of a request and this referendum will be implemented. And those are the facts. I wish that such responsibilities to the demands of Croatian citizens had been before and that in such a way the parliamentary majority had applied to the 800,000 signatures of Croatian citizens and made a decision to call the referendum. You didn't do it then, we're doing it now. And at this point all this stuff you said doesn't stand, it absolutely doesn't stand because at this point you want to prejudge the outcome of the referendum and you think it's going to end the way you want it to. It will end as Croatian citizens will go to the referendum and vote. Therefore, it is our task to ensure here in the Parliament that referendums are called upon by democratically expressed will of citizens who have put their signatures on. Some agree with that, some disagree and all who disagree will have the opportunity to go to the referendum and say democratically secret opinion. So I'm asking you to talk to me like that today. That's one thing. And another thing, please, you cannot challenge anyone's right to publicly express his opinion. Any democratically legal and legitimately elected official to say his opinion whether he will come out and not go to the referendum and how he will vote. Well, that's our responsibility. This is the obligation of every representative elected by Croatian citizens, he was the President of the Republic, a representative. Therefore, not only do we have the right but we have the obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55388	Who's calling? Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55389	Madam Vice President, I also requested on behalf of the HDZ Club for a recess, and I ask you to allow your colleague Reiner to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55390	You couldn't ask for a break because you didn't explain it, and before that, you had a break and you said what you were thinking. But I'll give it to you now. Here, fellow Reiner, let's finally move on to the agenda because during the debate on the agenda, everything you're about to say can be repeated. Here you go. But this means we want to obstruct the debate at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55391	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course we don't want to obstruct the debate at all, exactly the opposite. We know who wanted to obstruct this referendum, we know that within three days it could have been done and done a signature check and it still took four months for the referendum to come to this Parliament's agenda at all. So that's what it's all about. Since a respected representative on behalf of the club mentioned some things, then I have to look back on them, even though they are actually not directly concerned by what we are talking about today. And that's the question of the referendum. What's interesting is that it's just reaching out today, the previous referendum when actually the promoter gave up on it. We know how hard it was debated, the media discussed it very much, the party president was photographed signing on Jelacic's square a request for a referendum, etc., and then when the situation changed, when it came to power, nothing. Now that's a chance to spend it none of it. So let's not move things out of the past because unfortunately they often come back as a boomerang. What I want to say clearly, of course, is that no one wants to prejudge the outcome of the referendum, and at least from this pay phone. However, the fact is that it is being prejudged. Yesterday, Prime Minister Milanovic actually prejudged the outcome of the referendum with his statements and said he would be positive, that citizens would in fact obviously vote on it. Therefore, we cannot accuse anyone of prejudicing because he speaks, and I return to your words, my opinion. The HDZ clearly supported the referendum from the beginning, and it will be for him and everything else I leave to everyone else and their conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55392	Now we'll finally get to the agenda point. - Proposal for a Decision to call a state referendum is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. In the case of decision-making, the provisions shall apply... I'm asking you nicely without throwing it away. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law, Articles 180 to 195. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the report at the session. The proposal for a decision will be explained by the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55393	Thank you, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 81 of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 3 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament proposes to adopt a Decision on the calling of a national referendum. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament can issue a referendum on a proposal to amend the Constitution, on a bill or on another issue from its section. And Article 87(3) that the Croatian Parliament will issue a referendum in accordance with the law if it requires 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. On 14 June 2013, the Croatian Parliament received a request for the calling of a state referendum of the citizens' initiative "In the name of the family", which is required to call a state referendum to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in a way that introduces the definition of marriage as a life union of women and men with which the request has been submitted the signatures of voters seeking to call a referendum. At the request of the Croatian Parliament, a number of signatures were carried out and the State Statistics Institute in a statistical error of 1.31%) found that 6,83 000 948 voters were collected, or more than 10% of the total number of voters enrolled in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the above and on the basis of requests for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative on behalf of the family, it is proposed that the Croatian Parliament make a decision on the calling of a national referendum in the Republic of Croatia to decide on a referendum issue that reads: "Are you in favour of introducing in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia a provision under which marriage is a woman and a man's life union?". The statement on this issue is being made so that voters, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, make a direct decision on the accession of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal is to hold a state referendum on 1 December 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55394	We're moving on to a debate. ... Replication or breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55395	Article 54(1) has been injured. The Rules of Procedure as the representative of the motion president of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System did not state in the report of the Committee's proposal my separate opinion in determining and voting on that decision, which I asked for just in accordance with Article 54. The Rules of Procedure and the conclusion that the proposal for a decision to call a referendum does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, I voted against the motion for a decision at the Committee's session. The president of the Committee, on behalf of the proposer, had to highlight this in the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55396	Thank you very much. I can't judge a fellow Lesar. I accept that this is the addition of this report that the president of the Committee gave. I can't judge because I'm not a member of the board. ... Well, I can't judge whether it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague, Lesar, explained that he had given an opinion that had not been expressed in. ... Here you go, Comrade Lesar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55397	Your Honor... , The report of the Committee and the Proposer shall be drawn up in writing and shall be made aware of this and shall determine whether my previous intervention is in accordance with Article 54. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rules of Procedure are correct or not correct. And that's what I'm asking you to do now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55398	So I'm saying I accept this intervention of yours, if that's what it was. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleagues Zeljko Reiner and Vladimir Seks will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55399	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Despite the fact that we have drawn attention to the procedure which the rulings now intend to carry out the referendum is not appropriate, as usual, for the ruling majority does not respect anything, not the Constitution, nor the laws. However, we continue with this procedure and, of course, we must say what we think about it. In order to avoid any confusion or manipulation that we are used to, I would like to make it clear that HDZ supports the launch of this referendum, it has supported its calling from the very beginning when the citizens' initiative on behalf of the family announced the signing of the call and will vote for the call. But we are still afraid that the ruling SDP will try again with some trickery to play the democratically expressed will of the people as they have done or at least try to make a number of turns over the past two years. I believe, however, that it is important to remember that there is a reason why we are calling this referendum. In fact, I have already said many times in this Assembly Croats have an endemic disease called political amnesia or oblivion, so I must remind myself. This referendum didn't just fall out of the sky. Let us remind ourselves that the main reason for this referendum, which prompted the citizens' initiative "In the name of the family", is that it is initiated by the fact that, first of last year, the legal procedure and unconstitutionally prepared far from the eyes of the public without the influence of serious scientists and without any serious review, is most important without mandatory public debate despite opposition from a number of civil or non-governmental associations violently introduced into schools of sexual education. It is part of a module on sexual, or gender equality that has nothing to do with health education at all, under the pretext imposed on it is promoted by a number of world-famous attitudes, by the foreign majority of Croatian citizens. The recommended literature was mainly not medical and scientific books but publications published by homosexuals and other associations. Once the legitimate remarks of many NGOs, parents, doctors and teachers were answered by the minister with statements there is no public debate, shame on you either, I will not spend a minute of my time on the rose that I will not repeat now, the Constitutional Court has made a decision on abolishing health care by asking that the legal procedure of its adoption be respected. This was only somewhat fulfilled by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports but still some key constitutional court requirements highlighted in the decision were not satisfied, so there is still no plurality but one programme is imposed on everyone. The programme of sexual education is almost identical to last year, and religious and secular beliefs of a large number of parents continue to be violated, and no consent from the Council of Parents is required. So it was an incentive and let's just say it again clearly, it was an incentive for NGOs to move into an initiative to change the Constitution through a referendum. Namely, faced with such a violent approach by the government and deeply concerned and frightened, to what extent would the imposition of an ideological and secular approach by the ruling, the Citizens' Initiative "In the Name of the Family" is afraid that such a way would change the existing Family Law which, in its Article 5, clearly and today, says that the marriage of the community of women and men has launched this initiative to change the Constitution. Although the ruling people apparently think that citizens are unable to understand and recognize what they are doing because attitudes other than the ruling ones have only very limited access to the media, citizens clearly see that in the last two years the laws have changed as paper holes, that the same law has been changed every few months, so they are aware that the current Family Law could be changed easily and quickly, relying on most of their partnerly blind hands in parliament. This is why this initiative is launched and answered to various regimeal journalists who are constantly wondering how it was launched and why it was launched when we already have that definition in the law. When the Civil Initiative began to collect signatures for the launch of the referendum, their volunteers were exposed to incredible insults, outbursts of hatred and intolerance, the destruction of already collected signatures and ultimately physical attacks, while the peak of savagery was burning in the middle of the white day of their stand in the flower square in the centre of Zagreb. It continued unpunished until today, so a portal that received 180 thousand kunas of grants from the Ministry of Culture published comments such as the Family Association is pure Satanism, all of which should be poured and burned. It is interesting that none of those who constantly represent themselves as the main and perhaps the only advocates, promoters of human rights and freedom, the right to express a different opinion, respect for diversity as one of the fundamental values, tolerance and equality, suddenly had nothing to say. Both parties of the ruling prime minister and president of the Republic suddenly became blind, deaf and dumb. Only the HDZ here in the assembly spoke clearly about this because we do not want to believe that there are double criteria in Croatia for the same misdemeanor and that the law of the lynch is beginning to be tolerated and... only because of the difference in opinion and worldview. We particularly stressed that random advocates of same-sex marriages were all media, ministers who walked in the front lines of gay parades, associations that were on their feet, etc., so that everyone would be appalled but this time nothing like that happened. Obviously, at least for some in this country, as well as their ideological predecessors, the quote from the book of Orwell in which he condemned totalitarian communism, which he believes all are equal, but some are more equal. Once again, I stress that HDZ supports the introduction of such a provision into the Constitution because it would achieve additional certainty that marriage belongs only to a woman and to a man because it is its purpose, not by denying any human rights to anyone as it tries to suggest to various spins. HDZ believes that marriage and the traditional form of family, mother, father and children are right, and not only the declarative support of society as we have been witnessing lately, one of the most important guarantees for the improvement of the truly poor condition in which Croatia is present and the survival of Croatian society in general. We stress that all relevant international documents recognise the family as the basic unit of society, and that the protection of children who do not have a better natural environment for healthy growth and growth than marriage and family also confirms the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The HDZ will, of course, support the referendum's opening, and my fellow respected representative, Vladimir Seks, will talk about the legal aspects of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55400	Comrade Shakespeare, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55401	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The debate is being held here in this House on the basis of a proposal for a decision of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system which has been made quite unconistently by the chairman of the Committee of Members of the Grbin, because that decision contains what is absolutely unacceptable, which is that a decision on the accession of the Constitution will be taken. This is in the proposal for a decision by the Constitution Committee which has not been made clear here. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of 23 October 2013 and the Committee on Legislative Law of 30 October 2013 which completely accepted the proposal for a decision by the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, in which decisions are challenged by citizens if a referendum was taken to decide on a constitutional referendum and that this would be a decision of constitutional character and binding by all state bodies, including the Croatian Parliament, so that it would be constitutional character and stand as they warned in their statement of 13 constitutional experts, and as warned by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is absolutely unacceptable part of the proposal for a decision of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system which says that a decision on the accession of the Constitution will be taken in the referendum. As the Constitutional Court warns, if the majority in the referendum declares to the Constitution is changed on the date of the referendum with the current legal effect that the Constitutional Court declares in its decision published in the National Journal. Whether it is necessary for the Constitutional Court to request that the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 95. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court requires the Constitutional Court to determine whether the contents of the referendum matter are in accordance with the Constitution and whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) and (3) have been fulfilled. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for its calling. Or other words whether there are reasons and doubts to ask the Constitutional Court for intervention to be requested by the Croatian Parliament. I don't think so. I'll explain why. A general declaration of human rights adopted at the UN General Assembly on 10 December '48. in Article 16, I quote: "Marriage men and women have the right to marry and start a family without any restrictions on race, nation or religion. They have the same rights in marriage, in marriage and in divorce." The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of Rome in the 1950s states in Article 12. I quote: "women and men of the age of marriage have the right to marry and to establish a family in accordance with domestic laws governing the exercise of that right." Third, the International Civil and Political Rights Pact adopted at UN General Assembly 16/12/66. which Croatia has also ratified in Article 23(2) states that I quote adult men and women have the right to marry and start a family. So in all three of these legal-political documents, it is stressed that men and women have the right to marry. As a result, there is no contradiction in the referendum issue and for these reasons, such as in the UN Human Rights Declaration, such as in the European Convention on Human Rights, such as in the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, there is therefore no violation of discrimination because all three documents, and finally the Family Law speaks of what marriage is. There is therefore no reason at the position of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community that the Croatian Parliament would require the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to determine whether there are obstacles and that the referendum issue is not in line with the Constitution. I don't think it's a referendum question that it's not even an injury to Article 3. The Constitution which regulates the highest values of the constitutional order, the protection between them and the protection of minorities, or that it is an infringement of Article 14. A constitution that determines that all citizens and citizens are equal. Therefore, when all these international and legal documents are considered, and taking into account the two judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in particular in 2012, it is obvious that there are no constitutional and legal reasons for the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion and ask the Constitutional Court to assess whether the referendum issue is in line with the Constitution. The Croatian Democratic Community's club strongly supports the launch of a referendum with this referendum issue and believes that the Croatian Parliament will also issue a referendum without the fact that there will be a referendum that the representatives of the rulings have already declared that they will accept a decision taken at the referendum and will not ask for the referendum to be re-examined in the Croatian Parliament and that the Croatian Parliament will again decide whether or not to accept the national will expressed in the referendum. So, yes, for a referendum, yes with that referendum issue, that with the decision in the referendum whatever the current legal effect is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55402	Thank you. Now we're going to cross the lines and first of all the part that had a colleague, Vice President Reiner. Ivo Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55403	In this assembly, of course, it's allowed to speak and it's not true, but it's also allowed for us to see that something isn't true. So it's not true, counterpart Reiner, that the SDP did not support the referendum decision, and HDZ will support it exactly the other way around. On the Constitutional Committee, you were against it, and we were against it. Therefore, the SDP has supported and will support this decision and at the time when the SDP government, or the competent ministry, has said that a sufficient number of signatures have been collected for us about this, there is no doubt that the referendum will take place. So much for that. We are legalists and we respect both Democrats and we respect the Constitution and the law, even when we disagree. About the definition of marriage. I think here you're trying to create a problem where it's not there. We don't have a problem with marriage being defined as a community of men and women, though. That's exactly how we defined it, that's exactly how the government of Ivica Racana installed it in the Family Law in 2003, and today it is, and we don't intend to change it. The one where we're with you and the initiative that's going on, we don't agree where it's supposed to be written. We're supposed to write this in the Family Law, and it's been written for 10 years, and as far as we're concerned, it's going to be another 100 years. But you want it to be written in the Constitution, and we don't think it should be written in the Constitution, that it's unnecessary because in the Constitution, such a definition of marriage in the Constitution is only present in the countries of Eastern Europe, and in the countries of Central and Western Europe to which we belong and to whom we want to belong it doesn't say it. So, no Western and Central European country writes such a definition of marriage in the Constitution only in the countries of Eastern Europe, I will list them, Serbia, Bulgaria, Moldova, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Belarus, I do not know who I skipped. So none from Central and Western Europe. Here is the question whether we want to get close to the countries of Central and Western Europe or Eastern Europe. We're in Western and Central Europe and you're obviously in Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55404	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55405	Thank you very much. First, let's start at the end, the esteemed representative has a little geographically confused but I will, of course, forgive him for it. I am very glad that God has enlightened you and that you have finally accepted what we have proposed from the beginning, and that is to enter the Constitution in line with the initiative of the citizens' initiative. However, what I need to remind you is that it was not unfortunately so at first because, if I remember correctly, it seems to me that your prominent champions were saying that they would not accept it, that they would not even accept the direct entry of the referendum's decision into the constitutional text, but that this should be voted by the Parliament and that we would then see, depending on how the Parliament votes. Therefore, unfortunately, it is not true that your party's position was at first the way it is now, but I am very glad that he is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55406	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55407	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your colleague said in his debate, the SDP will try to refuse citizens' will. I repeat, what our colleague Dragovan said on behalf of the club, don't measure yourself with your elbow. We'll call a referendum. As you can see, the date is also proposed, and we will respect the will of the citizens. Unlike you, when more votes have been raised and there's some kind of trade in that will... Although the organiser, any organiser cannot own these signatures and it is not the subject of trade nor before the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for that. Furthermore, you as a doctor, it amazes me, you speak violently, you violently introduced a medical education and this sexual education as a health education and I quote what you said: "Sex education has nothing to do with health care." That's what you say as a doctor. The state notes that it has the authority to provide education to children and sexual education that must be religiously neutral and thus does not enter the right of parents to raise and educate children as well as in the religious freedoms of parents. It is the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg of September 2011 in case D against Germany. No one is challenging you to raise your children at home as you wish, to teach them about geography, that the country is still a flat record, although you may have meant it for others because you send your children out to school. Therefore, it is the obligation of the state to teach children and sexual education no matter what you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55408	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner. Please, let's listen calmly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55409	Thank you very much. We'll ignore, of course, the stories of the earth as a flat record, but I'd like it when I'm quoted as being quoted correctly and not distorted. So what I have made clear and what I am still standing is that sexual, or gender equality is not adequately placed in health care. It has nothing to do with health care because the issue of equality is the question of the worldview, the question of ideology, not health care. I did not say sexual education does not belong to health education, but I made it very clear that equality has nothing to do with it, that it is a prank that has been thrown into something very positive, very useful, and that is health care. And once again, to say it clearly again, there is a complete difference between what happens to this referendum and what happened several years ago regarding another referendum. Then the government withdrew its proposal and now the situation is completely reversed, now ruling against it and only 750 thousand signatures finally forced them to call a referendum against their will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55410	Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55411	Dear colleague Reiner surprised me by the awe you are talking about this topic by looking at the semantically your way of speaking inexorably reminds me of a macartist discourse. Indeed, you are talking about respecting the right to differ and your entire speech was about denying the right to differ and that is the essence of this whole story to be clear. Well, it's known, you're saying okay, let's say most citizens will plead that marriage is a union between a man and a woman. So be consistent until the end, as a conjecture and a finding that will enter the Constitution suggest that everyone who is married must be medically determined and certified to be a man or woman. Because we had an opportunity to see, for example, not to mention some athletes from the former Soviet Union, say Tamara Pres, that her sex was subsequently determined. I suggest you be consistent. You're asking that everyone who's married has to go into the exam and have sex, so there's no confusion, so that it turns out that you or I were married to maybe the same sex. So, just like you and me, let the sex be determined as well as our partners to see how this hormonal scale works, who has so many hormones. Come on, be consistent once.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55412	I don't know what to say about that. Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55413	Of course we can redicculate any serious matter to the limit. But I don't think that's our goal here. I must remind you, however, that it was your party associate, Honorable representative Jelusic, who said earlier that the SDP had set it all in motion and that the SDP is very much up for it. So I don't understand how you're turning that thing around right now. Make a deal with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55414	Damir Tomic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55415	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Reiner, you often mention the party, party blindness. I'd like to remind you that you're the only blind party in this country and in the world you're the only one on the defendant's bench. And when you mention most citizens in a different context, then I must remind you that most citizens know it and that most citizens are for health care even though you claim otherwise. But I suggest you invent a new association, some new headquarters and call a new referendum on the abolition of health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55416	The answer to the replica Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55417	Well, first of all, I don't understand why it bothers you when I say the party because that's what your party is called as far as I know. The Social Democratic Party, as far as I know, it's called. I don't know why you don't like it. But again, I mean, I think it's important that we talk about this topic. And if we want to talk about this, we're talking about this. I'm afraid again in the lack of arguments to challenge what I finally said to you in some other directions, it's never good or constructive. We're still talking about this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55418	Hrvoje Neklic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55419	Dear Vice-President Reiner, therefore, this is another attempt to manipulate and deceive the Croatian public on your part, but the Croatian public knows, so it is known who has played and obstructed the 800 thousand signatures of Croatian citizens. This government, unlike your government, will respect the will of Croatian citizens now and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55420	The answer to the replica Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55421	Well, it seems to me now that it's become a mantra, so now everyone who's going to replicate is going to be saying the same thing. Well, then I'll do the same thing again. The difference is important, then the promoter withdrew the proposal and this time the promoter was against and was, in fact, the government was against it, then the government was a promoter,... The government was against it, ruling they were against and now they're forced with 750 thousand signatures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55422	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55423	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you mention amnesia a lot when you say that we've forgotten a lot of things. Well, I'll just say that your colleagues and colleagues are champions in amnesia. If I were to count what you forgot, we'd be here by tomorrow. So I can give you the right to be an expert in amnesia. And when you talk about sexual education right to, human rights are never a single thing. There's something called the right to information, an education colleague is not a doctorate. Education is just providing information. And the children, or their parents, are on what they will do with that information. And on other subjects that also have educational elements, such as religious science, ethics, and the like. From the part of your debate, I didn't realize whether you were speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club or whether you were a spokesman for the citizens' initiative. We all got a letter from the citizens' initiative, we all read it. I think we know very well what this citizens' initiative wants. And you at least give me the impression that this citizens' initiative is over from HDZ. You also talk a lot about Christian values. One of the Christian values is tolerance. Tolerance with other opinions, other visions and so forth, I would refer to my colleague Jelusic, it was never disputed that the Family Law would say that marriage is a community of men and women. However, the Constitution is not a cabbage and in the Constitution we cannot enter everything, it is at least my position. Because what's next. What next can we write in the Constitution? How a facebook user made a joke, and then we can enter in the constitution that sarma is a natural community of cabbage and meat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55424	The answer to the replica Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55425	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague, so I didn't mention Christian values at all, and obviously it associated you, and I think it's a good thing that it associated you, but I didn't mention it. What encouraged me, however, to answer you is the issue of tolerance. If you've been listening to what I've been saying, I've stood up for it, and so have my entire party for tolerance. But tolerance, unfortunately, means that both sides and different opinions must be tolerated. Don't obstruct, don't suppress, don't give in, don't remove but accept them. Unfortunately, we haven't witnessed much tolerance when we've been making any suggestions in the last two years here and in any debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55426	Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55427	Citizens have collected signatures, parliamentary majority is calling a referendum, what is unacceptable to HDZ? They find it unacceptable that this parliamentary majority, unlike the last parliamentary majority, respects the will of citizens. That's what you can't forgive us for. And then you lead, here begins such an ideological war, a conflict of some ideologies that reminds me of a time when Sanader conquered power. He had the same discussion. And we know why he was in such a hurry to power. And every time HDZ starts this ideological war, I fear what happens to citizens' money. What's gonna happen to the citizens' money? And when we're talking about community issues of sex and variety, yesterday I received a ridiculous, over-interesting e-mail that suggests that when we pass this life partnership law, we suggest that such a homosexual community be called a homosexual volunteer community with a shortcut of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55428	Answer. The answer to the replica Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55429	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm not going to go to that level, of course, but I need to remind you of two statements. I must remind you of the statement made by the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of Mr Grbin, a member of your party who clearly said exactly the opposite of what you said and only later under the pressure of the public has changed his mind. I can quote if you want, but I don't think that's necessary, all the citizens heard it. Secondly, I must also quote you, however, and your statement when you said that if this referendum were to pass, if this referendum were to pass, that you would propose to the parliamentary majority to make a decision on the calling of a referendum in which citizens would answer the question whether or not you would be in favour of the parties against whom the court proceedings were imposed prohibiting political action. I am convinced that such a referendum will succeed. So never, ever, in any democratic system, of course, you've alluded to HDZ, we all understand, we don't need to talk much about it, but it's never happened in any democratic system that one high-ranking party official in power threatens others that a party can be abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55430	Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55431	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, no one in this assembly will be surprised that I am extremely disappointed by the fact that today we are even discussing such a subject the same as I am, I will be very open, disappointed and on the other hand swearing to the 100-year irreversibility of the Family Law, but that's another story now. But in that disappointment, I am very pleased that the first speech was the speech of fellow Reiner because we at least honestly seem to be both open and actually unmuffled set up a field where we play this game. So the two elements in my fellow Reiner speech are crucial. It started with sexual education or health care, so it's actually motivation for this whole story is a political argument that actually has nothing to do with the topic we're discussing. For one part of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, we take away the right to the Constitution guaranteed equality, and then the other element in the speech of counterpart Reinera is the pure manipulation with which he is, I will also say, the dirty movement since the beginning of the show, which is that it was a threat to the "traditional" family, marriage of men and women who were never threatened in any way, were not in danger, they were not questioned. And to bring the thesis radically to the end, by seeking the homosexual community to have the right to marriage is in fact in some way experiencing a renaissance of marriage as a social institution, if we want things to end. So not that marriage is threatened but marriage experiences its other youth through demands and other groups other than men and women, to have the right to marriage. But to get back to the beginning of my replica, so we set up a game field, political reckoning and manipulation. And I'm going to say one more thing and I'm going to end it. This story that we are talking about today has the potential to bring much, much, much greater damage to Croatian citizens than all of them let millions of people you are on....
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55432	Thank you. Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55433	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, it's not a reply to the replica. I am looking for a break because it has never happened before that a civil movement, a civil initiative in this democratic country, is called a dirty movement and that, in fact, it is obvious that 750 thousand Croatian citizens are declared supporters of the dirty movement. So I'm asking for a 10-minute break so we can show ourselves about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55434	On behalf of the HNS Club, I'm also looking for a break for the club for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55435	Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55436	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, we are also looking for a break of 10 minutes to try to influence further discussions in this house on this important topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55437	He's a colleague of Pupovac, Salapic. Here you go, Pupov.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55438	On behalf of the SDSS club, we're also looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55439	Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55440	Vice president for the same reason we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55441	Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55442	The National Minorities Club is also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55443	That's it? I'm setting a break by 10.56 hours. It's 10:00.45. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.50 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Club, who will speak? Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55445	Dear Madam Vice President, I asked for a word because this assembly said something that didn't seem to have happened so far, which is that one NGO, one civil initiative, remember how much the ruling swears and swears to the importance of civil initiatives and civil access to everything here has been declared a dirty movement. And, of course, horrified by that, we're actually asking ourselves a whole series of questions. Does the entire Kukuriku coalition think the Civil Initiative is a dirty movement? Do you really think that 750,000 citizens including me are, I'm probably among them too, that they are followers of the dirty movement. Is this how we will treat future democratic Croatian citizens' movements and citizens' initiatives? Is that a reflection of what you always swear? Is that a reflection of tolerance? Where's the plurality? Where is the acceptance of different worlds? Is it possible that someone's different attitude to the world's view of us can be the cause of diphmation, insult, misbehavior? Is that the right way? Is that a democratic path? Is the path when something fits your worldview then you're pushing for freedom of opinion and speech, for tolerance, for respecting diversity as some of the fundamental values and human rights, and when someone else thinks differently from you, it's a dirty movement. My deep belief is that democracy should be based on the culture of dialogue and discussion, based on rejection, insult and exclusion, that democracy should be based on accepting pluralism of opinions and different attitudes, which does not necessarily mean that we must always agree with them. I have always believed and believed it deeply, not just in words and apparently to behave according to that sentence attributed to Walter. I don't agree with what you're saying, but I will defend your right to speak. Personally, I think that this approach of intolerance because of different worldly attitudes is something that is certainly profoundly undemocratic and is profoundly different from everything I believe everyone should advocate, and that is accepting different attitudes when and for them we disagree to say clearly that we do not agree with them, but not because of that someone else should be disappointed, insulted or persecuted. That might be the next step. Personally, I would never call a group I don't agree with because they're a dirty movement just because I don't agree with their attitudes. I think the only way for the future of this Croatia is to not act like that, and especially that those who swear otherwise to civil liberties and civil initiatives when they disagree to expose their face and to try to defamation and such terrible claims, precisely unacceptable and embarrassing claims, are actually trying to defuse a civil movement. Personally, I think that all members of this Civil Initiative should, but also all those 750,000 people who signed it and who certainly, who certainly are not a dirty movement or its followers, should apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55446	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55447	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. This isn't about disagreement. The disagreement is quite clear, we disagree, many times we disagree on many things both in this House and in the Republic of Croatia. Thank God that's true, because otherwise it would be very problematic. There's no problem here in disagreeing with the initiative, disagreeing with the proposal or disagreeing with the ideas. Here's the problem, and that's you fellow Reiner, and I've already said it in my replica, and I'm grateful for that very, very, very plastic in my speech and I showed it. The problem here is that because of a political reckoning that has nothing to do with the subject under consideration, the right to the Constitution is limited to the guaranteed equality of one part of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, and that in this political account we are still using one difficult manipulation and replacement of the the thesis that we have manipulated one part of the people in this country who has gained the impression that it is a threat to marriage, to endanger the family. But there's no danger of marriage here, and there's no family at risk. And if there were demands in this country to abolish marriage, to ban marriage, then we would have something to talk about, then we would probably all agree that marriage is an institution, regardless of our political, religious, generation and other backgrounds, but that marriage is an institution that we cannot forbid and cannot destroy and we must preserve. But no one here threatens marriage, however, but here one part of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens is seeking the right to marry, the right to marriage as the rest of us do. So it's about manipulation, it's about dirty political play. And by taking advantage of this civic initiative for his political breakthroughs and his political goals and thus restricting one part of his own people in achieving and also basic life's happiness, I've already talked about it in this House, you don't have to like it, but if you don't let people live their lives. By limiting your fellow citizens and fellow citizens to the achievement of fundamental human happiness and desire and hope, ultimately, of all of us regardless of political, religious and other commitment, it is a dirty game. It's dirty, co-workers and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55448	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party club Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55449	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we didn't get off to a good start. The agenda includes a proposal for a referendum to be called upon by more than 600,000 citizens. Obviously, principledness and consistency in this hall haven't lived for a long time. Strongly for the referendum are those who obstructed the working referendum, strong for the referendum are those who propose a decision on the same referendum that the Constitutional Court claims is not in line with the Constitution. And together together in 2010 the legal framework of the referendum decision-making has been improved. The debate so far has shown that this topic is not used for the benefit of citizens who have the right to come to a referendum but for each other's world-wide conflict. That's what the citizens, signing a referendum request, didn't ask us to. And so do those who feel that the referendum is not necessary. Like those who will go to the referendum and vote on it on their conscience. I believe that those citizens who have conservative views and progressive in this country have the same right to direct democracy and decision-making in the referendum. And instead of creating an atmosphere of the highlight of democracy when citizens in a referendum decide to use the difficult words of mutual conflict. Instead of giving people information and instructions and interpreting the legal consequences of one, the other or third decisions of legal consequences of non-election, calling for a boycott of referendums or manipulations to which it is possible to come, we do not use our right to inform people correctly, that we take responsibility to transfer our right to decide constitutional changes in a referendum to citizens, so from representative democracy to those who, under the Constitution, have the same right to decide as we do, I hope that this is no longer disputed, we are trying to discuss here by colleagues who have been involved in the debate so far in fact manipulating the will of those same citizens and those who have signed a request for a referendum, those who oppose and those who are obviously the most likely to have no position and expect quality information from us to build a position. So I'd like to appeal to you to stop this, let's discuss the procedure, the decision, the respect and the results of the referendum on how we're going to respect it. It is an appeal because this kind of continuation of the debate will drive people out of their will to take responsibility for the decision on which it is obvious that there will never be an agreement in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55450	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55451	Dear Madam Vice-President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Assembly on behalf of the SDSS Club, I have a need to say that the initiative that launched this referendum procedure is of course not a dirty initiative. But the debates that have been polluting the Croatian public in the last half-year, for a year in this Parliament and in the public water, and clouding the real problems that exist in the Republic of Croatia. And that's the problem. So it's not a problem with the hygiene properties of the initiative because it's not like we're supposed to take care of them. But there is a problem with what we've been doing this morning and what we've been doing for months. We're discussing imaginary problems in this country, and constantly, we're making up problems, I guess, because we're not able to start discussing real problems. If we want to discuss the marriage of a colleague and colleagues and the state of marriage in Croatia, let us discuss it. How many marriages are made up of a thousand inhabitants in Croatia? Less and less. 4.4. How many marriages are broken down from the fold? 280. How many children are born in marriages? 1.4. That's our problem. When do people start getting married? 30 and a few years. When do women start having babies? She's 28 years old. Is that a problem, Professor Reiner? Yes, it is. For you and for me as people from the academic community, especially for you from the health care field, that's the problem. Not the Constitution. Not another ideologie of this country. And not another smoke screen that wants to rise above this earth and cloud the real difficulties that exist in it. And let's discuss it. It's our legal and constitutional obligation. Not create constitutional fog, not create constitutional ideological places and argue with each other who has a party and who has a community. Therefore, it is my opinion that this initiative is not good. That our debate isn't responsible. By any chance, I would also like to say this to my colleagues from the HDZ with whom we have done a huge job when, by Wednesday, Croatia is approaching the European Union and Croatia's membership in the European Union. If by any chance we had taken this initiative before Croatia entered the European Union, I would particularly like to say to my colleague Jandrokovic, who was the foreign minister and colleague of the Mlakaru, who is now not who the minister of the administration is, so by any chance, with, I apologize, we are here, that by any chance we started this initiative before Croatia's entry into the European Union and today we would have waited. We will gladly face arguments about it Therefore, if by any chance we had started with this, we would probably have had additional difficulties becoming a member in the European Union. [[Intruder: Listen, not from the bench.]] There is one more thing I would like to say before the end, to a respected colleague of Shex and to those who are calling for the UN Convention on Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. It is not the purpose of this Convention to introduce restrictions on the character of marriage, the purpose of these Conventions is to introduce restrictions on two important things that pose a problem for humanity, which is when you can get married. That young men and girls can't get married 16 years ago. And the point is to get married, not to have someone else make marriages instead. And you know it, better than I do. As many other things you know better than I do when it's Wednesday... But you're doing something that's inadmissible, which is to interpret such provisions in the function of an ideological model that you don't have in your charter, in the UN Convention on Human Rights, and you don't even have in the European Convention on Human Rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55452	Gordan Jandrokovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55453	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I believe that Article 238 has been injured and that the representative steps down from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly because he directly called on a colleague of the Mlakar and myself and has made one mistake in saying that Croatia would not complete the negotiations and become a full member to discuss this initiative at that time. Someone from the SDP already mentioned that in some EU member states the same definition of marriage is in the constitution, so that marriage is a community of men and women, it is mentioned directly in Poland, Bulgaria, some Baltic countries. I therefore believe that the representative knowingly gave the lie and thus injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55454	I don't think the article you cited was injured, Rules of Procedure. In the debate, he called on two MPs, as other MPs often do. Comrade Shakespeare, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55455	According to the same article as counterpart Jandrokovic said he was injured by the Rules of Procedure. My friend Pupavac rests with me that yes And I said [[Intruder: Please call him his last name Pupovac.]] No, Pupović I say, Pupović I say, no, I don't insult and I don't play with other people's names or last names. [[You said Pupavac.]] I'm not playing games. ... I did not misread the general Declaration of Human Rights or the Declaration of the United Nations. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I know exactly what it says in articles 12, what it says in articles 16, and 23, it's an international pact on civil and political rights, says that men and women, adult men and women have the right to marriage. I was quoting that. And don't spray my quotes. In fact, you have not manipulated me, with my position, but you have mispolized with the General Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55456	Thank you very much. Thank you. And it wasn't even a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it would rather be a correction to an incorrect assumption that no longer exists. Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55457	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I remembered now as I listened to the debates of Pope Francis, head of the Catholic Church who on one trip with reporters on the plane said, "Who am I to judge anyone? Well, then we, too, are not here today to judge anyone but to carry out the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the citizens who have collected more than the number of signatures needed to sign the referendum, and we as a club and as a party supported this initiative and we believe that the referendum should be implemented as announced by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on 1 December of this year. What is the outcome of the referendum will be said by voters when they go to the polls, that's none of our business. Our thing today at all is that we are discussing the measure of the question of who is in favour, who is against because today we are talking as if the referendum had been held. If we wanted to save money from the state budget then we could save money for our citizens who are having a hard time living today and discuss it ourselves in the way we are discussing it today. Are we able to gather 2/3 MPs to change the Croatian Constitution in terms of the definition of marriage as a community of men and women? And today we judge both sides, there is no right for the minority to condemn the majority, nor for the majority to condemn the minority, but today the citizens who have collected the signature have asked us nothing. We are asked to carry out the will of citizens who have collected a sufficient number of signatures, which has been referred to by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia where it is said that the will of the voter of the people in the referendum must be directly entered into the provisions of the Croatian Constitution. The most important question for us today is that the decision of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system which does not say in its section that the will of the people will be carried out directly after the referendum, rather than that after the debate in the Assembly, the hearing of the Croatian Parliament will continue to discuss the core issues raised in the referendum. Now that's what we need to discuss today, discuss, decide whether the decision of the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system is correct, or whether it should be different, and today the team should go during the debate. We didn't think to answer for a break because we wanted to talk about the measure of the agenda point, and when it started like this to offend anyone, anyone's attitude on this side and on that side, it wasn't us who was going to judge who was going to say anything, but those who wanted to enter it into the Constitution and those who are in favour and those who are against have their arguments. As one of us will vote in the referendum, it is a matter of us personally, of our worldsmen and of our will as voters who will go to the polls, but it is an initiative today as representatives clubs in terms of which we think we are not asking anything but want us to do the will of the people, and that is a sufficient number of signatures. Let's call a referendum because there are legal assumptions about it. And whether the provisions on the referendum are constitutional and legal correct, whether after Croatia's entry into the European Union we should consider the rules and how to implement the referendum, that is the time ahead, and that is the time ahead of Croatia's future, and what today is the topic is that constitutional and legal assumptions have been used to call a referendum and that the will of voters whatever it is to be implemented in the Croatian Constitution. And always we who are members of the Catholic Church, not demeaning anyone, let's remember Pope Francis what he said. We're not invited to judge anyone either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55458	On behalf of the National Minorities Club, colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55459	Today's debate, as we have forgotten, I will remind you, those who have forgotten it, is a debate about freedom. Mr. Salapic, are you sure you understand what Pope Francis or Pope Francesco was going to say? Are you sure he wasn't talking about freedom? Who am I to judge the freedom of others? Are you sure? I don't. And he was talking about that particular issue on the plane when they asked him about it. Of course it's also a matter of freedom of the referendum, freedom to plead most of the referendum. Therefore, no one should be offended and no one should qualify as we do in this congregation. I'd ask you who I shared the coalition with for four years, there were nice and less beautiful moments in that coalition, but I sign everything, six years. For 16 years, the authorities of the right center have never asked that question. Why? Because it's a matter of freedom that can turn against those who ask it. I'm telling you, with this kind of modality of the referendum we're going to decide on bilingualism tomorrow and we're going to collect enough numbers, you're going to collect enough numbers, who's going to collect it. We tomorrow in times of crisis like today and watching many times politics run in this country and in many other countries in Europe today-to-morrow, a part of democracy can be denied. A sufficient number of votes will be gathered, especially if it is seen disintegrated in a policy that continues. The bigger the economic crisis, the more the dissatisfaction can be gathered, and if we keep those parameters that we have well reduced for one value, the least I can think of is that it was a European Union entry, if we keep it today, if we do not raise the threshold from before, anything can happen. That's why you haven't asked such questions in 16 years. Yeah, that's why. What were you less Catholics before? No, I don't. ... No, you weren't, because the Constitution doesn't say that marriage is not a union between men and women. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Emphasizing that it's just a relationship, that marriage is just an institution that men and women can make to limit freedom. And the Constitution, instead of value becomes a place of ban. What other prohibitions are so great in the Constitution? This would be one of the bigger bans. So I'd like to ask you to pay attention to the fact that you haven't done it in so many years and the reasons why you haven't done it in so many years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55460	And now we will continue with the replicas for the presentation of Vice-President Reiner, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55461	Mr. Academia, in a series of manipulatory statements that you made on behalf of the club, you have also spoken falsely by offering your own false interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision on health care. I, highly respected colleagues and colleagues, personally of all here in the Parliament, especially expect academics to read the acts of categorical attitudes with at least a minimum of understanding. This also applies to the health care programme, but also to the current curricula and primary and secondary school programme, which was brought by Minister Primorac at the same time, without any public debate that shares absolutely equal values with the health care programme that is now current. Furthermore, you said that gender equality and equality is a hoax. No, it's not a prank. It is the fundamental value of the Croatian Constitution. You've also applied to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Just a sentence before you called on that same convention, you said it was a family, a mother, a father and children for you. I'm asking you, did you deny the right to have a family for all those children living in single-parent families? Is the family for you mother and child, father and child, grandmother and child? Such families are not few, indeed academic debates, academics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55462	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55463	Yeah, of course I won't answer like this because I think it's of course and it's pulling the debate one wrong way from what we're supposed to say today. But since I'm already asked then and again when I'm being quoted, I need to be quoted as what I said. But I'm glad you brought up the question exactly that community with, say, just a father and a child or a mother and a child or a stepfather and a child or a stepmother and a child and so on. We have it settled in our legislation and there was no difficulty with that. Then why is a law now announced that will go to solve these very issues. I'm sorry, there's a law on your part that addresses exactly the questions that are actually solved. So let's not discuss it. I think it's always easy to turn things the other way, but it seems to me that the ones who said let's concentrate on the referendum, let's concentrate on the fundamental issues that are being addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55464	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55465	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here I was also called in some way in the debates of the HDZ Representatives Club and later in the replies to the replica of my colleague Reiner. But I'm really staying with everything I said. This issue proposed for the referendum is deeply discriminatory, deeply discriminatory towards a whole group of Croatian citizens, and I personally believe that it should not be subject to the referendum. The Constitutional Court, however, says in its warning that the referendum must be called. I further believe that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia clearly states that the Constitution is changing by a two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament and that the amendment of the Constitution is declared by the Croatian Parliament. However, in his warning, the Constitutional Court says otherwise, and I have to respect these two decisions as deeply as I disagree with them. I'll do it again. This question in the referendum does not answer me, I consider it bad and deeply discriminatory towards the entire common Croatian citizens. Not discriminating just today at this point, but in the long run. And what you said was rightly quoted. Dear colleague, you said that the traditional form of the father, mother and child family is acceptable to you. I understand that you first of all want to exclude same-sex couples as the forms of the family community. But you also ruled out what a colleague, a colleague of Lugarić, said to single parents, for example, you ruled out those parents who can't or can't have children. And by doing so, you have shown how discriminatory your attitude is towards most Croatian citizens. Well, I can't accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55466	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55467	It seems to me that all those who sit here, and those who follow us, are clearly what I said, and what my colleague Grbin just said. I just earlier said that we have, of course, an example that people live with both eyes and stepmothers, etc. etc. I don't think there's any point in talking about it. However, the fact is one, that you, of course, have the right to your own opinion, of course you have the right. However, the problem is that you, as chairman of the committee, have declared that citizens in the referendum decide only to initiate the procedure of amending the Constitution, and that the Parliament will then once again have to vote on the amendment of the Constitution, knowing you as a lawyer, even though I am a doctor, it is unfortunate that I must speak to you as a lawyer, knowing that the Constitution knows two forms of amendments to the Constitution and that the Constitutional Law knows two forms. One is the two-thirds majority in the Parliament, the other is the National Constitutional Referendum. You know that very well. I don't know whether or not you're deliberately mixing those two categories, you tried to interfere, you failed, and now we're here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55468	Jozo Radosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55469	I'll ask you two questions. First of all, you have introduced comments on the portals, Internet portals that are often inappropriate and thus actually reduced the level of argumentation of this important debate and opened up the possibility of pranks you spoke of, so I ask if, since you spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, it is an invitation to use anonymous comments on internet portals that speak of HDZ and its rule in discussions and accusations within the Croatian Parliament? That's my first question. The second question, I quote, you said that "Croatians have endemic disease," referring to the disease of forgetting what was happening in politics and what individual authorities were doing. It is particularly worrying that this disease is endemic because Croatia is a very integrated and very open country so I ask you to, not as a doctor but as a politician, because you spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, explain the nature of this disease, endemic character and disease that HDZ does to prevent the development of this disease and does HDZ use this possible disease to cover up everything he did when it was in power?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55470	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55471	Thank you very much. I have to say that it doesn't seem to me that I reduced the level of communication when I mentioned that some very ugly and completely illegal statements on certain blogs that haven't been downloaded on purpose for a long time, it seems to me that the level of communication has decreased here when a member of your party called the civil initiative a dirty movement. It's lowering the level. And as for endemic diseases of oblivion, we will be very happy to talk about it, so I will remind you of some of the things from the political past in Croatia in the last 20 years as things have turned, as they have changed, as the parties have changed, as the attitudes have changed and by 180 degrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55472	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55473	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You mentioned my colleague Reiner in his speech to international standards and the code of good practice in calling the referendum, so I will quote him in part, in the implementation of a referendum by the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe, which says, "The role of the authorities must not be exclusively advocacy to one option." And yesterday and in recent days, we have actually witnessed a barrage of fire and the presidents of the government and the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister and the alternative groups who have said they will vote against this referendum. But that's not all I care about. This was also joined by the Croatian government's new activists, and this is the attorney general and advocate for gender equality who consider the proposal for a referendum issue on the constitutional definition of marriage to be anti-constitutional because it brings extramarital and same-sex communities into a more unfavourable position. If they wanted to propose positive changes by respecting existing laws, they had to know that the Family Law was in force, in which it was defined that marriage is a community of men and women. Although they were against it, they could, and could not, ask for an assessment of the constitutionality of the law. Which is outrageous and embarrassing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55474	Comrade Babic, the senior commissioners are the commissioners of the Parliament, and it is their duty to react when it is estimated that human rights violations occur. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55475	The breach of the Rules of Procedure may now be unnecessary because you have responded at the right time, as is your duty. Namely, he insulted his colleague, injured his Rules of Procedure, a provision in Article 236, because he insulted the attorney general by calling them activists. They are like you yourself said what is their duty as Commissioner of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55476	Replication response, colleague Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55477	Dear Madam Vice President and Honorary Representative, you have mentioned in fact the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and I think that with this we have returned to that main course of debate, we must of course respect and hold that we must also warn that the Constitutional Court has stressed that electoral and referendum procedures are the most important test of commitment to true political democracy. Therefore, sticking to it is crucial. And on the constitutionality or unconstitutional nature of any decision or decision whatsoever, I stress exclusively, the Constitutional Court. Each of us can have his own personal opinions, he may like it or not like it, but he has no right to claim that something is constitutional or unconstitutional because it can only be decided by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55478	And now we have one replica of the presentation of fellow Shexes, colleague Milorad Pupovac. You're giving up? Thank you very much. So now we'll continue the debate. On behalf of the club of independent representatives, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55479	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. There's a saying in the Bible, "They have ears and they don't hear, they have eyes and they don't see." I thought that certain colleagues who spoke before me would have some effect on the parliamentary representatives, that they would hear what they said to go back to the subject without going into ideological and political accounts. Unfortunately, this is not happening, but the debate continues through both the grandmother and uncles, and not by God’s justice but by political interests. As independent and non-party representatives, we will support the referendum, the referendum issue of how it is set. And we don't think it's necessary, that we agree with the right option that the Constitutional Court, that the Parliament decides if the people opt for a referendum on a bill to accept it because true democracy is a direct democracy and we are representatives of the people. If the people decide I am for the people's decision to accept and to automatically go to the Constitution. However, it is absolutely certain that a referendum as a declaration by the people should be decided by this House on which issues can go to the referendum, which should not go to the referendum because the referendum cannot be asked about man's freedom, his dignity and some other important issues. The Pope Francis is also mentioned here, but I would like to mention before that what is present in the Church, as far as I can tell, it is a tendency for the church to modernize and it is the insistence of Pope Francis or Franciscan and it has established a commission to assist him in the reconstruction of the Roman Curia and the management of the church. But what is more important than that is the beginnings of Christianity that are related to the person of Jesus of Nazareth, and in the last days I read from a theologian the thought that in Jesus ’ attitude the Holy Trinity was present not in terms of the Theological Father, Son and the Holy Spirit, but that Jesus respected freedom, that he spoke of brotherhood among men, and that he spoke of the equality of men both before God and before the law. Exactly what the French Revolution pointed out in its three words, as we say krill of liberta, egalite and fraternite, and that started some civil society but not civil freedoms. I would go back to it if it were very important, and this theologian says where there is no freedom there is no Christianity, can be all sacraments, where there is no brotherhood among people can be accepted all sacrament, shouting the Croat Catholic has no Christianity and where there is no brotherhood among people and especially of those chosen by the people to solve burning problems we deal with problems which, in my opinion, do not have any particular connection with real life. In that sense, we will support the referendum issue and I would like, if this is possible, to lead the debate on the issue that has been asked and should not ask the Constitutional Court whether the issue is justified or not, I believe that if a people with 700 and some signatures or 680 valid signatures have the right to launch any constitutional change and that it is automatically accepted that political parties then have nothing to declare. The continuation of this discussion, Mr. Cain, will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55480	Dear Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, we have before us this decision to call a state referendum. Okay. The referendum will be held. 12. In 2013, that might be the most important thing. The question of how it's formulated, correct, but the point is something else. When will we change the constitutional formulation of the referendum itself? When we changed the Constitution in Mrs Jadranka Kosor's term, we did it because we were afraid that citizens would not vote, excuse me, more precisely so that they would not go to that European referendum on Croatia's accession to the European Union. And the fear was absolutely founded at the time, I will not say that we have bypassed the will of the citizens but there are those who claim it in the Croatian public. Because more than 50% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia stayed home. Today we are aware that the referendum provision in a way that we must simply change. Finally, here's to saying it's not normal for one rule to apply to local self-government, another to be worth holding a state referendum. Maybe people are more interested in where they're going to be I don't know the garbage dump in Buzet or where they're going to pass some roads in Manjadvorci than the definition of marriage. But it is not normal for a referendum to require 50% plus 1 turnout and for a state referendum you need relative turnout and in that case even a convincing minority can make decisions. It is clear that the decision in the referendum must always be respected absolutely. On the trail of how the Constitutional Court says it today or how it's always said it. The decision must be binding and above the will of this House always how to express myself must be the referendum will of the citizens of Croatia. Now the second question is whether constitutional law or the Constitution should exclude the calling of a referendum in a whole series of issues concerning fundamental freedoms from our Constitution. The Republic of Croatia is a unique, indivisible, democratic, social state. Croatia's sovereignty is inalienable, indivisible. In the Republic of Croatia, state authority is set up on the principle of division on legislation, etc. Clearly, these questions in some way and not to talk about fundamental human rights would be exceptional. Third, what my predecessor also spoke of, the constitutional and referendum question whether the Constitutional Court should be considered. And this morning I listened to some professors of constitutional law who say it would be even logical, but on the other hand we have 670,000 or 680,000 citizens who clearly defined their position and I think as well as Mr Grubisic that the issue should not then go to the Constitutional Court. However, what is most important is to change the provisions in the number that must come out, how to express myself, to election places. I'm thinking it should be at least 50% plus 1. There are now some initiatives 40%, which is what we'll see. I think this decision that we are discussing today is correct, but I am also of the opinion that the Constitution in that part of the referendum should be amended. Now, if we change the Constitution by 1.12. Which will most be relevant? ... Or we'll simply carry out a referendum according to the conditions of the moment when the signatures were collected. [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] I said 680 thousand signatures were collected and the referendum should be held and the decision should be respected. It would be good if there were more advisory referendums in Croatia, but we must also be aware of the fact that every referendum costs, and it costs if I do not cheat somewhere like one round of elections, 30, 40, 50 million kuna. Now we need to hurry up with the adoption of a new constitution, regulate the referendum, apostrophe of regionalism, apostrophe of this minority problem so that what Mr Furio Radin was talking about doesn't happen, too, to initiate a referendum on bilingualism. Perhaps you should redefine immunity for the spoken word, have immaterial responsibility under quotes in the Constitution for a spoken word for this Assembly speaker, clearly identify the historical regions, and Istria is one of them, you don't doubt that. But what is also a visa right now, which is to redefine, I would say a whole state structure, but these are the things of the law. People don't even know what year it's coming, I'm talking about 2014, maybe harder than any wartime, and we've been working here all morning and we're gonna be engaged in marriage. Okay, the people want a referendum, is that it costs 30, 40 or 50 million kuna, that in the state budget we need to secure, that's about what I said as one round of elections, and we're going to have this referendum even though there are those who say it would be better to pave the way for 100 kilometers of unclassified roads or build a retirement home, build a school or rehabilitate five companies that work 1000 or 2,000 people. So the referendum absolutely yes, but you're a man normally asking a question and why some previous referendums, I mean here on those unions, weren't held for the time being. Perhaps it speaks to a great deal of the character of this authority and those authorities. Why did I say not hold that union referendum, why then ignored the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have also gathered, do not take my word, 600 or 700 thousand signatures. I don't know what fate it was with those under the quotes of the Condic referendum that they may have gathered 10%, but this one will be held, the will of the citizens will be respected. The previous referendums as such have not been respected, and this must be enough to speak of the character of both these and those authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55481	Thank you. We've reported several replicas. First came to Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Cain has asked one question about the conditions under which this referendum will be conducted and the possibility of eventuality, I think it is only a theoretical possibility to change the Constitution in the Assembly by then on the basis of another initiative to change the Constitution in the Assembly. No matter what would happen, the Constitution in the Assembly would also be amended before this referendum is implemented and the amendments to these amendments to the referendums that we are discussing today would be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the laws that were in force at the time when the signatures began to be collected and when they were gathered. There's no doubt about it. So I answered the replica that at least we don't pollemize about it anymore, that we put at least one problem aside, or that I'm aware of, of which the legal profession rarely agrees, means, above all, constitutional experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55483	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55484	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, actually, I wanted to take this for two things. It's one thing for me to say what the distinguished representative Kosor said so we don't talk about it anymore because it's completely unnecessary. It is clear that this referendum must be implemented under the current Constitutional Law, the Law on Referendum, the Constitution, etc. And there's no point in talking about it anymore. What will happen later with the amendments to the Constitution is a different story. However, I was moved by something that happened several times today during the debate, and I think we should make it very clear. He keeps trying to make false claims that the last referendum was something that was in 2010, that was happening to him strangely, darkly, badly, etc. So let's really remember what it was like. I especially find it unclear that he does not remember it, and now we return to the fact that Croatia is endemic disease, political amnesia. I find it particularly unclear that this is not remembered by the esteemed representative Cain, who was then a member of the ruling and knows very well what this is about. The signatures were collected, the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political Regulation sent it to the Constitutional Court for its opinion. In the meantime, the government withdrew its proposal and, in fact, the referendum did not take place at all. So let's not talk about this referendum being choked, satrt, ignored or anything else because it's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55485	Thank you, too. My colleague Cain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55486	I was then led by Prime Minister Sanader and Mrs Kosor was a member of the ruling, never, Mr. Representative, ever. Some of mine in the party strongly supported the government of Mr. Sanader and Jadranka Kosor. My ex-wife, that's right, and that's where Mr. Radin and I were always very important. You weren't the one who supported that government for four years. You were the one I remember for eight years. Six years of Sanader and two years of this second. This whole debate is almost irrelevant to me. I'll even refuse to answer these questions. The fact is, this is a question we're discussing today that weighs 30, 40, or 50 million kuna. About as much as one of the electoral rounds in the Republic of Croatia is. And there's no dilemma. The decision will be respected, the constitution will change and the formulation will be presented in the Constitution. And later on, with the Constitution, maybe some next change will happen, and that's what God knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55487	Thank you. Walter Boluncic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55488	I'd only tie myself to the price retrieval. Here is a question of human rights and democracy in principle has its price. If we feel that 47 million kunas are not worth human rights, then it's a very strange attitude. I'm personally against the referendum issue. I think he's seriously intruding into human rights, and in the end, one of the points is that now as a Parliament, we have to prevent certain questions that can go to the referendum. If we look at it a little bit, it's a contradiction with the fact that we say that the people have the right to decide on a referendum. What if you stop a question and someone collects a million signatures you say you can't collect tomorrow? Then what? Then that's an even bigger problem than the present. I think we should look at the fact that human rights, minority rights as the name itself tells them are something that in democracy must be in the first place and that we can't because of 47 million kuna if we and against the referendum don't force it in a way that we say it costs it. It is necessary to express our position whether we are for human rights or not for human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55489	Thank you. My colleague Cain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55490	No, I've never bid with a price. I just wanted to notice that this referendum will cost 30, 40 or 50 million kuna. And the Croatian Parliament, now with this budget rebalancing must provide that money. And it is not questionable in the way it will do whether to go pay us down by 10 or 15%, whether to correct some other items but money for a state referendum or a civil referendum should be provided. However, I also said that some of the issues mainly in Chapter III of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which speaks about the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in one word should be excluded, it does not matter whether I am now apostrophe of all those provisions, but I think that this will probably be the initiative for amending the Constitution that we will most likely discuss next or next week. No. I never bid on money when it comes to democracy, money needs to be provided, but you should know that 30, 40 or 50 million kuna is one hospital, it's a hundred kilometers of paved unsettled roads, it's a retirement home or something. And how immeasurable is that of another occasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55491	Thank you. Next replica Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55492	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm going to tell you something else, but if it's money Milanovic said I won't have local elections and a referendum for Europe at the same time, and it costs 80 million kuna. And who's he asking? You've supported and supported him in this. How much could a hospital have been made for that? And now we can save, let's raise our hands that marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman and we don't need a referendum and we're done. 40 million kunas remain in the state budget and are almost old. But I want to tell you, my colleague Cain, that you're making us all little children. Oh, don't compare that question to the last, former referendum that hasn't been held on this current issue. It was a question of something from a collective contract where it went in some way to reduce some small rights to workers from a collective contract. This is your government and my government, but you support it. She annulled all those rights in that contract. So why don't you now exercise those rights that you claim to be a trial for a referendum to go to? So write down those rights. Not that you didn't legalize it, or that you didn't... but you destroyed it, or you took 80% of the rights of the collective contract from the workers, and you destroyed it somewhere in most of the collective agreements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why are you pretending to be so ignorant? This is a world-famous question that has nothing to do with a question from the domain of a referendum that notes what Reiner says the government itself has withdrawn. I mean, I don't understand why you're harassing us so much here with something that's clearly clear? This is a world-class question, and we want to. What do we here in the Parliament have to discuss? We have a deep bow at the request of 800,000 people. Well, you've won the election with 800 grand, that's pretty much it. That's it. That's it. That's it. And it's not just HDZ voters, etc. It is a wider circle of people, different national, religious and all other structures etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55493	Time. Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55494	Absolutely, the will of 680,000 citizens should be respected and it has no dilemma whatsoever. The truth has won the 2011 elections with cca so much or a little more votes. But you, like HDZ in 2003, also won the election with those cca 680 or a little more votes. And for eight years, you've led in one way or another to the state. And you humiliated the citizens with the fact that you did not give them a referendum statement. If you understand me correctly, I was talking about it. I was talking about the character of them and these authorities. You yourself notice that this character of power is importantly different.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55495	Thank you. Nejad Hodzic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55496	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Namely, my replica is also the esteemed colleague Grubisic for one finding, but it seems to me that my colleague Cain said something. So, his colleague Grubisic said that this is a referendum issue, that a referendum should be carried out and that nothing should be said about it, that this is the decision by the citizens, if this were to happen, we are obliged to install it in the Constitution. There might be a question, for example. referendum are you in favour of removing the three-phase electrical energy system in our electricity system and I think there would be enough signatures in this country and those who would indirectly or directly get information that this system was invented by an evil Serb and you watch out for one Serb so bad that he said three-phase, I will not be two-phase or four-phase, but just three-phase, and in this country, with a good public campaign or one in gloves, believe me, enough people find me to collect signatures for such a question. What does that mean? We have a question on which the Constitutional Court won't say anything, they won't say anything to Parliament. Let's imagine a theoretical situation for enough people to come out and vote to put an end to the three-phase or gentlemen dear in the dark, and believe me, this question is leading us into the dark. So I urge you to, these are very serious things, that you all calm down party passions and to rationally think about whether or not we're going to do this question sooner or later on in a referendum or we will or not, but the question of the Constitution is not a toy, and I ask you all, both left and right, to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55497	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS Mrs Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55498	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I join all those who are calling, who are calling for this debate to be worthy of the Croatian Parliament, with dignity. First of all, in relation to all the people who signed this initiative, to all our citizens and citizens, but also to each of us, whether I agree with the opinion of our colleagues or not. So whether or not to call a referendum but also whether the definition of marriage should be entered into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So I appeal to show that the citizens who voted for us, each of us, had the right to choose well. As for the club on whose behalf I speak today, we absolutely support the launch of a referendum. So, without any delay, without any remainder, and without any thought that the Parliament would therefore have us all gathered here after the referendum arbitration in any way in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. What is decided when the referendum is called, what the citizens decide will become as we know the constitutional category. And I repeat once again any possible parallel amendments to the Constitution on other topics that have been encouraged in the Assembly, and tomorrow will be established and the Working Group for the Amendment of the Republic of Croatia, on this trail, therefore any other amendment and I agree that it is very well thought out how to fill in all these gaps that have been left with us since the last amendments to the Constitution concerning the referendum on turnout, etc. how to do this in the best way, to fix and to work, to fortify and, of course, to pass appropriate laws, but these signatures are collected according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which is in force. And, of course, that referendum must be conducted to the end. And that's the only solution, I think there's no doubt about it and that we shouldn't waste words about it anymore. I also think that the initiative should not be diminished to exercise its right to the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 95. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court because the Parliament is the only one and around it at this time of cacophony in the Croatian public and the only one at this time and at this stage can do so. And according to the esteemed Professor Baric of Rijeka these days, and several times of course that would not mean delaying, ignoring or obstructing. In fact, the Croatian Parliament must at any moment take advantage of the opportunity provided by the Constitution, that is, the constitutional law we are talking about today. So think about it one more time, that's an important question, because the Constitutional Court, of course, has a recommendation, an opinion, whatever you want, we need to respect it very much recently, and I suggest that we do not discuss it in particular. But if the Constitutional Court gave its opinion on this issue, of course, that the Constitutional Court would limit one space and all future reflections on future referendum issues, it would certainly be a kind of precedent and there is no evil intention. However, I think it is also extremely important by respecting certainly all those 740 or how many thousands of signatures our fellow citizens have given by signing this initiative. As for the "In the Name of the Family" initiative, all honors of the ladies and gentlemen, therefore it is necessary to show great respect for those who have succeeded, this is a message to many, to all of us, how to reach our goal. So, excellent organization, excellent infrastructure and, as you can see at the outset, many have belittled it, but the initiative has gone to the end and achieved results. Just because we give credit to those who have succeeded, many have tried and failed. It would be very important, and this is just a proposal in line with the laws of the Republic of Croatia that this initiative is to complete all the information that is related to financing, so it is something that is simply one legal behaviour and that is what I think something that should be absolutely normal in dealing with. Similarly, I think that the Croatian Parliament until the referendum is called, that is to say, not to call, because we will call a referendum this week, until the referendum is held, and I agree, that is legal behaviour, the Croatian Parliament should discuss budget rebalancing and find the means to make no doubt that the referendum will be held and that it will be held in the legal frameworks, it should not be. I've heard these days some thinking as a government should then make a decision and finance from the budget reserve because the government of course has the resources. It's my opinion, it's our opinion that it wouldn't be good. So everything is within the framework of the Constitution and everything is within the framework of Croatian laws. I have already said that we fully agree with the opinion of the Constitutional Court, there is no more debate I believe today in the Croatian Parliament, but this referendum that we are talking about today will, of course, be a clear indication of the direction in which we will continue, in which democracy in Croatia will continue to move. Let this be a tolerance debate. But let's not forget, in this debate, that we talk about different things and when we talk about marriage and the definition of marriage, and sometimes it gets the impression, and here in the debate so far, it's as if someone is encouraging to ban the definition of marriage as a community of men and women. So that definition as a community of men and women exists in Family Law. Now we have more initiative to get into the Constitution. But let's not forget that when we talk about marriage, we don't always talk about family. I personally witness it often and allow only a moment of personality. Many times in various interviews especially this way for women’s magazines in my political career I listened and the next question is whether you regret not having a family. So if you're sorry you don't have a family, I'd always be upset because I have a family. So the other thing is, I'm not married. So let's not mix two things marriage and family. What exactly is family? Safeport, it's a sanctuary, it's that environment where we learn all the best but all the worst about relationships with other people. Our family forms us, our family directs us, our family shapes us. In the family too, we must be loved and respected and respected with all our faults. And family is the only place where they love us for who we are regardless of our countless of course faults. As you often see the confessions of many women who have found refuge in women’s shelters on the other hand, look at their confessions, read about it, try to find out, try to meet with some of those women who have just suffered incredibly, so the shelters of women who have been beaten, children who are frightened, of course and sure that the positioning of this definition of marriage in the Constitution will not help these marriages, will not help those women, these children. Of course, there are cases here, I don't want to discriminate against men in any way, there are cases, and I personally met them where men were exposed but very rarely violence in the family, or violence in marriage. When we talk about minorities and when we talk about human rights and minority rights, then of course we have to think a lot more widely. Every one of us is sometimes found in a minority group. Every one of us and this moment in the assembly, we who are not members of national minorities, many of us are members of different minorities in society. Divorced, divorced, divorced, multiplely divorced, multiplely divorced, single, single, single women, women who can't give birth, women who have given birth with the help of assisted insemination, marriages where there are no children because simply partners don't want it, poor, unemployed, etc., etc. And each of us has been and has been exposed sometimes to some kind of less or more discrimination, less or more contempt, so sometimes I dare say both to open and express hatred. Therefore, in this debate it should always be reminded of the Constitution, Articles 3, 14, 35, I will read it. All are guaranteed respect and legal protection for his personal and family life, dignity, reputation, and honor. And here we are, and let this provision of the Constitution be further guidance in this debate that I would like it to be truly tolerated to the end. For the very end, even though I haven't read often anywhere or in the assembly since I've been a representative, I'm going to read something that seems quite appropriate to me. John... 4-5 centuries ago, 4, no man is an island, all by himself. Every man is part of the continent, part of the country. If the sea takes away a lump of Europe's land, it's less like it took away a garden... your friend or your own. Every man's death reduces me because I'm covered in humanity, so don't ever ask who the bell rings, it rings for you. The club I represent will vote for a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55499	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. A fellow Salapic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55500	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs Kosor, you have proposed an amendment to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia where you propose that the Constitutional Court assess the constitutionality of the issues raised in the referendum. So I agree with you, and I believe that the Constitutional Court should already be involved much earlier on the basis of a request from the Croatian Parliament. Because if we are in favour today, and we are in favour of holding a referendum, to be held on December 1st, and the Constitutional Court is also of the opinion that the voter's will should be applied directly to the polls as a constitutional category, it would not be good to then ask whether the issue raised by the constitutional question is in line with the Constitution. So in my view, there was no need to avoid the Constitutional Court in this crucial role because it was not the number of signatures of 740 thousand citizens seeking a referendum. So we would be sure by all the grounds of the legal basis that the question raised is in accordance with the Constitution, in order to guarantee all rights, first and foremost to the minority and most then the Constitutional Court as the highest body and the Constitution as the highest legal act, should in any case ensure that all legal fuses are legally valid. And all these questions that you've been talking about about family issues, I think our role today is just to be a service to those who signed the initiative, and our future roles in the new Family Law should be to protect our family at the highest possible level, and to protect those who in some families and suffer because there are not a small number of those who hide behind the family and beat up their wives and children, who, after the divorce, leave their families in traumas. Well, that's our job after this, this is just a Parliament to serve the citizens. Today, we do not need to talk about the metrics, but we need to carry out the will of the citizens, and then we need to arrange for the laws to benefit our families.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55501	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Kosor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55502	Thank you very much. Comrade Salapic, you said the amendment, no, that's the conclusion, so a tiny lapus. This conclusion we have proposed is the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, so to us MPs to take advantage of, this is actually the first time, we have this second referendum to which we are going but for the first time that we can react as Parliament in this case. It is therefore necessary to take advantage of the possibility, I am glad that you support it, the possibility given to us by the Constitutional Court in Article 95 that the Constitutional Court tells its opinion, that, in fact, in a way, point on i. Because, as I said earlier, this is extremely important, we are constantly building our system, extremely important to know what this framework is in which we will move in the future so that we do not discriminate on anyone, but of course to keep everything about non-values that are important for the survival of a single society and functioning in the full sense of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55503	Thank you. Next replica, Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go, fellow Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55504	Thank you very much. I agree with you fellow Members Kosor that the decision in the referendum is irrevocable, final and that more should be reviewed by the Parliament and every other state body, and also by your view that the referendum is implemented under the existing law and by the existing positive Constitution, but I do not agree with your proposal for a conclusion that you issued on behalf of your club that the Croatian Parliament is directing and requires the Constitutional Court to determine whether the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution. Why? This Regulation shall enter The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court states that the Croatian Parliament may require the Constitutional Court to determine whether the contents of the referendum matter are in accordance with the Constitution and whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been fulfilled. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for its calling. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution is clearly, notably, that these assumptions have been fulfilled, that a referendum has been called for, a referendum called for on the issue from the part of the Croatian Parliament, the amendment of the Constitution, that 10% of voters have asked for it. It's been verified. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The question now remains whether the contents of the referendum issue are in line with the Constitution. Yes, it is, because according to Article 5. Family law Marriage is a community, a community of men and women. [[Invader Batinić: Time of fellow Shex.]] So there is no reason to dispute and question content with the Constitution of the referendum issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55505	Thank you, fellow Shakespeare. We have an answer. Comrade Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55506	Thank you very much. I'm glad, Mr. Shakespeare, that at least some of what I was saying you agree with and that you support it. However, the position I have made concerning the Constitutional Court, i.e. the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of Article 95 and the position of the Constitutional Court on the referendum issue, is identical with many other constitutional and legal experts. I mentioned, for example, Professor. Baric, which makes it very clear to Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, of the values referred to in Article 3 but also of others. However, some other former judges of the Constitutional Court, I believe that you followed it here and today express that same opinion in this sense that at this stage it would be good, it would be useful and certainly in accordance with the Constitution to seek once more I will not say help, but certainly the Constitutional Court's opinion. It is interesting, of course, but you will certainly not understand it at all but as a finding of the fact that the same opinion of yours was expressed by the Prime Minister and the president of the SDP, Mr Milanovic, in an interview with Croatia television yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55507	Thank you. Replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55508	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. It's mostly to agree with everything you've been saying about marriage and family because you've been talking about substances. I only disagree with this view that we should seek the opinion of the Constitutional Court. First of all, we are legislators and constitutionalists and we can take responsibility and comply with the will of more than 700,000 people as it was some time ago when there were even more, and then the Constitutional Court, in agreement with the organizers, felt that there was no referendum. But this is my chance to tell her that. No one, when the signatures have been collected, has any organizer or able to manipulate these signatures and at least the organizer. It's people's signatures. However, we see that this has been done in the past and God forbid it ever happens again. You especially need to note the validity of your discussion when talking about the importance of family. Aren't two sisters who fed their father and mother a family? Aren't mothers and children family? They did. And one member is family. There's no definition of a real family anywhere. And rightly you say family must be a refuge, must be shelter, must be the source of friendship and love. Often it's not like that. We should never have talked about such things, and the women suffered. And thank you for this contribution to this debate. And that's why it seems to me, and I especially need to stress this is an opportunity to talk about both marriage and family, and also beyond and in broader relationships that come into a relationship that we need to talk about more love, more friendship, because that's how life lives, and it doesn't come down to definitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55509	Thank you. Answer, colleague Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55510	Thank you very much. So here's another chance maybe a word, two about the referendum for which the signatures were collected in 2010. So a really representative number of signatures has been collected. However, as you know, the government withdrew the proposal, it was the Labour Act. A lot of people signed it. It's my belief that even then and now, they didn't really know what the point was. It wasn't the point of how it was said just before that some workers' rights were being reduced. The main thing was to regulate the minimum conditions under which collective agreements can be changed. So it's not logical and it's not good we talked about back then, and I'm saying now that collective agreements are equal to the same rights when GDP is growing, when it comes to the state as an employer, and when GDP, for example, falls 7% as it was almost in 2009. However, a sufficient number of signatures have been collected and the government has therefore given up this amendment to the law, and the government has now had a sufficient majority to implement these minimum amendments in the Croatian Parliament. However, the fact is that we also talked to the unions at the time, with representatives of the five union centres and agreed on an agreement that later on did not come to an end. However, on the basis of this fact, the Constitutional Court has made the decision it has made, i.e. the words it has made if I can use that word. And that's why I still think it's good to address the Constitutional Court because the Constitutional Court is the institution that when a certain nightmare in public, in society, here are the various experts dealing with the Constitution that then the Constitutional Court is this institution that shows its authority the direction in which we should go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55511	Thank you. And the last replica, Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55512	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, you see, everyone gives you the right around some part of what you said, about some others not, but nobody mentions the part that seems to me to be the most inspiring, which is that we're all a minority or all of us in one part of our lives are minorities. The nicer words about the smaller ones, in general, are hardly said, so I thank Mrs. Kosor. I'm going to say what since Pope Francis, Pope Franne, Pope Francesco, was mentioned earlier, not only did he say who I am that I can judge gays, homosexuals than he said, and by what you think, by addressing the editor-in-chief of the Jesuit Society magazine, what do you think when God looks at a homosexual person, does he accept him as such or rejects him? We are very two-faced about whether we should give something or not to give to the Constitutional Court. In one case, some would give the Constitutional Court something, the other not the other. At just one moment, it happened that we all agreed, all parties agreed, except IDS I must say, that the Constitutional Court is being given the law that this entire Parliament voted for as if it had been adopted, the Constitutional Law on National Minorities. You all voted in favour of the law and all agreed to give it to the Constitutional Court who decided as he decided to change the election rules three months before the election, completely counter-constitutional. Now I'm wondering, and there's one convergence between me and what my colleague Ingrid Anticevic said, should we even ask any questions about this composition of the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55513	Time. Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55514	Yes, I think that fellow Radin that politics has the right to think and about what we have in some way opened up, about how very often many of us are in different situations and discriminated and humiliated and insulted, out of line and so on. It's the same thing we're talking about today in this debate. And when it comes to family, it should always be considered, when it comes to family being just husband, wife, and children. So we should consider something that is close to all of us and that is surely on our hearts, which is the families of the dead Croatian defenders. Is she a widow of Croatian defenders with children? Is she a family? Yes, it is. Is she a family without a husband? Yes, it is. But it's family. So, I mention this because of all those who talk about the sanctity of marriage that I respect, but in particular in politics they have and can only be called upon by those who consistently live in everyday life. Just them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55515	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55516	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, I will begin my discussion with five problems. The first problem, when discussed on the Committee on the Constitution on the Proposal for a Decision on the calling of a referendum, I gave my own opinion on the grounds that it was a proposal for a decision that was not in line with the Constitution. Because of the definition to approach the amendment of the Constitution and I thought it had to be written to change the Constitution. Second, on 28 October of this year, the Constitutional Court made a precedent and responded with its warning to the proposal for a legal act which is in the procedure in the Assembly and warned the Parliament that these provisions in paragraphs 1 and 3 were not in conformity with the Constitution. The third problem, following the Constitutional Court's warning, did not agree with the motion for a decision, and we are discussing today, and we have a legal act at the decision which the Constitutional Court considers to be unconstitutional. It is the second precedent we make in the Croatian Parliament. We take the risk that, even after the adoption of the Decision on the opening of the referendum, if the Constitutional Court remains at its position on the counter-constitution of the provision of point 1 and 3 of the Decision on the opening of the State referendum. I'm not saying it's going to happen, but I repeat that we are putting ourselves at risk of repealing the decision. What will result in a possible annulment of the decision? Suspension of a concrete referendum. I again appeal to all those in the ruling coalition who decide to understand the risk and suspension of the referendum. The fourth problem, a growing number of those, and counterpart Kosor was now talking about it, which suggested that the Assembly address the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the proposed issue. Didn't we go into absurdity that we have one opinion of the Constitutional Court and we don't respect it and we're looking for another opinion that we don't know if we'll respect it when we get it? We trust the Constitutional Court a little bit, we don't believe a bit. At this point, I do not wish to claim that we must or may not, may or may not address the Constitutional Court because of the next fifth problem. Over the past 48 hours, some fellow MPs have seen that they do not care about the assessment of constitutionality but about the arrival of a kind of moratorium on the maintenance of a referendum and manoeuvre that could thus be carried out. Not just an assessment of the constitutionality. It's my fear that I have the right to. And another dilemma, if we go from the assumption that it is a question that is not constitutionally questionable then we also question the constitutionality of the existing provisions of the Family Law that defines marriage as a community of men and women. No one answered that question. And we will support the conclusion that the Parliament is going to the Constitutional Court with a question of constitutionality only on one condition that such a proposal for a conclusion is proposed by all clubs ruling the Kukurik coalition together. The facts I wish to warn you, in 2010, constitutional changes were made in this House when the rule of law of the referendum was abolished. Without my voice. But then, in addition to that, there were two other issues in the dispute in the '86 article, today in '87. It's... the signature and provision on which the referendum should not be decided. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the procedure until the last moment, the amendment was the first to vote that the number of signatures 10 was reduced to 5 and 2, I will read it: "The referendum referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article cannot be called on on proposals that are being reduced by the Constitution established human rights, fundamental freedoms and equality and the protection of the rights of national minorities and the proposals relating to the tax system and the state budget.". Even the chairman of the Constitutional Committee then said that the Committee on the Constitution would accept the amendments, at the last minute just before the vote these amendments were withdrawn from the procedure and the Assembly did not declare them. If the Parliament had then accepted this amendment so that today 90% of the dilemmas about this referendum would not have. But in the 10th month of that same year, 2010. The Council adopted a constitutional law on the implementation of constitutional changes which clearly specified that constitutional amendments which cannot be directly applied to specific laws should be regulated within 6 months and one such clause also referred to the referendum law. The fact second, on 7 February of this year, the Croatian Labourers offered and here the Parliament discussed constitutional changes on the number of signatures required for the referendum and on this occasion reminded me of the need for the adoption of a new Law on Referendum and the possibility if the Parliament allowed in the first step the accession of constitutional amendments that we could then regulate and the areas on which the referendum could not be decided as well as the order of jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court which would be at the beginning of the citizens' initiative and not at the end of the proceedings. So that was February 7th of this year and on February 8th of this year 76 representatives of the Croatian Parliament rejected the possibility of defining the legal framework of the referendum with as little dispute as possible in February and March. I am sorry that this proposal was then characterised as populism and demagogy. Today, these same conscious facts of paying for the high cost of schooling the absence of a referendum experience in the Republic of Croatia are leading the world's recommendations and conflicts by neglecting the interest of citizens. The oath we made is that we will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This requires every MP to defend the right to a citizens' referendum and when he disagrees with the proposal or question. All those who fear such provisions in the Constitution and I truly believe that the provision of marriage in the Constitution should not be because we have it in the law. And it, in a legal sense, does not mean anything in the exercise of the right of marriage. But who in the House prevents us from making changes to the Constitution during these procedures if this referendum passes we also introduce a provision and definition of the notions of an extramarital community and the same-sex community. So they're all equal. How she'll vote or how they might vote anyway. But then the issue of discrimination against any minority by the majority is resolved by constitutional formulations and that is the right of the Croatian Parliament. And such an approach would fully respect the referendum's decision. This topic has been shared by Croatian society and the fear of intrusion has developed. But 3 million 750 thousand adult citizens under the Constitution have the right to decide. And instead of calling on any fear, fear of intrusion should only have courage and will to come to a referendum and nothing more. There, a week ago, few commodities are reduced, a little early, perhaps to get up and go to the referendum and thus prove the willingness to take responsibility for political decisions and by citizens. All the recommendations are made by the vote by accession to the referendum and by decision by citizens. And to be perfectly clear, every maneuver committed by either side, any party that would lead to the obstruction of the referendum will result in the Croatian Labourists in the Assembly not supporting any constitutional changes. I repeat, none. Whoever's trying to mince a civil referendum needs to know that. Although we disagree with the question of the content of the Constitution, we will finally defend the right of citizens to have such a referendum. I appeal to the Chair of the Constitutional Committee to take advantage of tomorrow's session, to supplement the agenda and to agree on a motion for a decision with the Constitutional Court's warning, thereby removing the threat that the decision will be annulled by the Constitutional Court or be a new point of dispute. Let's not play games, there will be a large number of citizens at the referendum. Any misunderstanding that would remain, any possibility and in any indication that this decision will not be as they decide is not a good message and we must remove any doubt. It's our responsibility. If, therefore, we are referring to the Keeper of the Constitution and this is the Constitutional Court, he has given us clear instructions on what we must do. And I end up next, I didn't mean to talk about it, but it was too often mentioned. The Constitutional Court once exercised its right and suspended the will of citizens when workers sought a referendum on the Labour Law. What were all the motives of those who signed then and today, how much they understood the subject and the question did not matter. But the basis of the suspension of the referendum at the time was not the very fact that the government withdrew the draft labour law. Read carefully the Law on Referendum. It said the provision that the decision taken at the referendum at the citizens' request does not have a period of validity, it is permanent and can only be amended at a new referendum. And the Constitutional Court, in light of the decision at the time, gave me two questionable arguments which I respect, although I do not agree with them, that the basis for the referendum disappeared at the time of the withdrawal of the law, that this actually fulfilled the purpose of the referendum because there is no law and that within a year a proposal that would be contrary to the referendum question should not be proposed. Within a year. And the referendum's decision to hold it would not be worth a year but a permanent one, and it could only call off a new referendum. That's the value that we have written in the referendum law today and that's the difference between the referendums that the bodies of local self-government, regional self-government, Parliament. And that is why I am cautious, reserved at times when there is a procedural possibility that even after the referendum we come to this hall and argue how the results of the referendum are applied. The position of the Croatian Labour Club in the vote will also depend on the final decision of the Constitution Committee on the content of the decision and the possible proposal of all clubs to the Kukuriku coalition in addressing the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55517	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First call from a colleague named Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55518	Thank you very much. Yes, colleague Lesar, at that session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on 23 October, you warned and when voting, you issued your opinion that it was in the draft decision that it was anti-constitutional. I have also warned of this, and in the record which unfortunately and in the proposal for a decision which my colleague Grbin did not fully read, it is said that there was one single opinion, it was mine, and it does not indicate who. And it is stated that your separate opinion, with the indication that you delivered that opinion, warned of counterconstitution. You are now pleading therefore on the board president to withdraw that part of the motion for a decision, which we are now discussing, against the constitution, where we are now discussing that no decision on the accession of the Constitution will be taken. I also call on the board president to finally say through the debates that he accepts the Constitutional Court's warning, so let him finally say so that he will avoid all the risk of the Constitutional Court declaring an unconstitutional registered referendum, since a referendum has been called. Let it make it clear and loud that they accept the Constitutional Court's decision, i.e. a warning and that they withdraw that part to approach the amendment of the Constitution, that it is the content of the referendum issue. The HDZ Club will submit an amendment, the amendment on the subject is in preparation, and I ask that the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Mr. Peja Grbin, is finally irrevocably saying that the part is withdrawn from the motion for a decision that you have submitted to the Committee on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55519	Thank you. Comrade Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55520	Comrade Shakespeare, you're right. I said we're in a precedent situation. We are discussing and deciding a decision that the Constitutional Court warns against is not in accordance with the Constitution. If we vote in favour of such a motion for a decision, we are put in a position to vote against the constitutional court's stance that warns against the constitution. If we vote against someone, they can accuse us of voting against the referendum. And how to get out of this rather than once again on the Committee on the Constitution as motionrs of the decision consider the position of the Constitutional Court and the text of the decision agree with the Constitution. And that's why it's important that we deal with these things here in the Parliament today so that after the decision to call a referendum, at least legal doubts, ideologically, the world-famous ones will remain. It can't be avoided. But it is our responsibility not to have any legal doubts left after the decision has been agreed upon. That's how I'm doing my duty. I'm going to hire parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55521	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55522	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar, you are rightfully reminded of the oath that we, as representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, have made that we will, first of all, respect the Constitution and carry out what the Constitution tells us to do. Well, that's the same thing as Article 62. The constitution that the family says is under the special protection of the state, marriage and legal relations in marriage, the extramarital community, the family is governed by law. Which means that when the Constitution and if the Constitution changes in the referendum, we will also have to pay attention to Article 62. But also, we must consistently implement what, that is, live what are the greatest values of the Constitution. In particular, I warn of Article 3 and of freedom and equality and national equality, but also of a multi-party system. It is, then, something that the Constitution clearly states in Article 3 so that one day it would not happen to someone, for example, to strike at what is said in Article 3 of the multiparty system, and that is possible and all possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55523	Thank you. My colleague Lesar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55524	I am pleased that it has matured the political awareness that in the Constitution we must define and well illustrate all the provisions, but also in the accompanying laws to make the Constitution so as to prevent wrong decisions. And I want to believe that the atmosphere during the debate on constitutional changes and the writing of the proposal will be deprived of the world's conflicts at least then after all these experiences we've been through these days.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55525	Thank you. And the last replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55526	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, dear colleague Lesar, you have pointed out exactly what we have actually pointed out in our address after the first break when we warned of the fact that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political Regulation would have to change this decision, against the constitutional decision because it is constitutionally unacceptable, as the Constitutional Court has said in its warning that only access to the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And it is also important to define precisely the text that will directly enter the text of the Constitution so that the same does not result in problems or any obstacles. What matters and I mean what needs to be pointed out is that we don't have much time. December 1st is somewhere in three weeks. We know that before that, the State Election Commission should give instructions on holding a referendum. The county committees for the implementation of the State referendum must then appoint city and municipal committees and all this should be done and prepared within a very short period of time. Therefore, that is why it is important for this debate to be constructive, to be focused on how best to prepare a referendum and how to avoid any problems that you have identified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55527	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDSS club Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55528	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party club, I want to say three things. So, while we in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public are exhausting ourselves, we accuse each other and rarely insult ourselves about this topic about the justification for calling a referendum on the basis of a referendum initiative next to us, the facts go completely undetected, so let me, I will, some of these facts I have already said, and some I will now mention. According to the 2011 census, Sisko has 11.000 23 married men, and the single 6000 615 so over 50% There are 11 107 in the same town of married women and 4 790 in the same town of married women. And we, in order not only to remain in Sisak, will also mention Bjelovar, and not only for those who are less developed and from less developed areas of Croatia, will also mention Varazdin so that we can see that we have 9 231 married men in Bjelovar, and we have 5 354 singles in Bjelovar. We've got 9 331 married women and we've got 3 983 single women. In Varazdin, colleagues and colleagues, we have 10,704 married men, and we have 6,451 single men. We have 10 835 married women, and we have 5 214 single women. If I were to know and be sure, as I am not, that the referendum initiative we are discussing will change this and that the number of married men and married women will increase by at least 10% and I and the other two SDSS representatives would immediately raise their hands for this regardless of our world-wide position. But we know he won't, as you know. Also since 2007 according to data that we can all read in the Report of the National Statistics Institute of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 we have a continuous decline in natural growth. Last year, 41,197 was born and 51,009 died. The negative score is almost 10,000. This means that a city the size of the White Manastir dies annually in the Republic of Croatia. Will this change this referendum initiative? I repeat once again if you would change it with both hands I would vote for despite my different world view of it, but it won't, it won't. Just like that didn't change the demographic policy that was being made in '96. Minister Jura Radic, then, has not changed any other demographic policy, let alone the provision for amending the Constitution. He won't! Same data for the number of married and divorced. So 20,211 marriages were concluded in 2011, and 5,662. The difference between 2011 and 2007 is I'll tell you more of those numbers, and then we'll stop, and in 2007, the number of marriages was 23 140, and in 2011. 20 211. So, for three thousand and something less. The number of broken marriages, divorced in 2007, was 4,785, and in 2011. 5 662. And we can charge ourselves, call ourselves this party or this community, the predecessors of the communists, the predecessors I don't know in which case and what do we get? We get that reality and life go beside us, and we're like a responsible place to discuss what is and what is the state of the nation. Well, the state of the nation is here, and it's not a referendum initiative. And when my colleague Coleman said words that I wouldn't repeat and I wouldn't recommend to him that he repeat them, then it was a distraction from the real Croatian reality, unfortunately. We have a shortfall in natural growth. The live births were 9.4 deaths were 11.6. The difference is minus 2.2. These are our facts, demographics. And now we can go to economics. Why don't the young get married? Because they have no idea they have a family. They don't! They don't have a job, they don't have regular payments, they don't have a chance for more permanent jobs, and that's why it's happening. Because they live in environments where they can't secure themselves, let alone their offspring the future. And that's our problem. Marriage is a presumption of the future, colleagues and colleagues, not a function of either church or any other initiative. And this country has less and less futures than you can see from these statistics. And that's our problem. Our problem is not our past or HDZ party or SDP. Neither division in Croatia on the left nor on the right. Our problem is our present reality. And those of us who instead of turning to this reality and looking at the facts, the data I found are called Croatia in fact, in numbers rather than in letters about the referendum. And let us call to mind in the name of responsibility to the Constitution which we have sworn and in the name of patriotism for which some more and some less are called here because it is our task. Patriotism, this country is disappearing. And her future can't be seen and that's our problem. If this were resolved by a referendum on marriage, I don't believe that there would be only a representative of the SDSS, that there would be representatives in this House who wouldn't vote for it but that doesn't solve the problem. For this reason, let me turn to what the topic of the debate is in the narrow sense of that word. First, the Self-Democratic Serbian Party Club finds no reason to challenge this initiative's right to launch a referendum, i.e. referendum initiatives and requests for a referendum. Not to her or anyone else, no matter what the world view differences. The problem is that, and let me not be resented by yesterday's partners of the HDZ coalition, which is being placed in the context of a ideological political campaign that does not just stop at that, but is also directed towards other elements. Both according to Cyrillic and other symbolic places in the Republic of Croatia which wants to be revised and changed what was created for years in a difficult way. And when Dr. Radin, our colleague Radin here said why we didn't do it 16 years ago or 16 years ago, we didn't do it either. The Cyrillic didn't bother anyone in the middle of the war years, no one, but some people and some politics and some injuries, but it didn't. Who decided to bother you today? I'm afraid of the same people who have nothing to do but do what they do with this referendum initiative. So, people who go from an ideological political campaign. And instead of dealing with how to change this, we are dealing with how to change the Constitution to make it less European than it should be. Now, speaking of this story, we will raise our hand for the Parliament to decide on a referendum, but there remains one problem that we have warned on the Committee on the Constitution, which is that this initiative, regardless of its content, contains a component of crisis, constitutional crisis in this House and in Croatian political life. No one can dispute the people's will and the people's referendum initiative or decision on that national referendum initiative, and there are people who say it perfectly right along with the Constitutional Court. However, if there is a conflict between the two people's will, one made in direct democracy and the other expressed in representative democracy, so we here, sitting in the Parliament, then it is our duty to the Constitutional Court and our duty to do everything we can to prevent it. And not everything is done. The Constitutional Court warned that we are obliged to respect the decisions of direct democracy, referendum democracy but on the other hand did not find an answer to the question of how to convince the required majority of 150 and how many MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament to raise their hand for it? How? As he cannot convince the citizens who will go to the referendum, he cannot convince either MPs or representatives of the Croatian Parliament. And he didn't answer that question, and he should have come forward in accordance with his powers. Since he did not give the answer then I colleagues and colleagues are now saying this primarily to colleagues from the SDP and colleagues, I suggest that we ask him how does it help to overcome this so that we do not turn out to be guilty of conflict between these two types of will that objectively exists as a danger. And it seems to me that it would be wise, regardless of how we discussed a week ago that the Parliament would ask the Constitutional Court to interpret this real danger and how to get out of it. Because she exists. She exists. And you need to find an adequate answer in that. Whether the refund question is in accordance with the Constitution or not. Whether the referendum question violates the principle of equality in the Constitution or does not violate the principle of equality. Whether the referendum issue violates the principle of secularity of Croatia defined in the Constitution or not, or does not. You need to give an answer to that. Someone's gonna say no right now because it's clear, someone's not clear, someone thinks it's not. So if that's the case, then I think it's important that we hear that kind of opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55529	Thank you, too. We've reported a lot of replicas. The first one was Branko Hrg. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55530	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you have presented this difficult data for Croatia regarding the number of unmarried and single in Croatia, you have expressed doubts that the debate on the issue of marriage in the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian public will in particular somehow manifest an improvement in the situation in Croatian society. The fact is that what I agree with is that the state of the nation in that part is really difficult, and I absolutely agree there, but I think it was high time to start discussing marriage as a community of men and women, that the civil initiative did what perhaps the Croatian Parliament and politics should have done before, that attention should have been drawn to the problem you were talking about and that surely this initiative and this debate and these amendments to the Constitution that I hope will have, will not negatively affect that trend that there will be more single and single. I even believe that this debate will have a positive impact and that it will certainly in some way popularise the notion of marriage between a man and a woman, which means that there will be positive trends in which you have expressed doubts in this part. So I think this would all be expensive if in a positive direction it were to move, if it could be talked about the family, the marriage of a man and a woman, that it's not at all negative, that it's always positive and that it can always have a positive impact on the state of society if we want to build a society based on marriage, as you said, based on family.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55531	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Pupovci, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55532	Dear colleague Hrg, I would, of course, very much like you to be right, but I'll say it one more time, I'm not convinced of that. I am not convinced because, among other things, not only because of the facts but also because those who advocate this initiative or who are behind those who lead this initiative, we have not heard so far that there are neither paid salaries nor lost jobs, nor have we heard them talk about why young people don't get married, why so many divorces and why it's such a weak natural growth. We haven't heard them talk about corruption, we haven't heard them talk about the ineffectiveness of power, we've only heard them talk about things that are things sacraments, but that's all we have to do in accordance with our ability to believe, but that's not the place in the Constitution. It's a place in other values that each of us needs to share.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55533	Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55534	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pupovac, so first I would tell you only one thing, and this is the Constitutional Court should not have said anything about these 101 votes etc. Because the Constitution is very clear here. There are two forms of decision-making, this one which is the path that has been chosen, and that is the people's constitutional referendum where the matter is clear and where we do not have the need for 101 hands here in the Parliament etc. And others when the Parliament comes from an incentive to change the Constitution where it is, of course, necessary. So that's two different things. And unfortunately, it is true, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system was wrong, the Constitutional Court then reminded him of it, and there is a problem that nothing is happening now, and there should be no potential problems. In part, I agree with what you said and I think it is really a big problem for Croatia that the number of families with children in time, say, between the two lists fell by as much as 50 thousand, that out of 867 thousand families with children, half of them had only one child, that only every nine families had more than two children, that the number of children was reduced, that women are now, during a fertile age, about an average of 1.4 children, and 50 years ago they were 2.2 children, which provided at least the time the survival of numbers, etc., that in Croatia, there are a huge number of couples without children, almost 30% of families, that as many as 45% of the population are single. It's all true and it's true, but it's your question that you asked, but maybe not everyone wanted to hear it, and that's what this government has done to change it. What was made to encourage the economy, to actually what you said, I quote you, an inefficient power about it is done concretely. How to hire these young people, how to help them, how to stimulate them to have more children with concrete financial moves. It's done unfortunately exactly the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55535	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55536	Dear colleague Reiner, I cannot agree with the data that you have provided and that have partially expanded the data that I myself have expressed, which means that we share the same sense of responsibility and that we are aware of it. What I cannot agree with you is that it can only be attributed to this authority and its incomplete two years of rule. The data we both presented related to the period from 2007-2011, therefore this trend has started and this trend is unfortunately not just four years, this trend is going on significantly, significantly longer. We lose, and if that loss could change by such a provision, it would make sense. If we were to get exhausted about what it takes to make these losses stop, it would make sense, but this kind of debate doesn't make any sense, unfortunately with this we're not going to change, with this we're just distracting ourselves from what you saw as problems. And I'm calling for us to get back to it. And as for the Committee on the Constitution, the Committee on the Constitution has been brought into a difficult situation as well as Parliament and we are aware of that. It may be simpler for you, but when we talk about the ruling majority, it is absolutely not easy for us in this situation because we are aware that the referendum and the people's will shown in the referendum is binding, but at the same time we are aware that this people's will must be confirmed by the vote in the Parliament. It must be confirmed because it must enter the text of the Constitution. I'm sorry, we had a referendum for the European Union, so someone didn't go to the State Administration Office in the City of Zagreb after that, and they said sign it up, but came to the Croatian Parliament and the MPs in the Croatian Parliament were supposed to vote on it and they voted on everyone who is now sitting in the European Parliament the same thing that was against which it was, of course, legitimate because there are a lot of them from both England and other countries. But I just want to tell you that in our case it doesn't have to be just one, it can be 101 that will be against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55537	Thank you. Next replica Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55538	Dear Pupovac, it is sad, I would also say the tragic truth that you mentioned that there is no concern behind this about the problems of modern marriage that are great. You've brought out data that's worrying and should be the focus of our attention. The truth is that behind this lies only ideological scarcity, politicization of everything that exists, and that is the worst that can happen to all of us. When the problems that really exist are ideologied and turned into something that has nothing to do with trying to solve the problem that we're talking about, and unfortunately that happens with rhetoric that the other side, there are always two sides. The other one, you're ideologies, not us. And I'm really asking you to discuss something that's notorious. At the same time, it is clear to everyone that we are also entering human freedoms for those who don't think like us or like you or as one of us, that we are touching some minority rights. And the truth is, we're not just stopping here for marriage. Today in Croatia, my dear friends and colleagues are all minority rights threatened by our grief because we are the branch that should prevent it, just us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55539	Thank you. Come in, buddy Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55540	Dear colleague Jurevic, there is only one thing I would like to add to what you have said. Those who are launching this initiative, and especially those who support it, I don't mean our HDZ colleagues. It's a different kind of story, but I mean institutions in this country that are of a non-political nature. We haven't heard them talk about the inhumane nature of capitalists and capitalist exploiters today in this country that make it impossible for people to have a normal life, a normal profit, to have a normal opportunity to start a marriage. We have not heard them speak against those who have destroyed the assumption that people can have in their midst a normal opportunity to start marriages. No, we only heard them talking about the past, the alleged communists who rule in Croatia, the alleged communists who sit in the Croatian Parliament and who want to hold the hostages of the situation that is anti-national. And those who produce this condition, new owners, new people who have money and power about them are not hearing a single word because it's probably important to be in good relationships with them. But seducing the poor and stupiding the people is of course always good and always good for those same capitalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55541	Thank you. Comrade Shucker, please not from the bench. Next replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55542	... You might as well say in the name of those who organized this whole thing, even cooked it up. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Most people who have no love and whose command of love is one of the most difficult commands do so. So not only is the right to love what we seek, but something and more is sought, the command of love. These are many who live still in that old vow of eye, tooth for tooth, but not in this new vow of forgiveness, tolerance, love, friendship.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55543	Thank you. Next replica of Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55544	Thank you very much. My colleague Pupovac has rightly mentioned once again everything we have been together, so over the past years we have worked to complete the negotiations and become 28 members of the EU. A lot of good work. Today is not very popular to say, but I insist, because I think that the participation of the then majority and the support of the government that had in Parliament, so with all minority MPs, was one of the important elements in the fact that we have completed the negotiations and that we have entered the EU not only because of the work we have done. One of the laws that we passed during this process in 2008 was the law on the prevention of discrimination. It was a law that reminds her of all colleagues and colleagues was one of the criteria for, therefore, one of the criteria for opening Chapter IX. If we hadn't brought it in, we wouldn't have been able to open the chapter and not be a member of the EU today. The way things are going, we're going to get to the point where as Parliament, we're actually going to suspend the law that's been passed here. And that's why it's important and I'm glad that you're changing your opinion that you're on the verge of a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of this issue because tomorrow and I'm very serious about it, I'm not being ironic in any way, I'm not serious about it, and I'm saying it can happen to launch some next initiative on the basis of the same definition, but a little bit done, that marriage is a lifelong community of one man and one woman. It is therefore important for the Constitutional Court to give a word in this case in order to have a clear legal framework for all future initiatives and ultimately for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55545	Thank you. Come in, buddy Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55546	Well, dear fellow Kosor, I highly appreciate that you have visited the period during which we have collaborated with your party and my party today on matters of interest for the Republic of Croatia. That cooperation is... Since '96. And '97. years of peaceful reintegration and under the leadership of then-President Tudjman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And from that time until recently, this development was going in the progressive sense of that word. And it was seen in the 2004 and 2007 coalition, respectively, in 2008. And what worries us is that the HDZ is giving up this policy and returning to the period before that and reminding us of a period that is actually going towards the early 1990s. It's afraid I'm dangerous to the Republic of Croatia. As far as HDZ is concerned, it is not my place to appreciate it, but for Croatia, it is dangerous. These initiatives, which are heard to come or are announced or are being taken, which can already be said to be contrary to the Constitution and to the Constitutional Law, are merely a confirmation of that. And for this reason, it is really important that all institutions in the Republic of Croatia say their word about what is happening because the country is headed towards a constitutional crisis. And my appeal would be especially respected colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, so don't be in a position where the Socialist Alliance was against the party and that means you have a party above you, like some institutions in this country and some groups in this country have become institutions above you and you're just doing their political will. With all due respect to the Church, the Church is not a party, and you are not her Socialist Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55547	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm not going to engage with you fellow Pupovac in these really ideological things you always go with a certain argument, statistics, and then you go in a completely different direction. But I, as a representative from the 2nd constituency, noticed, and that's why I volunteered for the replica, where you cited the cities of Bjelovar as a less developed city. I'm keeping it incorrect. Bjelovar is a well-developed city with exceptional potentials, only in power to enable these potentials to be activated. But it is true that Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County has certainly been wronged because of the disastrous relationship towards the village, according to agriculture which is one of the feathers of agriculture and livestock farming, and in that part certainly great damage has been done. But you were talking in that section about those statistics and natural growth, so it's absolutely what you said. But I would like to remind you that only that decision during the 2002 government on the reduction of maternity benefits and maternity leave is a very large number of born after that all statistics confirmed it. And then, of course, teaching about this economic part and the problems that young people face, these 350,000 unemployed talk enough. But I want to say, then, you have to show in practice and in action how these young people should be treated. And here's a specific case. It is now the proposal for the House Savings Act and the state incentive of housing savings, meaning that state incentives for housing are lifted. Of course, smaller loans, the possibility of living care for these young people. I expect your active voice, too, in that case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55549	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55550	First of all, as far as fellow Milinkovic is concerned, the issue of maternity benefits regarding tax exemptions in the purchase of the first property is good questions. And you will always have an interlocutor in the debate on this issue and these are real questions. But what we're discussing today is not really a question, and you're going to have a hard time getting him in touch with these two questions, unfortunately. And as for Bjelovar, Bjelovar is a beautiful city and has managed to restore himself to a significant extent as Ogulin has succeeded. Unfortunately, many others have failed. But Bjelovar is due to the fact that there is nothing in it that exists in Varazdin and Varazdin County, unfortunately in the category of undeveloped area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55551	Thank you. Next replica, Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go, fellow Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55552	Thank you. You are persistently repeating your claim whether or not you truly believe in it that a decision in a constitutional referendum creates a tension between the will of the people's will expressed at the referendum and the will of the representative body. So do you ignore that all 13 constitutional experts of the heads of the constitutional law department of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek and the Constitutional Court have made it clear that the decision in the constitutional referendum is binding on both the Croatian Parliament and that after the referendum gives a positive vote for the change in the referendum issue that the change of the Constitution is currently being made? So, you and your position are opposed to the position of all constitutional experts, contrary to the Constitutional Court. You're really in a very unequal position. I congratulate you to fight hard, I won't say it's a battle with the windmills, and in which you are at stake in this unequal battle it's hard to say but I think you should be congratulated on a vain struggle.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55553	Thank you. Answer me, Pupovac fellow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55554	First of all, I'd like to say that I like the fact that the esteemed representative Shakespeare keeps repeating the word persistently. And that's one handsome figure, and of course I don't mind, like I said, I like it. And as far as this question is concerned, neither your position nor the position of 14 constitutional experts, or university professors, I do not dispute. What is only controversial for me is that it will come into collage with the free mandates of MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution. I gave you an example of a referendum that went smoothly with only one vote against, so MP Ruža Tomasic felt that she was a free representative who could resist the people's will in the referendum. And she can say that she disagrees with her and that she doesn't accept her. And what, my question to you and my question to the public, what if there are so many MPs and MPs here who can show a conflict between this people's will and the people's will present here in representative democracy? Yes, there is no doubt, there is no doubt that our mandate in this regard is not binding. And there's a difference in interpretation between you and us, between you and me, and there's a difference in this whole debate that we have. And that's why we felt it was necessary to find the best solution to keep that conflict from happening. The Constitutional Court can be one of the distances, he hasn't called about it, he answered only in one segment and unfortunately in the second segment he hasn't given an answer yet. Our point, my point is that we should remind him to answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55555	Thank you. And the last replica Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55556	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pupovac, you said that there were two wills on the trail that Mr. Shacks discussed and my replica. There is no question of two wills because there can be 5 million wills in Croatia, in a regulated rule of law, it is known who decides on a matter on the agenda. If the Constitutional Court said it was a nation and he said, it's over, we don't have in Parliament what or one or what's happened. The SDP can prevent it, if I wanted to be bad I could doubt Pejo Grbin if he had done it this way in agreement with the Constitutional Court and now you Mr. Pupovac, why should I trust you both and the coat of arms. That he made this phalling some sort of, when he rewinded, played the will of the people. But I'm not that bad, but I'll tell you when it would have happened in the House then the SDP Party of Democratic Change and the Socialist Party, the Democratic Change Party would have turned into a party of democratic fraud and a coup would have taken place like I said 14 days ago, so the president interrupted me. And what would be a coup if it was the will of the people, the constitution was derivated, the will of the people was derivated, which would be a coup without an army. And then everything has its beginning and its end. And every career and every idea and every party and every term of office. That's then you know what it is. There's no constitutional crisis, but it's a coup. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55557	Thank you. Please not from the bench. Come in, buddy Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55558	So I think to my colleague Marasovic, of course, that it's not a coup, it's the elements of a constitutional legal crisis that we can enter. This debate is some kind of coup because we're strangling people with something that isn't relevant and not what we should be. And in that sense, it's a coup. And this initiative is some kind of coup, and what we're doing is kind of a coup. Because we're drowning and then we're adding to this. And as for these questions about possible manipulation, it is absolutely necessary to avoid any possible thought of being manipulated. That, of course, could be. The Constitutional Court also knew how to serve such purposes in the past political majority. But here as you can see is a sharp avoid any kind of putting in a position of manipulation. And maybe if you wanted to agree to that, maybe it would be different. But as far as I understand things and the logic of the ruling majority's behaviour, she doesn't want to put herself or the Constitutional Court in that position. But there is no doubt that the Constitutional Court will have to say as it has self-initiatively told the Parliament you cannot dispute the will expressed in the referendum. At the same time, they will have to say what happens if MPs in the Croatian Parliament see a constitutional issue as inconsistencies with the Croatian Constitution. And if for reasons of my understanding of the Constitution and their political consciences say I won't raise my hand to it. And that should be avoided, that danger should be removed. And that's why this debate was here today. And that's why we're working so hard on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55559	Thank you. I'm determining a break. We'll be back to work at 3:00. It's 13:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55560	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the beginning, speaking on behalf of the club, they can declare that the SDP club will support the decision to call a state referendum that is in accordance with the provisions of Article 60 of the Croatian Parliament. Rules of Procedure delivered by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. For this, there are two reasons, i.e. a number of reasons that could be classified and which I could classify in two categories. The first one is the one that's a normative nature. In fact, whoever in politics keeps to himself and whose policy is respect for the law and the Constitution, and not its ignorance, must respect such a decision. The second about content itself. Namely, a government that is sure of itself is not afraid of its citizens. We are not in conflict with the citizens, but it is equally our duty to speak the truth on every occasion. We will all agree that democracy and human rights are very fragile plants, that they are constantly in danger and that they are constantly to be cherished. We will also agree that there are many democratic constitutions around the world, that many rights in these constitutions are recorded and defined, but that unfortunately there are often few democratic practices. That's why we need more tolerance. With the right of many here today, by discussing this subject, they spoke precisely in the name of Christian values, but it gives us the right here to claim that intolerance is false religion. There are no shortages in many debates, especially when such discussions are on the agenda, large humanistic statements of dignity of every person, human rights, family rights, marriage, but often lacks people, ideas, and most of all procedures that do so in words and deeds every day and in every place. Unfortunately today, we have also had the opportunity to hear those who try to scare people with their false security, try to scare the citizens, and encourage themselves. Why do they do this, primarily because of the deficits of their own policy, but also because of the deficits of the political space provided to them for manipulation. In fact, it is perfectly clear that the will of a large number of signatories is respected, in any case enough to call a referendum, as it was a few years ago but then that will was not respected. So the question arises, but it is not a question that I ask here even to us, there is someone who was in charge of caring about it, but then nearly 800 thousand people and their signatures were not worth as much as these 700 and 760, but it is a topic that we will surely have to open in the Croatian Parliament since we, I repeat, are legislators and constitutionalists. That's when it was manipulated, the organizers manipulated those voices. They're not the owners of those votes, those signatures. No one can collect those signatures, we don't know whose money, now it's not the subject, voices are collected, no one has any more, he's not the owner of those, he was just the means, one medium that made it possible, so he made it easier to collect those signatures. And it's obvious to some, not even us, some others who should take care of it obviously don't get it, but we're fighting for their independence. Now what you should say about being the thing itself. You see, we can't talk about what's been done and suggested not to talk about motivation, although motivation doesn't have to be important. But here motivation is important, and it is more motivation to harm one another than to protect others, and then when you go into one illogicality, and our people have long ago forged the saying "whoever digs another pit, falls into it itself". So out of this intense tendency to elevate marriage, that is, the definition of marriage because we already have the mention of marriage in our Constitution, perfectly enough for every smart enough and clear enough. So from this tendency to create a new definition of marriage because it is now a new definition of marriage, to raise it to a constitutional level. What happened? That the marriage from such a position that we have in the Family Law has been demoted. How? Nice. The definition of marriage in all laws according to all statutes is a community of men and women laid down by law. He's here now, because we need the law. The law can be changed, so we'll drop the law. Well, you see what happened in that pursuit when you want to be more pope than pope. It came to pass that marriage was even with an out - of - wedlock, or marriage community, that neither a parent nor a priest needed that marriage. Is that what the citizens wanted? They're citizens because of this scam. Well, we should have, too, given that the discussions began to take place from an ideological point of view that we had just forgotten to read the referendum issue. A community of men and women – is that enough for marriage? It's not. Will those who have fallen asleep as people living out of wedlock in the morning without their will wake up in marriage. And even harder after that. If marriage is just a union of men and women, there's a question that women and men ask nicely. Do those who are related in blood, do those who are related to the Tabun? Is that what they're trying to get us into? And you're all going to say we're not for that, but we're now asking that it goes like that, to offer it to the citizens as a referendum issue. I repeat, marriage is now reduced to its meaning, it is reduced to a marriage union that is only one of the components of marriage. Because what does the law say? The law of our Family Law states in its article 5 that marriage is a legal arrangement for the life of a woman and a man, and the following article immediately discusses marriage. If you look at the canonical right a little bit, which, given the contracts signed by Croatia with the Holy Table, is with the Vatican on legal issues that regulate the issue of marriage, or marriage. So that's where we're talking about closing. Marriage is concluded, and the second is that in a marriage itself as its content component lives together. After all, how many marriages are there where there is no marriage union? These people can't conclude another marriage, they have to divorce. So this was clearly not what was being thought about, and this was to be considered. And please, I was supposed to discuss this here and look for answers to these questions as well. Instead of revealing such issues, they are still covered, knowingly quoting the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights and the UN Convention on Human Rights. So the European Convention on Human Rights, as we heard today's definition in Article 12, says this: "From the moment they become capable of marriage, men and women have the right to marry and start a family." Those who quoted it, it was fellow Shakespeare who put the point here. What doesn't suit him, then it's kind of a falsification of the European Charter. And the definition goes further according to national laws. Therefore, each such definition requires legislation as well. But our Constitution abounds in many examples when something defines a certain right in principle gives it a later debate. You will see this in almost every other article that speaks, and it says these rights will be further regulated by law. And now we're throwing the law out here as something completely unnecessary that we consider inappropriate. After all, the whole situation is being saved by the current provision that speaks in the Constitution, which continues to exist, so I think smart judges will certainly do so in order to avoid all these illogicalities if there is a passage of such a referendum, that is, a referendum issue, and that is to remind me of what the Constitution says that marriage is just regulated and closer to mark, determines in the law itself, as it did afterwards our Family Law. So, all those who have spent a lot of effort to confuse people in just such a difficult time that we all bear now, a very difficult time, when some have been, when they've been able to fight to get as much as possible, and the more benefits from the state and the resources that belong to the people and the citizens so far, the people are fighting for the naked life, and then they still need to serve these things. However, it is our task to expose such hypocrisy. We need dialogue, we need every person's dignity, the right to vary. And that right to diversity involves love that cannot be shared and actually does not have such or such love. All love is equal. But unfortunately, the basic problem with our modern families is that it's just that in this race, and also what imposes on them is a modern world and a modern way of life and it's actually a new way of living where there's little solidarity, where there's little sense for others, where all competences, where everything is to be the first because if you're not the first then you're the last, where there's first self-love and self-esteem and not any restraint. So here's the end of my presentation on behalf of the SDP club, and I want to finally say that we also need on all occasions and troubles much more love, less hate because love is too little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55562	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected colleague Ilija Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55563	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, I would like to conclude that the esteemed colleague Ingrid has, therefore, laminated more the contents of the referendum issue than the very decision that we are discussing here today. I will mention that on the Committee on the Constitution, we have had some comments on the decision to call the state referendum, and that text has not been responded, it is in this form, regardless of the observations made, we have heard separate views from Mr Lesar, therefore, such a decision has also come to the Office of Law. We are today discussing the same decision in an unambiguous form and unrecognized objections to Article 1 of the Constitutional Court, Article 3(4) of that decision and the Legislative Committee, therefore in a completely identical form, did not fully accept this unambiguous decision, although the Constitutional Court only two days before the debate on the Committee on Legislatives, so on 28th and 30th, we had a session of the Committee on Legislatives, told its court, issued a warning and just referred to Article 1 and Article 3(4) of the decision which we today seem to be debated in unchanged form because it is not included, it is not included in that decision, we do not have what the Constitutional Court has warned that should be amended. We'll have a session of the Constitutional Committee tomorrow. I don't know if we're going to be able to get a cleanup tomorrow, so it's in line with the Constitutional Court's warning because we have to vote the day after tomorrow and now I wonder what it is? Is it about the decision that we received incomplete in relation to the opinion of the Constitutional Court or the corrected decision that the Constitutional Court has seriously warned that there are certain constitutional provisions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55564	Time. Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55565	I understand fellow your position, you always see, although the procedures are open, you always see some cool games. I'll tell you again, don't measure with your own elbow. Look at the jurisdiction of the Constitution, and I understand perfectly what the Constitutional Court has said. And so after the citizens say, after the referendum, that's this House, we're like most people, so you all have to respect it. And a point. There's nothing else. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system in Article 60 therefore initiates the procedure, decides exactly on the calling of a referendum and prepares a proposal for appropriate acts. Therefore, there is no fear. What are you guys even discussing here right now? Again, even though we've all been told again about this, about some of them, I'm also allowing you to possibly be in some doubt because it's true that there are two kinds of procedures but there's only one outcome here. And there's no fear about it. And what you're saying is that I spoke more about the content of the referendum issue itself, yes. It's our role to tell the truth when we like it or not. It's our duty to tell people the truth. But yours may be the biggest trouble with people now being ready for the truth, they're sick of those candy on their empty stomachs that just made them weak. They are bound and willing to accept the truth. And that's our greatest victory.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55566	Second replica, Vice President of the House, Honorable Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55567	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Antičević-Marinović, before you made one claim that I think must be reacted to because you said that this whole initiative was made for a purpose not to be used but to be damaged by someone else. That's certainly not true, but I think exactly what I was doing earlier today during the morning said that my belief that this initiative actually came out of fear that by making the changes that we have repeatedly witnessed the law actually what is in the law would simply be analyzed, quickly changed, etc. and that it was actually a motive to bring it into the Constitution after all, where it could be much harder to change. What I absolutely agree with you, however, is that we need a lot more love, that we need the right to vary, that we need to cultivate dialogue, but unfortunately here we have just witnessed different approaches to it today, from qualifications of dirty movement and beyond. And I think it'd be great if we all really did it. However, when you say no such and such love, I can agree with you but the law does define some things. So, for example, a brother and sister can love and want to get married and yet the law does not allow them to do so. There can be love, honest love between, say, close relatives. Still, the law doesn't allow it. Therefore, some things still have to be regulated by law and love is not exactly legally unlimited in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55568	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55569	My colleague, I agree with you all, look at what you say the Constitution will allow. I just don't agree that it's you, that you do it out of fear, and that maybe some of them did it out of fear. ... I can also cheat on that motive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But he does speak, and the work is that marriage is a community of men and women. So I'm asking you, what man is he marrying? Are you father and daughter? Is it mother and son? Are you siblings? Well, that's a definition that you support to vote in a referendum that marriage is a community of men and women. And we call marriage a union of men and women governed by the law that are men and women. They must not be related to blood to a certain degree. They must be of age, they must have the will and must conclude this marriage before the state, before God, or before the people. And you don't need anything of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55570	Third replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Anticevic is good that you also mention tolerance and respect I would say more courage, consistency when we talk about us who work in political space, consistency to represent always the same views. But when we talk about the Constitution and constitutional changes, I think it would be very important for all the lawyers in this assembly to be actively involved in the debate. So we would like to discuss what is the measure of things and this is a proposal to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to a referendum. The constitution is the law of all laws, the greatest and highest law. And, of course, I agree here, too, with everything that is generally prescribed by the Constitution, that is being discussed by the laws. Thus, the aforementioned Law already on the prevention of discrimination that we have brought here, as I remember it unanimously, so it is the development of the Constitution, the fundamental values of the Republic of Croatia, in particular Article 14 but certainly Articles 3 and 2. So again, I warn you about article 32 that speaks about marriage, so we need to look at the Constitution when we talk about the Constitution and the amendments to the Constitution and constitutional values, all articles of the Constitution, and then the article 62 that says once again: "Marriage and legal relations in marriage and the extramarital community and family are governed by the law.". So when the Constitution changes in the referendum, I, in all likelihood, see with regard to both the turnout and the provisions on the referendum that it will be so, then we will have to concentrate on other articles of the Constitution. Even on this article we're going to have to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55572	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55573	I absolutely agree with my colleague that we should look at him completely. In this situation, too, if we pass such a referendum, namely this referendum, we are truly saved by Article 62(2), which says marriage and legal relations in marriage, the extramarital community, the family is determined by law. Otherwise we'd have a crazy and schizophrenic situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55574	And the last replica, the esteemed Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55575	You colleagues have set up a dilemma if I understand correctly whether the definition that marriage is a community between a woman and a man, is it actually a reductionist, does it reduce a much more complicated relationship to such a definition that then, from which this and that, you have listed some absurd situations possible. So there's a lot of conversations, a lot of theories, and a lot of things are usually written about marriage and its essence whether it's an economic community, an interesting community and what you've apostrophe of the love community. Unfortunately, it seems to me that this initiative is, in an unfortunate way, demystifying that it is, unfortunately, said, that the institution of marriage wants to be instrumentalised, reduced and turned into a political community. It's the biggest tragedy. And the community of love of this or that kind of community, we eventually striped it on a mere attempt to instrumentsise this very delicate issue for political purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55576	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55577	You're absolutely right, and I agree with this that there is essentially an instrumentalization because we had this question perfectly well solved without any danger of anything happening here. And whenever something is instrumentalized, it's necessarily degraded. And marriage is demoted by this, it's reduced to the community itself without those necessary attributes. I repeat, marriage and life together are required under the law. Even living together at a certain point doesn't have to exist but there is what has been concluded in front of the church bodies or in front of the mother. And the second question is, you know, what someone ignores now, given the contract with the Holy See and the Mothermaker, so they only conclude church marriage with a big pomp and then under the roof, they go after the state authorities to get a divorce. Maybe that's what you should say, so you should go get a divorce where you got married.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55578	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55579	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia speaks of all having rights and freedoms regardless of their various characteristics and between the ines and political or other beliefs, social position or other characteristics. And that everyone before the law is equal. Therefore, this high provision of the highest act of the Republic of Croatia should be handled with great caution as different anti-constitutional situations can then be born. Looking at the superficial declaration of marriage as a community of women and men in the Constitution, it may not be a problem if that high definition in this highest act could then be used to convert various types of inequality to this high act into a very concrete discrimination and disrespect, i.e. a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the referendum, it is very delicate to address the issues that go into minorities through the referendum, because the majority in such a way with the highest democratic legitimacy can challenge the fundamental principles of the Constitution and the fundamental principles on which modern democratic society rests because everyone is in some aspect of minorities. The largest known minority in Croatia and the world, the most visible minority are men. Thus, theoretically, it is mathematically possible for women to carry out a referendum in which they will challenge the rights of men or impose some obligations on them, such as the mandatory ironing of shirts, which may not be so bad, but the question is how would that constitutional provision be implemented. If this example in some way resembles cartoons, there are other examples of possible endangerment of minorities not as far away and cartoon as this, such as a referendum that can be organised from one part of the country against another part of the country, the southerners against the northerners or vice versa, which, in the context of the regional division of Croatia, is not so far away. So one part of Croatia can go to a referendum and dissipate the other part of Croatia, and this process opens up such opportunities. And there could be other divisions within society, such as the division of the rich and the poor, so that the rich could organise a referendum against the rights of the poor. However, given the number of poor people in Croatia and the subject and quality that we are dealing with this issue will not happen but the poor may be able to go to a referendum against the rich and, of course, deform some defined political and social relations. And this is, of course, only a theoretical possibility, but the incurring of minority rights, those classic minorities based on faith, nation, sexual orientation, political belief, which the laws and constitution of the Republic of Croatia speak of, these are very current and very delicate topics of possible threat to minority rights, and therefore, with this institute should be very careful. When we talk about this particular initiative of the Family Association, of course, that the citizen, and even the citizens, have the right to freely express their position, there is no dispute about it. They are also allowed to do so by the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but their free expression of the stance turns with a large number of citizens into a democratic force with high democratic legitimacy. You have, on the one hand, a very high democratic legitimacy, and on the other hand quite optional, possibly, the express will of a citizen whom it is not possible to recognize in that legitimacy and come into a situation that actually no one is responsible for something that is very important. And therefore, in that port between free will and the great democratic legitimacy of an initiative, one should find someone who, based on the Constitution, should give their opinion on what is happening and unfortunately in Croatia, we do not have a clear definition of the process and procedure. There is a body whose main task concerns about the Constitution, which is called upon, has a task, has a job to monitor everything that is going on in society, and may have a reflection on the change of the Constitution, but for some reasons that we are not going to discuss here, it has not decided to give its opinion even if it is his job, more than it is the encroachment in the changes of the law and more than the interference in the work of the courts. For some reasons, this body should be spoken of in this Assembly, but perhaps not at this time, has not decided to give its position on this, giving views on some other issues completely without any request from the competent authority, which is the Croatian Parliament. So when the body decided to give its opinion on what can and cannot be done with a possible referendum decision, then it would be logical that without the request of the Croatian Parliament, it would also have an opinion on whether this issue is in line with the Constitution, because this position of the highest body on constitutional issues may even have an impact on the outcome of the referendum. That body, however, has not decided to answer. In such circumstances, of course, it is a somewhat grotesque situation in which the Croatian Parliament is expected to ask for the opinion of that body, regardless of what the body has to do to monitor the implementation of all those processes concerning the Constitution. So one situation that is absolutely not acceptable and certainly needs to happen in our further constitutional activities in a situation where this cannot and must not happen. Therefore, to make clear the procedures for the amendment of the Constitution particularly based on such a strong and powerful instrument as the referendum, and with so far-reaching consequences on the fundamental principles on which both the Croatian Constitution and Croatian democracy rest. So it's a big flaw and a big hole in which we have, and we should definitely think about filling that hole, and that this matter of referendumal plea is extremely clear and precise. As regards the very content of this initiative, i.e. the decision of the Croatian Parliament, of course, it is logical that what is written in the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, which does not stand in this decision, cannot therefore be one of the main arguments of the HDZ against it, which is that after it has been voted on in a referendum or approved, the initiative adopted to approach the amendments of the Constitution simply because the referendum issue is not, or the question in which the signatures were collected, also did not include the way in which the constitution was changed, the way in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia had not signed. Therefore, a body or a Croatian Parliament or possibly a Constitutional Court, I find it difficult to talk about, should make that change to the Constitution. It cannot be made a contribution with a request submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament. And from this fact that it is necessary afterwards to approach the amendments to the Constitution in accordance with the results of the referendum, this is cited as another argument why this decision is not good and why procedural errors have been made. Well, procedural errors would have been made if it hadn't been for this decision, because then a provision was introduced in the Constitution in a way that no one had prescribed was not the content of the referendum issue. So, it didn't go to the referendum, and someone would have to do it, which, of course, would have caused some other recommendations again. Therefore, this opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which is not part of the decision is absolutely logical in terms of how the signatures are collected and how the referendum will be called on. This is what a body must do, and of course, as we have all the policy issues, then, of course, it will, even if it is almost self-evident, become a matter of politics and political opposition. Finally, the very content of the referendum issue concerns these reasons for possible violation of the Constitution, because the referendum issue threatens the rights of one group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which deepens divisions within the company of the Club of Representatives of the HNS will be very clear against the contents of this issue and in this indication here before the Croatian Parliament, but also in the complete further course of this process of acceptance, i.e. the entry into the referendum. But because the referendum issue is supported by 680,000 citizens of this country who have the right to do so, the HNS MPs' club, respecting a high democratic legitimacy that is not disputed by the competent authorities, will support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55580	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55581	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Radosh, you mentioned the Constitutional Court. Well, here's article 87 clearly says, and I agree with you when you were talking about the fact that the Constitutional Court could, of course, have said its own opinion without any incentive. Therefore, this is articulated in Article 87, which says that the Constitutional Court oversees the constitutionality and legality of the elections, but also controls the constitutionality and legality of the state referendum. So, according to the interpretations, that's it. However, if we agree on that, then I think it would be a good idea to support the initiative to be directed to Article 95, so when a sufficient number of signatures are collected, as it clearly states here that the Croatian Parliament, which can at this point, at this stage, direct it towards the Constitutional Court. And I think it would be good if you would support it when it comes to the vote. But you've opened a very interesting topic about men and women, about most and minorities, and you're right about that. Men are minorities in Croatia as well. So she's more of a woman and that's a fact. However, the majority of women do not guarantee women equality, full equality manifested in many areas, in many fields. Women are generally less paid with the same education, have fewer pensions analoguely to it and where there are a lot of women such as in some courts, where up to 87% of women are always men's bosses. Therefore, I mention this because we still have a lot to do in order to achieve the highest values of the Croatian Constitution, the ones above all that we are all equal before the law. And as for the observation of shirts, that I think would be good but it will also never reach for men to iron themselves, not just their shirts, but that ironing and a lot of other things to iron. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55582	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55583	Well, I agree with you, ma'am, colleague Kosor, that we should apply to the Constitutional Court. The HNS supports this despite the fact that this is a ridiculous situation to create some expectation of a supernatural body whose most democratic body in the country needs to be applied for, and this body, so the Constitutional Court would, by virtue of the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court which you quoted only needed the basis of your powers not only but the task to adopt that position. It's a funny, inadmissible political game. However, I said that the Club of Representatives of the HNS believes that under such circumstances, such a request should still be made to the Constitutional Court. But I don't mind you repeating it because that thing has to be repeated multiple times. As far as women's equality is concerned, I absolutely agree with you, we have no record of how many men have ironed their shirts, but of course there are far more important issues of equality between men and women. So one of the possible questions of a referendum that would be organised by women would be to say this question to create conditions for women with the same education and working on the same jobs to have equal pay. That would be very reasonable, and it would be interesting to pass the referendum in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55584	Second replica, the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Radosh, I've been listening to your presentations, and I can tell you that you're absolutely right. I am truly sorry that when the Constitutional Court decided to show itself about the motion for a decision to call a referendum, it did not mention in any word whether the issue was constitutional, whether it was allowed or not. Basically, the Constitutional Court took its silence to the side of those, or to the effect that the issue was treated as constitutional. I hope that the Constitutional Court will listen to this debate and if I am wrong and if the question does not consider constitutional that it will also deny me. And that's why I support something else you said, it is now a huge task for us to prevent in the changes to the Constitution that are coming to us from repeating this situation as we do now. And that is, I will say to us a historical responsibility, and here I agree with my colleague Lesar, to prevent any more signings from ever being collected in Croatia and to carry out the procedure to limit human rights. And my colleague Kosor talked about it, and secondly, I think this is a fundamental lesson that we must learn from this debate today. And here I will mention the words of a great Prima Levi who said, "It happened, so it can happen again." It is our historic task to prevent this from happening for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55586	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55587	So in the business we deal with sometimes it happens that we have to calculate between different situations because there are various perceptions, we are here fighting over some political, ideological and other issues. Unfortunately, not enough specific questions often do. But as politicians, you often need to make some compromises, get into some kind of calculations. But that's why there are bodies in this country, these are different types, all kinds of judicial bodies that shouldn't have any political calculations on their own position and on their own public exposure. They are institutions, and the highest of them is, in this sense, the Constitutional Court, always obliged, regardless of the assessment of political relations, to bring their views and to do their job. I hope that if this is not the case in Croatia today, that the amendments to the Constitution will achieve these two things. That the change of the Constitution is particularly clear with the referendum, that there will be no possibility of an irregular and bad relationship in this very important procedure and of course we will define those issues that will not be possible to protect the minority as a fundamental human right defined by the Croatian Constitution by changing the referendum by either way other than the Croatian Parliament's will of course. But of course the Croatian Parliament will not do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55588	And the third line now stands the vice president of the House, the esteemed Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55589	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, Radoš, I would say, first of all, that it is entirely incorrect that you said that by entering such a principle into the Constitution to endanger any human right. That is simply not true because finally the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg said on two occasions in his judgments that this is not a human right. So this story of human rights, of course, serves for other purposes, and that's not the case here. It is true that the Constitutional Court oversees the legality of the constitutional referendum and I am convinced that the Constitutional Court thought that the issue was unconstitutional that he would say so. However, the Constitutional Court said things, yet they are not wanted to be heard and refused to act on them. He said that the decision must remove the formulation that only approaches to the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because it is constitutionally unacceptable and second, which said very clearly that it is necessary to supplement the proposal for a new point in which the constitutional amendment will be defined, which, in the event of a positive outcome, will be the referendum of Article 62. The Constitution is changed in a certain way. These two things the Constitutional Court said, it would have to be done by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, tomorrow is a session of that committee. The board would have to do so so that we could vote on it on Friday. And that's true and all the other stories we can tell the day after tomorrow won't cloud that simple truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55590	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55591	So, you Mr. Reiner don't want to read Article 14. A constitution that says that everyone in Croatia has equal rights regardless of what I was talking about, political belief, social position or other characteristics. This Law makes it impossible for a group of people who have decided to live together to have the same rights as another group of people, thus violating the Croatian Constitution, i.e. Article 14 of the Croatian Constitution. You are deaf and yet another provision I spoke very clearly of, a question, a referendum, the signatures that have been collected are not collected in a way that implements the possible text of the amendment of the Constitution itself and that is a question that someone must do. By what law does the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia put this in the jurisdiction of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system? Where is it prescribed? This court does not have that jurisdiction, of course it should be done certainly one body will do so but equally so the Croatian Parliament could prescribe it to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, there is no constitutional court right to impose on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system how they will regulate this issue without saying that the issue should be regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55592	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, the esteemed representative Josip Salapic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55593	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. These afternoon discussions are kind of calmer, kind of more cultural and can be talked about the real core of an object that is before us. We are representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and we are chosen to carry out the will of those who have chosen us. So if we represent ourselves that we think we're self-sufficient enough it will surely have a price to trust in some of the next choices that will be sooner or later. Here, most important for the HDSSB Club, we, like the Club and the Party, supported the "In the Name of the Family" initiative for several reasons. The most important reason and the first thing we have to admit and we are lawyers and lawyers by profession, some colleagues know better in our law and our Constitution there are legal gaps. If at this time any group has taken advantage of its legal option and has collected more than enough valid signatures for a referendum in the Republic of Croatia, then we as the Croatian Parliament and Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system should react immediately and not wait four months for any decision in any form, we make the formulation. We're discussing a few things today. In the morning, we were dealing with the world-wide issues of who is in favor, who is against, which is the right of the majority, which is the right of the minority, whose rights we are threatening and we need to be aware of one. This situation would not have occurred if we were not afraid in 2010 when we changed the Constitution for the outcome of the referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union. This justified fear at the time because of the road that we've been through, one of the most difficult ways that any new member of the European Union has gone through, and we've been struggling about it and our negotiating chapters, and one of the most important ones was this issue of fundamental human rights and freedom and justice chapter 23 has just been about these issues and these problems. And we, as a responsible state, as a Member State of the European Union, as a European country in the preamble to our Constitution since the late President Tudjman, stood that our path to Croatia's entry into the European Union, today the Union, then to the community, we accepted it as a country and took over those obligations. So as a responsible and European state, we have to act like one. What happened in the legal gaps for which we ourselves were to blame after a successful referendum for Croatia's entry into the European Union was successfully implemented then the ruling majority here in the Croatian Parliament should have already started if the problem existed and there were constitutional changes where the matter of the referendum would have been settled legally, formally, politically. In my opinion, the Constitutional Court should have, when it came to the question that the obligation which I am and I support the decision in the referendum is binding to be directly applied in the Croatian Constitution, should have been announced by the Constitutional Court on the question of whether the issue asked in accordance with the Croatian Constitution. This is the task of the Constitutional Court as guardian and law and as guardian of the highest legal values of the Republic of Croatia, this is referred to in Article 3. The Constitution. So it didn't happen. Now we find ourselves in doubt what to do. In our opinion today, we should only be a service to our citizens because 680,000 people in full, legally valid have collected a sufficient number of signatures and provided minimum, i.e. mandatory and minimum legal conditions for the referendum to be called. The possibility that in our law there is a local referendum on any issue raised by 50% of voters plus 1 in order for the referendum to succeed and 10 or 5 people or 6 people to decide on important issues such as this issue, it is now a burden on the legislator, parliament and those who knew that the problem would arise and did not correct it. Now we can accuse the minorities and the majority and all those who seek their rights, these rights are made possible by our Constitution and our laws, we cannot and must not flee from it. If we are opposed today under allegations, the will of so many voters and by comparing the parliamentary elections for the composition of this House that came from and the government that won the elections, on the political platform offered to our citizens, is a large number of people who can decide who will be the ruling party or group of parties in the Republic of Croatia and who can again decide whether to change the Constitution, which will be with fundamental human rights, which will be with any right and any law. We are MPs, we are chosen to respect the will of the Croatian people. And any world view, I will not personally say what I think about it, because it is our personal right to vote yes or no in the referendum, but we must respect a group of citizens, the number of signatures, an initiative that is legally and legally valid. We can't play anyone's will. According to us, the Committee on the Constitution in this Proposal for a decision to call a state referendum, we discussed this on the board, there is indeed a possibility... the need to make such a decision that, after the referendum and after the Constitutional Court's constitution, the ruling majority and the chairman of the Constitutional Committee have said in his statements that this opinion will be respected by the Court in order not to be implemented directly in the Croatian Constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether it's good or bad will judge the future. Unfortunately, the current legal rules in Croatia are such as to allow and that everything is fulfilled by law. Representatives who are in the House support the question of the referendum will vote for or against it should leave everyone on their souls, but we consider that any initiatives and proposals are not right in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. According to us, the referendum should be called for December 1st, we should ensure the conditions as responsible representatives elected by the Croatian people to implement the will of our citizens and voters in the Croatian system, and that the laws, primarily family laws and other laws that are before us, we will discuss these months, allow all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be equal in their rights. No minority should be threatened by the majority and not by the majority. If we're going to act like a responsible country with really bigger problems than this problem, then we should act like we live for the future of Croatia. No citizen, the Constitution didn't write that Christmas note to demean anyone. We wrote it to become a modern European state. Will one of us think so, whether someone as a politician... will love us or not, it should also be left to everyone. We are here to implement laws, to pass laws and to make these laws good for our citizens and for the people who, of our work and of our laws, should live in the legal frameworks that we, as politicians and advocates, bring here in the Croatian Parliament. In my view, there are other problems when it comes to families and the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, we need to make firm laws to which the Catholic Church, other groups, has been advertised, so that the family is truly protected. If we allow some to talk about the percentages of divorce, a little talk about domestic violence and violence in families where between men and women there are marriages that are falling apart because of violence, there are children who are traumatized after divorces, there are families that are destroyed, there are much bigger problems both initiatives and associations should be advertised when it comes to respecting the fundamental values of the Croatian people, which is family. And what needs to be repeated, both the former government and the current government and all of us MPs in the Croatian Parliament have taken the obligation to act as a responsible state in the context of membership in the European Union, but primarily towards their people. If at any time we are going to make some legal formulations and questions about whether someone voted on the Constitution Committee for or against, is the formulation of this or that disabling the will of those who have legally achieved their will, then we are not on the right path. Then we are jeopardizing the foundations of legal democracy. And in this case, because of the legal gaps for which the one who had the chance and the way to change them and did not, it is necessary to take a decision on the calling of a referendum. The Constitution Committee tomorrow has its session and based on the opinion of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court has called on the issue, we need, we have until Friday to respect that opinion, simply implement the referendum in the way it stands today. A referendum should be conducted in a way that the will of citizens and voters in the polls is unconditional and will enter the Croatian Constitution as a category. And in these working groups that are ahead of us on discussing referendum issues, on issues of legal gaps that exist, on the issue of deadlines, on the issue of everything that is important for some future referendum that may possibly happen in the Republic of Croatia, a different decision should be made. We are in favour of equating the percentage of voters required at local and national level, to facilitate the issue of the number of signatures needed to launch the referendum, we support this in one part and the views of the Croatian Labour Club, that the Constitutional Court is actively involved in the formulation of whether the issue is in accordance with the Constitution and in this case should be resolved in some future cases and that the referendum issue will be resolved, that there will be no longer such possibility that the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs in the Assembly in some of their discussions, in some of their opinions put above the people who chose them. In this case, we have legal possibilities under the Constitution, but we are chosen by those same people who signed it and we need to respect that will. We don't have that exit and every legal formulation against you, and that's on the trail of the Constitutional Court's decision, it's not good. And I call on everyone to be wise and competent, that what we have signed as a member of the European Union is the implementation of the directive, the decisions, the legal gains of the European Union, we are the country that has been on the hardest, the longest way to become a member of the European Union, to be responsible because we are not long-term members, we could be headbroken that for some time, for which the new problems for our country arise, because we are not acting in accordance with the commitment to legal gain, and that is something that we need to prevent. There are much bigger problems, we saw yesterday, and we heard what the European Commission's position on the deficit of the Croatian budget, about the gaps in our state budget, about what we are planning for the next three years. It's very difficult for us as a country, we live badly, the crisis is great, there are all kinds of problems. Now because of the topic I am talking about, I will not blame anyone here, we need to decide together what is best for Croatia at the moment and what are the issues and what laws are more important to the lives of those who are hard to live today, working or not working in the Republic of Croatia. That's our job. If every week we are going to go back to asking whether the right side supports this, whether the majority supports it, whether the opposition is for or against it, we are going to raise the majority to change the Constitution or not, which is a national interest, which is not, when we are going back to the past, partisan, Ustasha, when we are going to suppress any rights, we are going to drive around to protect families, minorities, that we are a country that respects national minorities, that we are a country that respects every right, and at every step and every debate in some of our fellows, there is this hatred and this dissatisfaction that shows to that same people, the same voter who may have given that representative or that party his voice. We should be honest. I said today at the stop when we were talking, if we're going to call on the heads of the Catholic church in that part, I understood it well, who I am to judge any group, there is still someone else, depending on what one of us, who believes and leaves it to everyone in fact that I choose in the country for what they will believe and how they will live in their family. We should clean in our houses, in our courtyards, and in the Croatian Parliament you represent the interests of the Croatian people, for that we are chosen. The HDSB Club therefore proposes to call a referendum because the legal conditions are met for a decision to be taken on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's position on the Committee on the Constitution, and that the Constitutional Court, if there are still legal options, and I believe that there is also a rule on the constitutionality of the issue. It will then solve all the misunderstandings and all possible political traps, so that what is the will of most people and the great number of those who have signed the initiative is not implemented. We invite everyone to responsibility and wisdom and honesty. This will be the best, and in the coming days we try to work on problems that really and in the right way torture the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There's a big job ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55594	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas. The first rises a respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55595	Thank you very much. Comrade Salapic, you mentioned as well as many changes to the 2010 Constitution that were first encouraged primarily because of the fact that we had to change the Constitution so that we could continue negotiations. If we hadn't changed the Constitution, we wouldn't have been able to continue the negotiations, and one of the topics that we agreed on, and I want to make this a special point of agreement, and in fact we introduced it into the Constitution was the referendum on elections to join the EU or the referendum. So, for having faults and having gaps, we're all to blame together. We had a lot to do after that, and we didn't, and that's a fact. And it's actually tragic that we now have a imbalance between the conditions and the framework for the state referendum and the local referendums. So, we have seen several that have been held at the local level of turnout and the fact that the inconsistency of I don't know of 8,000 citizens in the local referendum does not guarantee that it will succeed, and here in the national referendum it is truly symbolic, although of course it will not happen to three people and that the referendum will succeed. Of course this referendum will be attended by many, many more voters. So we have made many decisions together, as we have also made on the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2002, so with a great consensus but also so many times to mention, at least from me, the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, which, in the context of this debate, needs to be kept in the spotlight, because we will have to seriously consider the value of this law at all if we continue this way. He will lose absolutely and completely any meaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55596	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55597	Your Honor, it's the worst thing anyone ever forgets. I myself was a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. We have reached a consensus both on the left and right of the decision on constitutional changes which were not only a matter of referendum, but of questions and independence of the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's Council, the State Judicial Council, all in terms of meeting our obligations in Chapter XXIII. And the worst ones are when some decisions are made today, we forget the exact opposite, and when someone forgets something, when they're ashamed of their past, they don't even have a future. The most important issue here is to respect the will of a large number of voters, citizens who have signed the initiative. That there is a legal gap here we have agreed, so this Working Group for Change Constitution will change that for the future because it really is not good no matter which one of us personally supports the initiative or not. It is everyone's right, but to collect a sufficient number of signatures, and to get 10 people to the elections and to decide on the change of the Croatian Constitution, that already raises the legitimacy of that decision in a legal sense. It's this legal void that has a great depth and that will really in this case and there were no other cases to do it to show what's not good. And we should agree on this matter by consensus and agree not only on the gravity and importance of this issue that we are talking about today but on any future cases that will arise. I am surprised that some who were members of the same Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, are today speaking and speaking completely differently. That's not good. And I'm sure those who follow it, and follow people, follow those who need to know that they'll know that they'll be worth it in two years in the elections that are coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55598	Now we're going to hear the replica of House Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Salapic, I agree with the great majority of what you have said and what I would just like to say is what I have said before, my deep conviction that the Constitutional Court is, of course, taking care of its obligations related to Article 125, related to Articles 87 and 89. The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court when it came to this procedure-related warning, surely my deep belief that he would have thought it was an unconstitutional measure of things made it clear. However, he made it clear what was wrong, and the procedure was wrong and he pointed to it. The other problem is what you said, unfortunately it will not be heard and will not be done. There's time, tomorrow you can do it, and I hope it's still going to happen. However, it may be important this time to mention something that you did not say in the saying, but some said it remained to hang perhaps in the air, which is the question that it may have been a referendum question for people who signed it was wrongly formulated or incorrectly formulated, so as not to know what they were signing, etc. There the Constitutional Court was very clear and he made it clear. In the absence of any precise rules on the content and form of a referendum issue which proposes to amend the Constitution as well as because of the lack of existing reference practice of an example which would refer to the way such a question should be developed when it comes to amending the Constitution to the concrete legislators of the referendum on the definition of marriage in this regard, no subsequent objections should be raised. It's very clear crystal, and there's no further discussion for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55600	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55601	Your Honor, Agent Reiner, this is where I fully agree. I deeply hope that there will be no intervention of the Constitutional Court after this decision has been implemented, and God forbid there is a referendum that will have the outcome of what he will have, and that there will be a question of whether or not this issue is constitutionally in line with the Constitution. I think that because of the large number of citizens who signed the initiative, we should not have waited four months, that, as a Parliament and Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, we had the opportunity to include the Constitutional Court to remove any legal ambiguity. Then we'd be safe, time would be cut short by unnecessary debates, time would be shortened by some conflicts that were not needed this morning and today. I think we'd do our job more honestly and efficiently. Because in the end, it is now said that after the referendum on the launch of constitutional changes, we could save 47 million kunas and assume responsibility to raise the two-thirds majority so that the Croatian constitution can be changed in such a way as to avoid and torment the voters to go to the polls. But we would save huge money where we could invest it further. But when it comes to democracy, regardless of the crisis, it is necessary to find the means to do so in the way the law and the Constitution prescribes. But if we had mechanisms as representatives and club representatives and parties in the Parliament, we were and we could have avoided all these problems and legal misunderstandings. Well, I deeply hope that the Constitutional Court in these issues in which it has already declared itself that there will be no need to advertise after the referendum, but I am still saying there is a legal space for the Committee on the Constitution to resolve all legal misunderstandings and to implement this referendum in a manner consistent with the highest legal values of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55602	Third and last replica, respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Salapic, you have, speaking on behalf of the HDSSB club, expressed very tolerated tones and very politely the views of your party club and your party, who, of course, differ from those of the CNS because we are two parties to quite different political programmes when it comes to this part of the policy. And you have made a contribution to putting politics within the framework of decency. Indeed, this afternoon’s debate in many ways is falling short of some of the debates that have been heard in both previous and previous synergy. You said among other things, I'll try to quote you, we're here to enforce the laws not only to create them and fix them but to implement them. And indeed law enforcement has a duty and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all institutions but this is still the highest House when it comes to laws and it is a very, very good message. I'm only interested, I really hope, but I can formulate it as a question, because you said it on behalf of the club and it has a special weight, in fact you de facto said it on behalf of your party does that mean that the HDSSB is basically behind that statement we're here to implement the laws and will the HDSSB in all situations be asked equally in principle? Because, individually, we have the right to look at every law in our own way, but the basic task of all of us, both citizens and our representatives, is that we respect the laws in principle, no matter how cute they are to someone at some point. So are you standing as a party behind the principle of respect for the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55604	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55605	Dear colleague Baranovic, I hope you're so principled with good intentions and replicated to me. So we will show our principles on these working groups for the change of the Croatian Constitution. That we are a club of representatives, us 7, a party with its political programme that will primarily respect the will of those who chose us and gave us mandates in the Croatian Parliament. That we will support the views and current parliamentary majority if they are good for Croatia, in any case we will. That we are an opposition party and that all opposition MPs should be so that in their discussions they are constructive that what is good we really support and what is not good for us not to support. I believe that the principle of politicians depends on what they will do for four years and how they will behave. You yourself said that the morning debate is completely falling away from this afternoon. And I think this is much nicer and better to discuss culturally the problems we have. But today's topic is the problem. There were other problems where you can't talk normally in the morning. And that's not good. I believe that every one of us, and we have our mandates and workbooks in the hands of those who have chosen us, we do not depend on it, and we are not here forever, that it will be recognized and shown. And some of your party's decisions are when it comes to the draft laws passed by the Government, because here's a real estate tax, so you acted as a responsible party, so you stopped it. And that's what we used to say as a representative's club. And some of the good ideas that you will have will support it, but we hope that when it comes to our HDSSB programme, let's say the issue of regionalisation of Croatia in the working groups of the Constitution Committee will support it. Because it's our common interest. If we have a common interest, and that's primarily the national interest for the Republic of Croatia, then we're thinking the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55606	I now call upon the representative of the club of the national minority Furia Radina to address the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55607	Thank you very much. This morning, in fact, the debate has shown that we are not yet clear about whether this initiative is political, whether it's secular, or whether it's an initiative that actually goes against some of the aspirations that are happening in the world today. This morning, the Church's position was mentioned, and I would say new churches on the issue. Does the Pope when he spoke about the problem answer the questions of the journalists whether he spoke, whether he meant freedom or thought it wasn't as it was said here that he wasn't, who he was, who he was, that he could decide on the issue, so the next thing I know, the people have to answer that question. It is that, in this House, a question of the meaning of this referendum has been asked. It is that a question of will has been asked, the will of the people. It is very clear that when there are 700 thousand signatures and more than 700 thousand signatures that actually no one can oppose and I think that, and I agree that if there are so many signatures that no one can object to the people's will being carried out. And as I see it now, regardless of the aspirations they have, and also where there is one part of the truth of a part of civil society that we actually appeal to the Constitution of the Court and say that there are no referendums when some fundamental human rights are violated. I see that this is where the opinion will prevail, in my opinion justifiably, to carry out this referendum. I guess we're after what Rosa Luxembourg said years ago, I don't agree with that, but I'm gonna die, I'm gonna sacrifice, or I'm gonna die to respect the opinion of people I don't agree with. It will overcome what may be most important in democracy or rather what is basic democracy is a procedure. On the other hand, we are in the middle of a matter of freedom here. Whether and who can determine that one part of the population of any country in Europe in this case of our country, in this case Croatia does not have some fundamental rights. It can tomorrow apply to any, on any subject, to any right. Of course, we from the National Minorities Club are particularly sensitive to minority rights, but there may be some fundamental rights of democracy if such parameters remain, such a model of enough people to decide a referendum on a particular issue. The crisis is ruthless, the crisis changes people's minds, the crisis often brings people who are well educated to wish for some extreme solution. Don't be surprised if one of them remains such a model of referendum, don't be surprised if one day they won't collect signatures to reduce the level of democracy that is in Croatia and that can happen. Then what are we gonna say at that point? How much Parliament will be able to decide. Don't think there's no referendum tomorrow on some issues we've overcome many decades and many years ago, the issue of divorce, the issue of abortion. And I guarantee you those questions will come to the agenda. The question of bilingualism has already been announced that it can come to the agenda. Then how will this Assembly treat it? Or the opposite when it will change, if and when it will change since I have followed well what Mrs. Kosor said before that we are all sooner or later a minority. So one day there's going to be a minority and the part that's in power now, so it's going to be in power and the part that's a minority, how it's going to apply to these issues, then the part that's a minority today, and then it's going to be political, of course, and then it's going to be the majority. Because I am a witness that such questions to those who are now a political minority did not by any chance ask when they were most because they know what that means. Because they know that as everyone, we have one problem here in Croatia and that is that whoever is in power thinks they will always be in power and if history proves, the recent history proves that it is not. So even the right center when he was in power thought he'd be in power forever and when I think you're in power and then and when you're in power and you think you'll always be in power then you think if I want something to change I'm going to change the referendum and never asked this question with a referendum and never asked a question, and now I'm going to measure things never asked a question of what marriage is. It's already settled, it's settled in family law. Those who now say, but those who want to change the question of what it is, that marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman, let the Family Law change, not because it already stands in the Family Law, no one has ever asked that question. And today, when the world is going in one more tolerated direction as far as these human rights are concerned. And the church is saying that about the Catholic Church going in a different direction. I mean, according to these questions that are being asked here today, Pope Francis looks like Che Guevara. Forgive me for many and other questions. This is where it goes the other way. Suddenly someone came to the conclusion that it should be in the Constitution that marriage was a relationship between a man and a woman who had thought of it and why, if it was never at all, it was never questioned. Was there an organized action in Croatia to define marriage differently? No, it's not. Has anyone changed the Family Law in Croatia? No, I don't. Isn't it a pre-election campaign, if it hasn't already started? 700 thousand people were told as many as it was enough for one side to come to power and we have it, only it would prove to me that it was in some way the start of an election campaign. But I'm not getting into it, it's very legitimate. One side of the political campaign, so it's her job, but it's sensitive issues. It's the world's issues. Can we allow such questions to actually be put into the political arena, or is it better to discuss these issues peacefully, discuss when you have time because these are actually philosophical issues? These are not political, day-to-day political, these are world-view issues, these are philosophical issues that simply show how society moves and in which direction society moves. The National Minorities Club is concerned about what's going on and on about what's going on with some bilingualism issues and some graphics that are now appearing on the walls, and some posters that appear in Zagreb, even in my Pula for what I'm deeply ashamed of, which talk about so-called. The family tree of Serbs, can imagine what's on those posters. When yet one part, one segment, I don't know how small he is, how small he is, how large a population he is, comes up with such an idea, then the National Minority Club is actually concerned that referendums don't discuss other issues, except about this issue here which is already quite sensitive and quite dangerous, especially when it insists without any need because there is no danger of anything else happening. And in the end, now I'm going to say my personal opinion, I'm going to use that pay phone so I don't speak again after the individual and I'm going to end up with a personal opinion. This is a matter of freedom. Marriage as far as the state is concerned is one thing, meaning the lay part, and the religious part of the view of marriage is another thing. It never happened that one religion, one religion, one church, at least we have the idea of making marriages between different sexes. Therefore, those who feel that only such a form of marriage is actually valid, a marriage between a man and a woman, always have the opportunity to make that marriage in front of a church. The state must protect the interests of all, including the interests of those we disagree with, and the interests of those who are different from us, the interests of minorities as you said. So the state is the same for everything, which means if someone decides to marry a person of the same sex, so in some countries, they have to be able to make it in front of the state. The second thing is how they'll make up, what marriages will be in front of the church. Mixing those two levels is actually unacceptable in the modern world. We conclude, the National Minorities Club will refer to this proposal differently depending on what a worldview, what a philosophical view, what an opinion, ideology and opinion and the faith of every member of our club is. Everyone will be free to vote on what they want, as they should be free to enter any kind of relationship with the state in the way it is considered desirable and how someone wants it. The family certainly won't take it if one part of the population will make a different kind of marriage, but that's my opinion. This referendum actually deals at this point with a problem that does not exist in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55608	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55609	Thank you very much. My colleague Radin, I deeply agree with you that we are discussing freedom today, the role of the state, which, of course, implies not only the respect of the Constitution but also the relationship of each of us, especially in political space towards others and different ones, so especially because we very often have an opportunity that others do not have, to express our views and then even to violate the laws, so to act contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It's good that you mentioned the referendum model again, and it wouldn't be good if anyone who starts the possible consequences that can happen because of these gaps that we have, were seen and commented with contempt, and that's what's happening today. So, what you've mentioned, we can come into a completely absurd situation of suspending democracy, the multilaterals can really come to a sense and get very legitimately collected. So, to suspend a multi-party in Croatia or to decide that there are only two parties. It is equally possible, and one of the values is also written in the Constitution years ago by a multi-party because it will be done by many. There they are, every day a new party is founded. We're going to limit it, spend a lot of money on two parties or one or not at all, but we're going to invent a new model. Death penalty. So we've long decided there's no death penalty. It's a very sensitive question, and one of our colleagues with whom I've pollemized today is that he said I'd be the first to do it. So that's a very, very sensitive question. We're going to the edge. And in the end, you said where the world was going. Yeah, look at the other day at West Point, so the first wedding So it's like a sex thing. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] And look at Germany who has legalized that parents must immediately decide on the sex of a child in one Germany at the time of birth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55610	Replication response, Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55611	So let's try to open a Facebook group that says the referendums are expensive. Mr. Cain said before, elections are expensive, elections are a very expensive thing. Democracy is actually one thing. How many roads could be made without democracy? Well, if you're looking well at dictatorships, you're doing the biggest urban effort. See also in Zagreb during one of the dictatorships is made Dolac, made Shalata etc. If not, I think there are money that would otherwise belong to democracy used for dictatorship, or used for what the people have popularally asked for. Any bad question you ask will find supporters. Politicians must be discreet and be responsible. I always thought that politicians taking for example public opinion alone would not take any positive step forward, but would always spin in the same direction. We're actually constantly populist repeating we have so many signatures, so we're going to do it. Normally, they open one door that's already open. But what's behind those doors?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55612	Second replica of the esteemed Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Radin, it seems to me that you are somewhat inconsistencies in your performance. On the one hand, you said that no one really brings the definition of marriage as defined by the Family Law, that it's a community of men and women, or as defined there. And on the other hand, if this were to be put into the Constitution, then it would be discriminating, and no one like that would question it, and even for these announcements, these amendments to this Act of Same-Sex Communities are not about marriage but about something else. Therefore, it cannot be that something is not discriminatory in the law, and it is in the Constitution. So if we're going, then there's something else. Every law is discriminatory because it always determines what it forbids and what it isn't. But then that's another problem. Therefore, we are now talking about not applying certain democratic rules that are game rules actually means suspending democracy and democratic rules in this game that exists. That's one thing. On the other hand, we're talking about someone like us, and today we're saying it's ideology here, and it's either the stupidity of the people or I don't know how, what's already going on. It should be said that certain countries, when they joined the EU, simply said in some respects, are not touched because they are of such value to those countries, but are not worth it regardless of what the EU is talking about. Therefore, there is always a right to a difference, to certain values that can be respected. And on the other hand, I think it's simply ideologies if you're not talking about church or civilian marriage here, but you're simply talking about marriage. Therefore, it is not up to anyone to take it, it is an emphasis on something else. Therefore,...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55614	Thank you, thank you very much. Time's up. The answer to the replica Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55615	Yeah, we had an interesting time, so I wanted to listen a little bit more because it's an interest, and we're finally talking about the measure of things. No one wants to suspend actually democracy and the will of the people. However, here I understand everyone will be in favour of a referendum, so no one wants to suspend anything. I wasn't inconsistencies. I just asked my next question, Comrade Tudjman. Is there anything else that exists, if we want to stress here in the Constitution why we're doing it? If something that no one else in 16 years has ever questioned and never wanted to put into the Constitution no, as if now, the Constitution is nothing but one inventory of value and we put one practically encrypted, hidden one ban inside. We say, we don't say marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman. We say marriage is just an institution of men and women. That's what we say. We should just put it as an unbreakable institution of men and women so that we can block everything else and divorces and get to what we don't want to get to because there's no marriage as a marriage. Marriage of the state, it's a contract, marriage is a contract, love is another thing. She can be married, she doesn't have to be married. Marriage is a contract, so the state has to be fair to everyone in the same way. And the Church takes care of values. And she must be just to the believers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55616	Time. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first to discuss for 10 minutes appeared the esteemed Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to highlight something that is said here, which is the fact that there is a significant difference between the tone and the style of the debate we had this morning and the debate we have now. I think it's that this morning we had an emphasis on conflicting values, worldview, and that's mostly now, and that's what we're really considering is the issue of constitutional rights and freedom of choice for each individual's way of life. There's Mr Furio Radin perfectly right, this isn't about mere legal formulation, this is about procedure, and this is about us deciding the freedom of choice for each free individual. What would be appropriate and good for the differences in the worldview would be to insist on tolerance and listening to others. Of course, when discussing this, everyone must know that they will not and cannot change the beliefs of another man. That tolerance means understanding that someone else thinks differently and tolerates that there are differences. Many have indicated this but have not consistently remained at the end of that attitude. I'd be in favour of not introducing a world-wide debate or a formulation of a light-screen into the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is a very thorough act which has many shortcomings but does not tolerate the fact that ad hoc and, in the opinion of the majority, although it has been formed, the formulations concerning individual freedom are changing. It was said here that the Constitution needed such a form of marriage to protect the institution of marriage and family. I don't think so, I think the Constitution doesn't need this kind of formulation, that it's superfluous, that the Constitution already has formulas regarding protecting family and marriage and that it's about something that's the subject of legal, not constitutional initiatives. What was said here if it were written in the Constitution then we would be sure that some future majority would not change that provision. But the consequence is already visible today and not only in this, but in every change in the Constitution is the insistence of stakeholders or some world-rents to just constitutionally guarantee their profession, special position or world-view. Such inflation will continue but will violate the balance that exists in the Constitution and will lead to the threat of what is the general catalog of human rights. That's why I don't think that's good. The second thing I want to point out is the fact, repeatedly quoted here, that we have certain shortcomings in the regulation regarding the constitutional or legislative referendum. It is also said that this is the result of a hasty and rapid decision in an effort to adapt to the current political circumstances of EU accession. Several times, Mr. Seks specifically quoted the opinion of Croatian constitutional and legal experts on the referendum initiative of the Association "In the Name of the Family". I'll cut it short, but this says "Inventory initiatives embedded in the Croatian Constitution in 2000 but the acceptance of this form of direct democracy in the Croatian Parliament was done hastily, recklessly, without considering comparative experiences." And in the next paragraph, it is even worse, it is said that the Parliament was obliged within 6 months of the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the application of the Constitution to lay down rules on the referendum. Those rules have not been laid down. The Parliament has not fulfilled its obligation. But as a result, the question is whether we can speak so patheticly and very explicitly about the will of the majority or the referendum question if the rules and procedures of the creation of that will, the formulations of that will are not clear, are not actually predetermined? I would argue that these issues become issues of constitutional-legal character and that this is how they are dealt with. This means that these questions are directed to the Constitutional Court and that it decides on them, takes a stand. Because that's the previous question, the question previously of how we and when to call a referendum. The third thing is something also mentioned here, and that is the fact that future referendums may be as missing in the process as possible could endanger the issue of human rights. Human rights are not simply a black letter on the constitutional paper. It is not done and given to people because of what is written in the Constitution but because we are born free people. Human rights do not belong to us because they are written in the Constitution but because we have them because we are free. In addition, look at this, I think it should be respected, Article 9. The European Charter of Human Rights, what does it say about marriage? It's a kind of constitution. Yes, he says the right to marry and start a family is guaranteed in accordance with national laws. So it's not a constitutional principle, it's something regulated by law. I think we should consider this very carefully. In almost that fact that we have already announced initiatives that could question human rights as to what our Constitution knows, the human rights to which we are, to respect which we have committed ourselves by accepting international conventions. And it doesn't take many quotes to see that in terms of marriage and family, freedom of choice, freedom of form, and not imposing one of the variants prevails. I would like to highlight just the next real effect of the proposed constitutional changes is to draw public attention from the real but decisive problems of society, unemployment, responsibility, authorities, poverty, economic policy and strategy. What's realistic is that today we're going to be discussing something that should be a matter of individual's free choice and not of constitutional law. That this kind of political debate is actually a distraction from other issues. The real effects of the initiative are not only the cost of how much money has been spent but primarily in distracting the attention of the entire government society, the Parliament from those issues that should be our priority, of those issues that will stop being important at the very moment of adoption or adoption of an act. What we're discussing is a declaration, not a real action. For this reason, I believe it is our duty to make a request to the Constitutional Court to manifest itself in respect of three things. First, a procedure that fits and all things need to be resolved in our legal setting of referendum conditions. To prescribe precise rules on how to implement the Constitution, how to implement the referendum, and then we can deal with the expressions of the vast majority of people, peoples and the like. Secondly, I think it is a good time for the Constitutional Court to take note of what issues, which constitutional provisions are untouchable in terms of their change in the referendum. I think that's primarily human rights issues, but besides that, some other issues and other constitutional systems know that, and some other constitutional issues can't be the subject of a plea. Are we going to have referendums on whether we are going to monetize Croatian roads, sell forests or something where we can't come up with a question about whether or not. Such questions, look under other constitutions if he knows the constitution of the referendum are not subject to the constitutional referendum. And thirdly, I think that the Constitutional Court should be considered an institution that is above politics, above the value of the debate on our worldly horizons. It should be respected and it should be repeated continuously Don't question human or other weaknesses. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] Nothing can be agreed with the Constitutional Court in advance, they will be free to decide but we should ask them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55618	The first person to answer the line was a colleague of Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of Craig's should answer more things, and I doubt that's possible in two minutes. First of all, this is a distraction from the attention of unemployment and other problems that sounds good, but it's not like that. Because the key to the problem is how to get out of this economic crisis and others, to what values to build that exit and who are the bearers of it. I think we can understand each other so I don't need to elaborate any further. On the other hand, when you say human rights. But today in the world are dominated by two dimensions of human rights, individual human rights and collective human rights. The European Charter, or Charter of the United Nations, knows collective human rights. Today in the 21st century, it's completely nothing, going for it. And therefore, we come up with that key problem that neither the Constitutional Court will solve unless it has been elaborated before and adopted in Croatian society by a consensus when the law of the majority applies and when the law of the minority is in force in respect of human rights. Because today we are aware that this is exactly the greatest space of manipulation and everything in the name of democracy. Well, then once it's worth the majority decision, the majority rights, and the second time, the minority is the one that's the key. This Constitutional Court itself will not resolve this because it is a matter on which grounds, on which values Croatian society will build, build and build its future. Therefore, it is far more complex than these now concrete manipulations related to the referendum issue. It's a clear thing. That it should be arranged but the question on which grounds and by what principles. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55620	The replica matches Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55621	I appreciate your question, Mr. Tudjman, and I have to say, unfortunately, I disagree with what you're saying. In terms of distractions, it seems to me that attention is best turned away from the real questions to the side when emotional initiatives are raised and emotional, for example, about the issue of family, marriage, and such a question. In terms of collective and individual human rights. As far as collective human rights are concerned, they are not the subject of our debate today. I agree, collective human rights were the cornerstone of our independence and independence, but in this case it's actually about individual human rights that represent one untouchable area of freedom of each individual. What we can, of course, always criticise, is that in... and respect for human rights, not all countries are equal, but the fact that an integral part of the legacy of developed civilised democratic systems is respect for individual freedoms and rights and that standards change in this respect, but not in their reduction but in increasing rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55622	Second replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55623	Thank you very much. Mr. Honorable Professor Kregar, you're in your exposure to actually light up seems to me to be in one contradiction. You said that the human rights and freedoms of the individual sui generis were, therefore, born, natural and that the Constitutional Court neither prescribed them nor could explain them, etc. Afterwards, you returned to your discussion that this is precisely why the Constitutional Court declares this proposal for a referendum in this form. So you're looking for a measure of the Constitutional Court, and in the first sentences you said that human rights and freedoms and without the Constitutional Court and without the law, sui generis are what they are. That's where I see that contradiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55624	Replication response, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55625	My dear colleague, thank you for the opportunity to remove any possibility of delusion. It's not a contradiction. The Constitutional Court will interpret the content of human rights, will not change constitutional formulations, just as the German Constitutional Court has decided that the provisions of the constitution, the German constitution concerning individual rights and freedoms are untouchable and unchangeable by constitutional decision. I would like our Constitutional Court to adopt a similar position that cannot be discussed with constitutional rights, human and citizen freedoms to decide with a referendum. That's not appropriate. We may even apply or participate in debates on the catalog of human rights in Europe or globally, but we will not change them. What is quite clear is that their source is the democratic history of civilized countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55626	Third replica, Vice President of the House Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55627	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP, I am, of course, in agreement with you that the Constitutional Court is and must remain so above the daily policy and I think he is doing his job well. What is important, however, is to say that any discussion and any intervention of the Constitutional Court about it, including what you have mentioned now, the question of what human rights are, as far as human rights are concerned, can only be applied to things that will take place in the future. We are now talking about this particular referendum. The Constitutional Court said its position on the referendum and pointed out exclusively that the problem was in the process, not in the scale of things. He didn't even mention the measure of things. If he thought the metric was wrong, I'm sure he'd say so. No one asked him about the procedure as well as the metrics, he said about the procedure, he didn't say about the measure of things, therefore he had observations about it. If we could just respect what else can be done, do it tomorrow, everything would be fine, and then stay for the future of the human rights discussion, that the Constitutional Court would eventually define it and everything. However, what is also important is that you said so, and it has been said several times in the debate, I would not want to get the impression that by accepting such a formulation in the Constitution, which I am convinced is going to have such acceptance, that in any way, some rights are taken away from someone who, when you take away something, implies that someone had some rights and then you took them away from them by some of your acts. That's just not true. It's simply not true, and I think it's important to say it clearly because then one false impression is that there were some rights that we or we would take away. That's not true. There were no human rights, nor are we taking them away, nor does it matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55628	Replication response, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55629	Dear Mr. Reiner, as far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, I think it would be good, correct and politically wise to ask the Constitutional Court to manifest itself, not to judge it according to our point of view whether he could and would not want to make a point. If it is a matter of content and constitutionality of the question, he was not asked about it, because if it is about what rights cannot be changed in a referendum way, it was not asked either, but I think it would be useful and good that such a question exists and that we judge against him and in our discussions what to do. One more thing in your presentation, I find it a good point to think about, and that's the fact that we're taking something away from someone if we put one of these formulations into the Constitution. I think the previous question is whether someone has already assured people, guaranteed them, guaranteed them. Yes, the law and my basic thesis were not to do what was unnecessary because it was already guaranteed to put as a constitutional provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55630	Next replica, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55631	Dear colleague Kregar, I fully agree that the time has come for the Constitutional Court to really reflect on which questions or which questions for today and for the future are untouchable. So what are these issues about changing the Constitution, issues of freedom and human rights, fundamental rights I think is better to say, which are untouchable. And certainly the very silence of the Constitutional Court on something that no one has asked him does not mean and cannot be interpreted as approval. So, the Constitutional Court should ask if anything has not been referred to, something to ask what the Croatian Assembly is now going back to in particular the subject is right, it has the possibility. That gives us constitutional law on the Constitutional Court and I don't see why we should miss that opportunity. But with this opportunity, let us take advantage of this very thing to encourage the Constitutional Court to finally touch all these questions that are untouchable. Because I'm not sure that, for example, incentives to collect signatures for a referendum that would be required to enter the Constitution so that taxes are no longer paid so that they don't pass. Why? I mean, people, people don't like people, it's a burden especially in such a difficult situation. Now, or part of the exception I don't know from paying the VAT. One part of the citizens, one group, one part of the economy and the fact I'm just saying for further reflection. The fact that some sensitive topics have never touched any government in Croatia since its independence. Do you know which one of them? It's a matter of abortion. We in Croatia are still implementing laws in this sense in the 1970s. So why has no one ever put it on the agenda? Because it's from that point of view and the world's view of human rights is an extremely sensitive issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55632	Time. The answer to the replica Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55633	I thank you for your support... is that the Constitutional Court has made decisions that everyone has all taken, which may have been challenged only by individuals among other things and by me. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] But I will agree with any future decision of the Constitutional Court because they are the place in which constitutional rights are decided. As far as sensitive worldly issues are concerned, I think it's a good thing that they're not turned into the subject of political decision-making or campaign-making because it's a very big question whether they can be resolved in such dynamic societies by a one-time decision, or by opening in fact continuous cycles of crises, debates and social divisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55634	Last replica Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55635	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Normally, I agree with you, Mr. Craiger. There's only one dilemma that bothers me. You said that this inventory of what is untouchable and given by birth, that it should be given to the Constitutional Court to put it together and then in the debate you repeatedly reiterated that the Constitutional Court is neutral, that we all agree with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I wouldn't want to comment on it but just tell you next. Do you think maybe we can give me too much of the Constitutional Court? We have voted here in the Constitution, we have voted here constitutional laws including the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, we have voted here on the judges of the Constitutional Court usually by agreement. Are we not able to talk about such a theme? Let us not forget that the members of the Constitutional Court are having doubts, they have made two-name decisions not questioned by individuals, but two-name decisions that I spoke of before. Let's not forget that there are those among them who became members just because we didn't want them as politicians anymore, those who became constitutional judges because there were agreements between HDZ and SDP and HNS you one of mine, me one of yours and there are judges. Should the Constitutional Court not be a place of judges, a place of politicians. What you're saying is, I agree, he's only missing the condicional. The Constitutional Court should be a place neutral of politics and the Constitutional Court should be the place where decisions are taken in accordance with the Constitution. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55636	Thank you very much. Replication response, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55637	Dear Mr. Radin, intimately I can share your skepticism and the reserve based on what was the actual political process of the election and how the quality of the constitutional judges was judged. However, what seems uncontestable to me is that it is an institution that has proved the value of its existence and which should not be from opportunity to opportunity, but according to how much we like decisions to be questioned. No one will be satisfied with all the decisions, that's quite clear. But we don't have a Constitutional Court, it's an institution because we don't have a better one in these situations that we could arbitration over. There are both powers and constitutional roles and I think enough honesty and expertise for people to justly and well in accordance with the Constitution to assess the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55638	We're continuing an individual debate. Damir Cain signed up, but he's not going to lose his right to this debate. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55639	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's something to say all day long, I listen carefully. It is my impression, and it may be asked whether the people are right, whether we are wrong to listen to the people, whether we are parliamentary representatives over the people, and what if the people do not listen to us whether the referendum will then be good or not, whether the vote will be good or not. We're predicting the next 10, 20 or maybe only 2 years. I don't think the people have made a mistake anywhere, that he has properly complied with all the rules that were set for him to come to the moment that we are discussing here today. But maybe that's not how it went. When the people's initiative started, i.e. through the Association "In the Name of the Family" it was clear that the signatures would be collected for 14 days, from 12th to 26th of May this year to more than 2,000 places throughout Croatia. At universities, in all traffic areas of the most visited locations, etc. It was clear to all of us that 375 thousand signatures must be collected within 15 days and that all adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia can be signed. When the initiative started, it was obvious that the authorities could assess it, so they wouldn't be able to collect it. Was she legitimate? It is. But after two days, when the initiative announced that there were 130 thousand signed signatures, the authorities began to think. What's next? Did something happen to us that maybe we didn't want? And that includes civic initiatives, volunteers, callings, public participation, intellectuals and athletes. We forgot the insults of some athletes, the world's jump champions. For saying all sorts of things to her from these other associations because she dared to say something in favour of the initiative. A lot of intellectuals? But the initiative goes on. In 23.05, we have 380 thousand signatures. And then the government realizes that someone is already close, but then argues, says Peja Grbin, "On 12 May there were 4 million 514 thousand 984 voters in the voters' register. Therefore, there are more than 450 thousand people who need 10% to call a referendum." Three days to go may not add another 70 grand. That would be the most elegant way out of this situation. However, in 28.05, the initiative announces that there are more than 450 thousand collected and is becoming aware that it is facing possible resistance from the authorities. And then he writes to the President of the Republic, I will read one part signed by that association: "There are namely several state officials who publicly express in public during the last days that in order to change the Constitution after the referendum is implemented in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local, regional (regional) self-government further, the Law on the referendum would require additional voting in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia in order to amend the Constitution." So those who have launched the initiative feel that certain officials are already up to something. And they react and ask the president. We have 710 thousand signatures in the 29th05th initiative. And then 10 days of peace, and then Mr. Grbin shows up as president of the Constitution and says, "I have a non-binding mandate as an agent, and when the time comes for voting on the decision to call a referendum, I have the right to decide as I believe it is important and to assess between the different provisions of the Constitution that I consider a shortcut." That's a statement 11.06. What does Vladimir Shakespeare say that day? "This is a constitutional referendum and the will of citizens expressed in such a referendum is binding and a positive response to the referendum issue has changed the Constitution, and all else are merely attempts by ruling circles to play the will of the people in the referendum." The same day, two statements shall be made by two members of the Assembly Committee. 14.06. it was dedicated here, we remember it, singing "Villa Velebit" and bringing a total of 749 thousand 316 signatures to the president of the Croatian Parliament. Mrs Markic made a very simple statement at the moment, "I expect the Government and the Parliament will respect the Constitution and procedure and call a referendum as soon as possible." The Croatian Parliament called on the government, in its conclusion of July 15th, to verify the number and credibility of voters from a referendum request submitted to the president by the initiative "On behalf of the family.". The Department of Management is on its way to work. It wasn't checking all 750 thousand collected signatures, it was a random sample of 21 300 that was set by the Statistics Office. A random sample check showed that the authenticity of the signatures collected was below one prominence, which means that those credible have enough to hold a referendum. The Minister of Administration, Mr. Bauk, told the government on 12 September that he had collected a sufficient number of voters' signatures to call a referendum on the proposal of the citizens' initiative "On behalf of the family". Based on the sample verification, the total number of authentic signatures from the total number of collected ranges between 665 thousand and 701 thousand valid signatures shall be estimated. In this way, the required criterion of 10% of the total number of voters is met. So, the people did their part, and the government, regardless of the statements of some politicians. But it was a time, if we remember, the beginning of the 9th month, when lex Perkovic ideologically let's say he was burning some kind of passion in the people, so this story was a little on the side. However, after the end of the story with lex Perkovic, after almost those sanctions received on 24.10., the government realizes that it has a responsibility, that it has to do something. There is a problem that needs to be solved and then Mr. Pedje Grbin's statement comes back again, he says, "The referendum directly decides to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution, and the decision is made by the Parliament to the two-thirds majority.", 24.10. Of course, who's reacting to that? Constitutional court. They make their views very clear on 28.10, four days later, and say: "The decision by which the Constitutional Court confirms that a specific national constitutional referendum at which the people have declared themselves most publicly in accordance with the Constitution also means that the Constitution was changed on the day of the referendum with the current legal effect which the date of the Constitutional Court declares in its decision published in the National Journal." Afterwards, the president of the Assembly Committee on the Constitution follows again, "I don't want to but I was forced by 750 thousand citizens. The decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected even if we do not agree with them in a formal or material sense. The referendum will be held next week in the Assembly." And what to say after this chronology? Are we clear? Are we all credible? Did we think the same thing at 6 or 10 months? Did something change us in the meantime? What do you expect? Personally, I think the referendum will pass because most in this country feel that marriage is possible only between a man and a woman. And life partnership is possible in more combinations, and even when partners aren't homosexuals, they might want to live together. It's a question that caused the reaction by its action. Did the government in its action and politics in the past two years cause a reaction from the people or did the people react by their actions? Someone's in a relationship. They'll show a referendum on who was right. But today is visible one fear,... I don't know why. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which will be if. What's it gonna be? Which will change. Well, we heard a lot of dirty play here today, dirty movement, darklings, buttocks, there was everything. For what? For fear. Whether it makes sense to spend 47 million kuna on democratic procedure, it's an argument why you might give up. And what some people have been through for the past six months is better off not even talking. What led to this, maybe that's not what you should be saying. But we heard an attempt to banalize the analysis of everything. There was talk today about first-stage, two-phase, some kind of power lines, and that might be the question. It could be a matter of abolishing a party. So why don't you go ahead and... Why don't you go with these questions to the squares, to the booths, get enough signatures and let's go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Does that guarantee us some kind of law? He's guaranteeing us. That's the problem. Which is why we need the people only for the legitimacy of power. And we all call for 900 thousand votes to sit in our chairs here. Power. And the opposition in hers because she got less. But when 700 thousand people sign and then we should be above them and take all the care and responsibility for themselves that they should decide whether it's right or wrong, so let the people decide, it's their decision. It gives us the right to be above them or we only need for one moment until we sit in power and then we take our own. I think it's wrong, They show other countries, which means referendum. [[Thank you very much. Finalize the debate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55640	Thank you. Replica Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55641	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I thank my fellow Boric for reminding me of everything I said from the month of June to today as well as reminding me that I kept saying the same thing, what I think today. And that is that the democratic multilateral system, for you to explain, is the parliamentary democracy the fundamental value of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for its interpretation. It's in our Constitution, dear colleague. I continue to believe that this decision as proposed by the Constitution Committee to the Croatian Parliament is correct. That's why I came out before all of us today and suggested it. But I said, I'll do it one more time. The Constitutional Court has taken its stand on the character of that decision. And today you have read what the Constitutional Court declares that it will do. It announces that it will also publish in the National Journal the results of the referendum and that the Constitution will then be amended. When such a decision is announced against it, I can't do anything about it. The only thing I can do is respect it. And I will personally continue to think that this is about the homophobic initiative, that this is about the wrong initiative, that this is about an initiative that should not be supported and that it is about something that all of us who are free and equal are the most important foundations of this country that all of us against such an initiative should fight. That's where we differ. That's where we differ because when the decision comes to the authority of the body, even if I don't agree with it, I have to respect it as much as it hurts. But that's the nature of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55642	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55643	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Mr. Grbin wasn't exactly your 6-month opinion to me, and now, let's say, a few days ago, you did make some withdrawals here. And that's what I'm saying again. Okay. As for homophobic or vice versa, or I don't know what kind of thinking might be, and that's why a lot of people decided what it was. Because when you watch the media every day, I won't, I'll remind you of the statements of a diary host who logs out a diary with friends and friends who say they are, and also says that these are homophobic changes to the Croatian Constitution. So they took him aside a little bit. When we think of a statement from another show that, where a journalist comes in and says it's a catatonic den. So does anyone have a right here to say that they're thinking something different? If that wasn't the case. Have we forgotten that? Well, that was... who was following the media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then why don't someone say what they want. But the people will make a decision. Then be assured that they will make it, and he will take on everything he should as such, and that is the responsibility for such a decision for the next 20 years. What makes you think you're gonna take over or me at that point. And that's why I think the Constitutional Court's decision, that is, the Constitutional Court's opinion, is quite correct. And there's not much to think about, but let's call this referendum and let people say what they're thinking. Let's not tell them, and you have the right to campaign, then tell them what you're going to do. How long should it be? Three weeks. You can go around Croatia and represent your views. But maybe it wouldn't be wise because we could pull a lot more of them out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55644	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55645	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I agree with your debate, but I would like to say, it is offensive to me personally, and I think most of the MPs sitting here are calling us homophobic, lazier, lazier, and I don't know all the names and in reality you have touched well that you have read this order of speech of the distinguished Mr. Peđa Grbin. He played a lot. He played along with the rulers and didn't count on the people. The people can endure this poverty, they can, and they didn't go out to the streets, but this people in Croatia will not suffer, believe you won't suffer to touch his sanctity, and that's family, that's faith, and that's his Croatian state. And you can call us to your name and I don't know whose name we're homophobic. No, we've been raised so, well, I've been raised, don't mock your daughter or your humping tree and my worldview is such that I don't disrespect anyone, but you've started to disdain this people and don't ever let yourself do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55646	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55647	Your Honor, Madam Vice President. It's a violation of Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in which the distinguished representative in her speech deviated from the applicable rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament. Namely, comparing a group of Croatian citizens with a coat of arms is completely inappropriate and deserves the deepest conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55648	I think... I don't think it was said in that sense, she said that her raising her was such a no mockery, so it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Would you like some? Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55649	We all got a little lost, yeah, that's possible after a debate like this, but good. Comrade twilight, we've heard a lot of things over the past five or six months and someone's really been playing with the fire, and the fire has burned someone, and now they need to get rid of it. However, yesterday was one day when we saw that three very important political figures in the Republic of Croatia made their statements on this referendum, so I will say what the prime minister said. That referendum is not good human intentions. Why is it so important to someone in the Constitution that marriage is defined as a community of men and women, it's completely meaningless. And now this, in this way, will no one be taken from a gram of rights, and what have we been listening to all day? No one has a gram of rights, even if it goes through in a referendum. However, I see and feel impatient toward a minority and no one can convince me that this is not the case. As a man, I disagree, I don't know whether to say it's not Christian, that it's actually a hidden impatience. This is a statement by the Croatian Prime Minister, quoting. I'm listening to him, too. You all the time from his club as a general without an army, he one, the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55650	You answer to your colleague, Gyurjici Sumrak, that he is prime minister and no one else. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55651	She warned you about that. And he says no one will lose a gram of rights, and we listen on the other hand that everyone will lose some, especially minorities of all their rights. If I've listened well to it all day, and the Prime Minister says no one will lose a gram of rights with such changes. What did the president of the state say? It is a sensitive matter, and we must all adhere to the Constitution as well as the outcome of the referendum, but the question is whether we need a referendum like this. I don't think the definition of marriage as a community of women and men belongs in the Constitution. I'll take the referendum and vote against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55652	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55653	Thank you very much. I'd rather not answer, but I'm in doubt listening. I'm in doubt what democracy is. Is it a system in which the majority vote is respected, or is it a system in which the minority's voice is respected? Some say that the most desirable form of democracy would be that it is the terror of individual and minority over most, that it is the conditions in which we live when an individual is above the law, even above the Constitution, even if it is a system in which parliament should vote on the results of the referendum. It would be an ideal democracy for some. But man is free, and democracy means human freedom and respect for man and human life more than anything. A man is free when he has the freedom to choose fellow Boric and has freedom of mind and freedom of speech. Whether someone will live without love or love with a person of the same sex or with a person of the opposite sex, in a marriage or... has freedom, everyone has freedom of choice. But if he wants to choose a marriage, then it can be a man and a woman. No one's right, no one's freedom is threatened and respected equally, no matter what form he lives in and let him have his freedom and let him choose that form..., but deny that the referendum cannot even choose the concession of highways then we take it back from Switzerland who declares everything a referendum, about all the important............ [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55654	Thank you. Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55655	I'm signing everything you said to my colleague Maric, everything. And you just listed Switzerland, I was about to say something, but I skipped. They have recently decided and will discuss the referendum, whether a country that has a lot of money will pay so much and so many thousands of euros each citizen per month. But what they have and why they're willing to go to the referendum, that's more important, not the question. They trust their people and they're sure they won't vote. As tempting as it may seem, they won't vote because they know what kind of state they live in, how arranged and what that would mean. But we, we've given ourselves a role here to determine now who should live in what marriage, who will feel less valuable or more valuable, and then those who disagree with most are homophobias, darklings, buttocks, which I know to you all we're not, and I live normally in society like you. I'm moving next to these people like you, and I don't even know who those people are, and I don't care. So what do I have against them? I've never offended anyone, is that why I'm a homophobe? But I have a right to speak. And I don't know what we've given ourselves that role to say again over the people and now we're doing something here, and the referendum should be called. So let the people say is it then the responsibility of the people when they decide? I think so. Now we're setting up again, if 100 grand comes out, it's a big minority or not. Well, everyone has a chance so they can come out, they can come out, and that's enough, they have a chance. And who will use it is his right as well as his election. We're saying that this power is illegal because it's won 900 grand? Well, it's not 50% of this people, but it's legitimate, by law, everything's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55656	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55657	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to show myself about that part of your presentation where you went a little bit and into the future, so you also mentioned the Law on the Registered Partnership, so something that will just come here in this House before us, so you said that, in your opinion, that it can apply to, not only homosexual couples but also to others who choose not to live in marriage. A colleague, Boric, the family law next to the marriage community also knows the extramarital community. Therefore, the extramarital community is according to all its legal effects therefore having the same legal effects as the marriage community has. But in this way you completely rule out the possibility that there are extramarital communities, that many other laws are not only in the Family Law equalized entirely with marriage communities. My one dilemma in all this is happening now, so it doesn't occur to me that I, as a representative, do not respect the will of the people who will be expressed in the referendum. But my personal dilemma is whether in this way we are bringing marriage as a life union of men and women into the Constitution essentially discriminate between the other and the extramarital community, i.e. people, i.e. the persons of men and women living in extramarital communities. So I'm not just talking about homosexuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55658	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55659	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Sobol, I said I'll do it again. I think the referendum will pass, because most in this country think that marriage is possible only between a man and a woman, and life partnership is possible in all combinations. So then I said that if you resented me, in all combinations it would be possible, you'd see it. And I don't think that's gonna get anyone's hair off their heads. And as for the Constitution, it says here, let's say in Article 14, everyone is equal before the law. There, that's enough. They're all equal before the law. Are we all equal before the law? Are we all the same in implementation? And I wouldn't agree with that. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55660	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55661	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, you've listed dozens of contradictions that have occurred recently in interpreting whether or not necessary, for and against the change or definition of marriage. The latest prime minister says the referendum is something ugly that will happen to the Croatian state. It's the latest. If you looked at this morning's news or yesterday's latest news, then he said a referendum that is happening to the Croatian state and that this is the last time such a referendum is happening to decide on minority rights. And I say yes, you forgot to emphasize it in your debate. I would say that it is certainly not the last, that it will become more common and that in important matters most of the Croatian people will decide precisely in the referendum as the only true democratic way to protect and the majority but also minority rights. In any case, there is no excuse for all these discussions today, contradictions, mistakes made, and confessions in the end because neither money nor anything is more important than the real definition of marriage that he can really do only man and woman. Because of... Kuna did not matter when elections were held for local, local elections, and then European elections afterwards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They could have been together. It would save 80 million kunas. Nobody's mentioning that today. It's all forgotten as if it wasn't, 80 million thrown into the wind. Fearing losing something to Europe or to a European representative of one or two may have been the only reason to cost 80 million kuna. I believe that soon there will be new refunds that will also decide important matters. Whether we change the Constitution or constitutional law or not, we'll see about that in a few days. In a few days we will see what the Croatian people say, what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia say, how many have come out and how many have voted for such a question which is vital to further life, work in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55662	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55663	Well, my colleague Djakic, I read what the prime minister said and he said one, and here I trust him for the first time after all he's said in two years, means that no one will be deprived of a gram of rights in such a way. On the other hand, we hear that all rights will disappear. Now, they need to coordinate who's here, whether he's a general without an army or has an army, etc. So the army doesn't listen properly, etc. However, this is my opinion, so I asked whether the government has done anything in the past two years, so this reaction to its action or whether this referendum is a response to action and such initiatives on behalf of the family. And we've witnessed everything that's happened in the past two years. He was one, he may say irreparable to me, but that there is one attempt at the ideological transformation of the Croatian people he is obvious and visible. It began with the abolition of the Assembly's patronage over the anniversary in Bleiburg, and then we introduced health care education, and then we had some cancellations because some reporter showed some show that someone didn't like, so then we had a memory of Mrs. Judith Reisman's visit here in the Parliament, how was she welcomed here by the ruling ones? Well, that was embarrassing to listen to at all, let alone attend to it. And of course there are certain moments lost. Is the people's reaction to that normal? I think so. Maybe that too, maybe they want to be sure, want to install it in the Constitution, and then let the people enjoy it. And what authority has there to worry about who will be with whom and in what way? I mean, he can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55664	We're continuing the debate. A colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55665	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I've been listening to almost all the debates except two in this House today, two behind me. In my opinion, today's theme, or the proposal for a decision to call a state referendum, has two procedurally different parts and a third political world-wide view. The first is the form and question whether to call a referendum for which citizens have collected nearly 680,000 signatures with their initiative. I don't think there's any dilemma here. 680,000 signatures and the citizens' wish to call a referendum is a clear and solid legal obligation that no one can or should avoid. Second, and I think a very different part, is content. Is there a question really in the long run that puts the fundamental human rights of a minority group at risk in the first place through a referendum? Personally, I don't think so. Not every question is a referendum question. What question is referendum, which is not, someone needs to be evaluated. In this case, it is about changing the Constitution and the assessment must be given by the Constitutional Court. I thought the Constitutional Court could and had to do it. It seems to me that a very large chamber, accompanied by the Constitutional Court of Public Discussions and recommendations on this issue, and with its silence, in my opinion, gives false signals that can be repercussed to the outcome of the referendum. And that is why I welcome the idea and support the idea of those colleagues and colleagues who are initiating the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 95. The Constitutional Law shall be referred to the Constitutional Court. A team more because of the constitutional law itself, such a requirement and persuasion. We, like all EU countries, have a constitutional arrangement where we live in a state of parliamentary representation democracy. It's not the perfect system, but it's not invented to date. A representative democracy also serves to bring citizens' problems through their representatives and not to bring them directly between various majority or minority groups in various disputes and conflicts. This implies the assumption that directly elected representatives will understand the needs and wishes of the citizens they represent and that they will advocate and realise their needs and desires always by looking at the wider context of the rights of individuals and the benefits of the entire society. However, this means that regardless of some influences, desires, efforts, and pressures of certain groups, and conditionalally speaking to them, close groups will know clearly from the wrong one and that they will be known to determine that they will never compromise the real rights of any group of citizens. Someone said today that direct democracy is the only proper democracy. It's completely wrong for me. Direct democracy can lead to castration, and often can lead to a harsh violation of human rights. This is why the world's most advanced democracies have deeply embedded representative democracy. The representative democracy carries with it a huge responsibility of directly elected representatives, and that responsibility carries all 151 of us in this House. Representative democracy does not mean amputating participatory democracy. It is important that citizens constantly question the authorities, it is important that citizens give an initiative, it is important that citizens influence changes in society and encourage them to eventually consume them. It is important that citizens control the spending of state tax money as much as possible. But the final decisions are not and must not be on the citizens and the responsibility for making decisions is not the responsibility of the citizens. The decisions must be Parliament's decisions, and the responsibility of the directly elected representatives is that of the elected majority. However, I repeat, in accordance with the Law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, 680 thousand signatures have been collected with a request for a referendum to be called upon by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to decide whether they agree to establish in the Constitution a provision that marriage is exclusively between men and women. A request for a referendum that no one can even challenge. And a provision that is multiplely dubious and harshly for a long time violates the human rights of a group of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. But the whole initiative has a very clear goal, to make it impossible for anyone who is not a man and a woman to establish a marriage union. They're clearly homosexuals. I am impressed with what passion some fellow parliamentary representatives encourage discrimination against the restrictions of human rights to some of our fellow citizens. Today, this assembly even spoke of potential same - sex marriages that could endanger the birth of children or reduce the value of marriage and so on. The freedoms of individuals and individuals are unlimited until they threaten the freedoms of other individuals or individuals. Homosexual persons as a recent minority do not in any way endanger any other group of citizens, let alone the heterosexual majority. Homosexual persons who seek the right to marriage are even more re-affirmed by a marriage that has long been weak as an institution. Homosexual persons have the right to claim, as individuals, that as regards family formation, marriage, joint life of the choice of partners, they have the same rights as all other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Homosexual individuals and individuals have the same right to happiness as any other citizen or citizen of ours. The duty and task of the majority is to protect the rights of the minority and the fewer have the full right to demand the protection of most of their rights. And I end up taking the opportunity to invite all citizens to come to the referendum and vote against that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55666	Furio Radin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55667	Of course I agree. I'm taking the opportunity to repeat the thesis I said before, there's a marriage that's in the authority of the state and there's a marriage in the power of religion, religion, church. No one contests the church that defines marriage in a certain way but the state must respect the rights of all. Of course, my fears prove justified. It was said here just before that these initiatives would continue with the referendums and of course what I was talking about earlier, the Constitutional Law, the Constitutional Law was said and it was the national minorities that we understood each other. Respect for minorities if there is a referendum referendum in my opinion will be less and less. So what do you think is said just before that there is no democratic state than Switzerland, a state that only a few years ago gave women the right. Last in Europe. It has been said that democracy, that direct democracy is the most direct form of democracy, so we and the home council delegate someone to deal with their problems because it is simply a indirect democracy is actually a way to solve problems. Direct democracy can only be established in certain moments and should be very well thought out when not simply throwing matches into barrels of oil.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55668	Reply to the replica Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55669	Thank you very much. There are some issues that I agree with you clearly just once again, I would like to point out that in this world view, in terms of the very procedure and the legal requirement, I don't think there's anything to discuss here. The second topic is the content or essence of this question, and the third is the world-wide theme that is really wanted there. There is a real desire to disable this is the only objective of such a question that wants to intervene in the Constitution in order for one minority to be deprived of their real human rights for a long time, and we all need to focus on this together in all further discussions and discussions on the subject, and it will be believed for a very long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55670	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55671	Thank you very much. I have seen my colleague Blažekovic as an advocate for the suspension of the referendum as a form of direct decision. That's what you said when you said you couldn't allow individuals who formed some kind of group to determine by a referendum, but it needed a representative body. In fact, you confirmed what Mr. Grbin had said 15 days ago until the Constitutional Court said what he had said and determined that the referendum had to be implemented and I talked to Mr. Grbin about it and he respected the Constitutional Court and its decisions so it is completely and understandable why he stepped down and made a copernican turn in his views. But he said them neatly today. But the referendum is not the highest form of direct democracy you can't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55672	Reply to the replica Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55673	Of course I didn't say it, I just said it in which system. No, I didn't say it, I said it in which system, and now I'm going to read you what I said. Not every question is a referendum question, I read, as a matter of reference and not someone should be evaluated. In this case, a change in the Constitution must be given by the Constitutional Court. I thought that the Constitutional Court could and had to do it. No, he wasn't working on the content, he only said about form. I'm talking about content. The Constitutional Court didn't say anything about the content, and he had to, and that's why I support the request that that colleague Kosor made and I support your debate, and I didn't see you come in. And I write to myself, unlike you, I write to myself debates because I am still insecure in that I would not, in front of the public that I feel responsible, be able to read what I said and therefore agree and write here and therefore welcome the idea of those colleagues and colleagues who initiate this Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 95. The Constitutional Law shall be referred to the Constitutional Court. So it is completely incorrect that I want to suspend the referendum as a form of public expression, but I am deeply convinced that not every question for a referendum is, and I am deeply convinced that no human rights issue is for a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55674	counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55675	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Finally, given that I have listened carefully to all the discussions of my colleagues, I think it is still necessary to be honest and congratulated to the HDZ colleagues that this is one of the best political campaigns that HDZ has ever done since the initiative was launched, since the discussion has shown that HDZ has participated in the initiative itself, and that, of course, through the initiative, this has come about. There has been a Parliament or a moment when it should be decided, or when it will decide to call a referendum. This campaign has been going on all along, so from the very beginning, since the beginning of the collection of signatures that few people have talked about, but I have been on several occasions walking the streets and the streets where these signatures were collected I witnessed a terribly aggressive campaign where citizens were literally dragged by a sleeve, where they were not told the essence, where only one question was offered to which most citizens would be, that's the traditional value not only of our society, marriage is a community of men and women. So who would deny this claim and who would ever disprove it in this Croatian Parliament or anywhere else. And who wouldn't sign it like that. Not to say that those people who expressed some concern about why they were even asked how they were very aggressively attacked by the surveyors who conducted the survey. That I had personally resented some people and not only had grudges but some people had come to me with regrets that they had signed the poll because they did not know how this poll would be presented or what it would be used for. This is what this whole discussion of HDZ colleagues who say the people is about, of course, presenting HDZ as the protector of the people and all of us here as opponents of the same people, which is a completely distorted thesis. They are calling for democracy. But I would remind my HDZ colleagues that unfortunately history teaches us that in the name of both the people and those flossulas that cardinal historical mistakes have been made, that unfortunately in history there have been a lot of those who have declared themselves protectors of the people and that, after some years, a certain number of years have unfortunately condemned them and unfortunately declared some even criminals. One of the most perfect constitutions ever passed by Stalin. So some of the things that we just lamentate about here, I think we need to scratch under the surface. What bothers me personally in this whole story is to bring down the standards of democracy and society is as free and democratic as the smallest minority in that society is free or protected. And I admit that most have the right and to propose and have the right to petition for a million signatures, but those who are responsible for protecting democratic traditions and I think that we have sworn here that we will, we will, we will, we will, we must seriously think about it when such initiatives are carried out in this way as we are going to head where? The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And by doing so, somehow, to open Pandora's box according to the current of course procedures that we have when there's a possibility that tomorrow a question similar to a species might be even worse, which would endanger not only a minority but also a majority of them could be triggered. I think Mrs. Kosor said at one point very correctly that who would say no to some question about reducing certain duties, taxes or something without talking about some worse things. In the context of marriage, why not say that only men and women can marry but that these men must be the same nationalities, the same creeds, and thus it can be upgraded very, very, very conveniently. And the consequences of that would be horrifying. I would only briefly refer to that I am sorry that our Constitutional Court had absolutely nothing to say about the content of this issue. And recently we were witnesses that we were changing... Amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act where there was a bunch of objections to the Constitutional Court and we dealt with this where, of course, all the Constitution guaranteed the rights of our citizens were taken into account. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So didn't this matter referendum deserve the Constitutional Court to say something about it on its own initiative? I'm afraid our democracy is gone, it's not on its way. We are a country that has entered the European Union. We are a country that should upgrade its democratic standards. This question, such a referendum is definitely in my opinion the collapse of democratic standards in the Republic of Croatia. I just hope that regardless of the results of the referendum and whatever is behind this because I respect that one most people have said what they think about it and that it goes to the referendum if that's how it has to be. But I'd like the Constitutional Court to say something before that about the contents of that referendum issue. So I will, anyway, and if I have to go to the referendum, I will be against it because in this society, I want those individuals who are the least minority to have the same rights and enjoy the same freedoms as the largest majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55676	Now we'll move on to the replicas. A fellow vice president, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55677	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, distinguished colleagues Turina-Djuric, of course, your spin is a handsome attempt but I think it was unsuccessful that it was HDZ's campaign. You know exactly who started that campaign, how it was run, etc. The HDZ supports it, but it was neither conceived nor actually implemented. However, I am glad that you yourself said something that I support, which is that the claim that marriage is the life union of a woman and a man is actually a traditional value with us. So what's the problem, why is he so bile, why does he have so many attacks if you think so. You said that the campaigners aggressively convinced people, dragged them by the sleeve. I don't know if that was the case, but I know they were beaten, I know they were insulted, I know their signatures were hijacked and destroyed, and I know there was a kiosk burned downtown, I know that. Is there anyone who has kept telling me I don't know, and it seems to me that this discrepancy is terrible, and you didn't look back on it. On your claim that if it were to bring down democratic standards, I have to say I don't see for what, but surely and certainly democratic standards are collapsing if any of this citizens' initiative is said to be said today from your ranks that it's a dirty movement. I say again, I don't agree with any civil initiative, or any NGO, or I don't agree with it. It is the destruction of indeed some democratic standards because it must not be spoken of for some civil society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55678	Thank you very much. Replica response, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55679	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Rainer, you know that when I answer for the word that I usually call things a real name, I thank you for this first part of where you commended me, which is the fact that it's a HDZ campaign. Whether she was initiated or connected in the first run, it's a question now, perhaps another question, but it seems to me that everyone might agree that the campaign is yours. We agreed, marriage is a traditional value. I don't see any reason for him to be in the Constitution unless he wants someone else's rights to be diminished or intimidated in that way. And when you talked about how it was about attacking activists in that campaign, so what I had the opportunity to see and read, those situations actually happened in response to the aggression of activists. And as for the dirty movement, I think you misread that by the CNS we condemn the very association that launched that campaign and that we consider it a dirty movement, but we think that whoever instrumentalized that whole story definitely ran the dirty campaign and ran it today, that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55680	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55681	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55682	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55683	You're saying that those who conducted the poll that they attacked people and that's why they reacted. It's clear from the media that the information we got about how many attacks on activists were on people who were conducting the survey, who were calm, who didn't touch anyone, but well here's what you didn't notice. But I don't know why you're so angry at the institute of a referendum that's the right of people. Now it's a dirty campaign, it's a party campaign. In all possible ways, you're looking to degrade 700 thousand or 680 thousand people who have signed something. So if people have signed something, if they want something, then let's hear everyone else's opinion. And then to say that the referendum is to bring down democratic standards because you say that some are being called on behalf of the people. So wait, whose representatives are we? We are representatives of the emperor, the king, or that people because we represent this people here because we are obliged to hear what that people say. And isn't there a referendum in other countries on various issues, and what a terrible thing has happened? Why we're afraid of that opinion and why we're afraid of the results. Well, the result of that referendum will be... You sent a clear message to people, don't vote for a referendum, and we'll see how people react. So let us respect these people, we are their representatives, and let us not, it is tragic that in this Croatian Parliament we say that the referendum is the collapse of democratic standards, which is something this Parliament has brought and what this Parliament has adopted, and that is the highlight of democracy, not the collapse of democratic standards. That we fear our own people, that we have come to this position to fear what this people will say. Well, that's, I think it's a tragedy of democracy, that we came in a position to fear what our people think. Maybe the people will think tomorrow that we should change power and we'll also say it's a tragedy, don't accidentally make that people vote because they might change power and we won't even have a choice because the people might have a different opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55684	Replica response, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55685	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Look, of course destroying democratic standards is something that is European, global, international conventions, which means equality, equality, freedom. These are the things that, look, I think we can organise a referendum on, and these are things that should not be decided at the referendum because we must have accepted it already in the beginning by establishing a state. And we can play with it, and where it might end that's what we're warning you about and what I think the Constitutional Court should have said its word. That's the problem, not in challenging the will of some people who wanted something. But some standards we have to respect otherwise we can hear anything, we can go back to the cave.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55686	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55687	Thank you very much. Dear Turkish MPs, therefore, claim that 670,000 people who have signed a referendum poll in this form are destroying democratic standards. 670,000 adult citizens of this country. They attacked, surveyors of all 670,000 in your experience as you carry it here and drag them by the sleeve to sign on the lists that were on the stands, tables, etc. Your knowledge of sleeve drag, aggression on those who have passed, passersby, etc. They're as small as mine, so I know why 670,000 just signed off on it, did they sign that poll just because of the aggression on them? I do not believe that those in so many have been forced, forced with aggressive polling act signed what they have signed. As regards the caricature possibilities of questions of referendum, and someone announced that there would be more and more, so that is actually the reason why, in fact, the legal gap created by the Law on Referendum, and after the adoption of the 2010 Constitution in June 2010. Who's to blame? We are not going to explain now, but here is the initiative to change the Labour Constitution, which proposed that the conditions of the referendum and the quotas needed and the signing be defined in a concise, clear and loud manner, as well as the quota needed to go to the referendum in order to be valid. Therefore, we will change the Constitution and in that sense, but now the situation is the same as the people who signed the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55688	A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55689	I didn't say any data that were quite interesting in the numbers. So, in the Republic of Croatia there are millions and 215865 families, of which a couple without children 321933, an extramarital couple without children 26252, a married couple with children means that this is what I suppose 637184, an extramarital couple with children 22634, a mother with children 174517. I ask you how all these mothers and there are 33345 fathers with children, so no wife. How will these people feel after we enter into the Constitution this provision? How will their children feel? Why? [[/Intruder: Why?]] How does it not matter? ... All children who are not married, who are not married, two parents of men and women, how will they feel? [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55690	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55691	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Turic is now a little disappointed with these figures and this question, because it really has nothing to do with what we're talking about today. Today, there has been a lot of talk about discrimination, gender equality, others and different ones, and now you're talking about the least minority. I'm just wondering why no one's here and you say you always say everything by your real name, why don't you call that smallest minority by name. If I were that smallest minority, and believe me, I don't know who that's about, I'd be in the way. Because all of you today and most of you have stood behind that least minority since, I have to re-absorb the chairman of the Constitution Committee into a stalemate situation. And believe me, you've told me the end of the story that we're going back to the cave and that equally, in the name of the people, terrible and horrible were committed because they were made by different totalitarian parties. The people of this Croatian don't have to be afraid. If you mean under the smallest minority of gay populations here in Croatia without a problem you keep gay adjectives and the majority that does not support it does nothing, does not beat, does not kill. None of us. No, what are you looking at, Mr. coat of arms? You're too young, you're still too green for some things. There's a man here for us, a man, and his sexual commitment is really his, and we don't care about it here, and we'll never judge him by that, and we'll never talk about him like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55692	Comrade twilight, you can't tell if anyone's mature or green. That's inadmissible. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Replica response, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55693	Okay, here's a lot of things you warned me about here. Thank you for those warnings. You keep calling on the people and what's out of that people you're not all right. But I can't, and I can't call things by your real name again, how much the world, unfortunately, is this people, can be seen from your past. This people are a stolen people. You know, this coalition hasn't been in power in the past ten years, or eight years ago, but HDZ. And that, by any chance, in 2011, when we were in the elections, there was a referendum on whether or not you should be abolished, I believe that this referendum would pass. And that would be the will of the people very right in my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55694	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55695	Thank you very much. You said and you insulted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55696	What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55697	This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure, because you said I stole this people. It's a big insult, and I mean, no matter what you're a parliamentary representative, and you still have immunity so I can sue you lightly, and I'd get that lawsuit because I've never stolen this people and I've never been in a position to steal this people. And most of the 200 thousand members of the party where I am have not stolen this people, but have been robbed by thieves who are in prisons and will be held accountable, and some will only come to prison and will answer for it. And so don't be so empowered to compliment anyone that they're honest and others that they stole this people. And especially don't do that to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55698	Thank you very much. And I'm going to tell you that no injured Rules of Procedure, given that she wasn't speaking to you personally, she was speaking in context. We're very happy to share labels with others, but when we feel that we're personally injured, then we're looking for protection, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55699	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is my colleague Turina Đuric, rightly criticising those who have declared themselves protectors and you have referred to yourself with the right to a statement, or debate by a colleague from HDZ, when they speak for us are family, marriage and state of sanctity. So you're criticizing their protection, so it's really a question, and I'm also asking him where they're all members of both families and marriages, so the states as a whole and society as a whole gave them the power to protect them? We've seen them, for years, for eight years, protect them. Well, you must know about the sanctity of the family those you rightly criticized that there was only one holy family. And the one who spoke about the protection of patriotism and who spoke here heartily and who was now in prison was saying that he could not hide from anyone in love with the Homeland. And I repeat how many times to see before the court how many zeroes their patriotism was written with. We are obliged here and rightly speaking of it, that's why so many replicas on you, to expose all that I would say duality, all that Phariseeism to propagate conservative ideas against which I don't even have something, let each one have them, and to live very liberally. That's what we're supposed to expose here. Even so, when talking about family, you also talked about it, and it should be particularly apostrophe. Who here is talking about the drama of the Croatian family? How do you protect your family? Where were these advocates when the Croatian people were robbed and these families are experiencing the drama of their survival today? It's because of those and those.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55700	Thank you very much. Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55701	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The colleagues of Turina Đurić therefore have a different attitude towards minorities, and that is correct, the test of the maturity of every society and of course Croatian societies. And what should be pointed out in this debate is that we have reached high standards, above all through the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but also numerous laws of which I have mentioned many times the Law on Discussing Discrimination and Gender Equality and many others. But certainly between what we have been through the laws and through the Constitution we have defined and what is practice and life is always a great and long way to go. And the fact that neither this debate, unfortunately today where we've split up many times, has many times offended each other will help many families and many women and many children, and some men who are victims and violence at this time will not help to live better. That poor families who are on the verge of existence to improve their status. And that's a fact. And many marriages, and after that, that definition is incorporated into the Constitution, which are not good, will not be better. And therefore, when we speak in the Croatian Parliament, in Croatia which is such a small country where more or less everything is known about everyone, and about our business and private life, it is important to make sure that if we really live the life that we propagate through this debate and which should be built into the Constitution, if we live such a life then it really deserves a lot of respect. But if we're leading a triple, quadruple life and if after coming home one of us, I'm not talking about concrete people right now, I'm not thinking about us, but people who are going to participate at different levels in these discussions come home and, for example, their spouses break their teeth because she talked too much, then this whole debate is for nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55702	Replica response, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55703	Thank you. Mrs. Kosor, there's only one thing I'd like to add, I think we're too often or in this situation we're really hypocritical because I wonder why not add to this finding marriage is a community of women and men, why not add to it but without lovers and lovers. Yeah, 'cause that's the real question, why don't you add that? Well, I think it's because we're moralizing about the completely missed stuff that we put in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55704	And finally on behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55705	Thank you very much. Even though it's getting late, it's getting funnier. But today when we're discussing this decision, this 761 person is out of a job, and we've been here all day needlessly saying I'd like to present our world-wide views that all the debates come from. You can cover it up with democracy both with this and that, but in the end, there's always that light on all sides of the dust here today. And 670,000 says simply by the air the birds fly, there's one verse that reads so. That's what people and citizens think. 670,000 citizens, I don't know how many of them are married, married, etc. has in his family another twice as much as it is to multiply times three more that is almost two million citizens. But it is difficult to reach as many as 670,000 citizens represent people in Croatia at all. After all, all those who are dissatisfied by the sleeve of force signed with ignorance signed in ignorance have the opportunity in the highest form of democracy, at the referendum just to confirm and say no, because I have screwed up I will now vote differently. And then says here one MP I won't vote on that referendum because it won't fix the blood count of Croatia, it won't fix the demographics and so on. So will the decision against repairing demographics? He will not be for but will be against it because if he votes for it he will not improve the demographic picture of Croatia. Will it be when he votes against it? Will he then fix the demographic picture of Croatia or not at all if he votes against or against the demographic picture of Croatia? So the manipulation of the referendum here is mentioned as an insufficient, false, legal void, etc. So it wasn't legal void when we went to a referendum for Europe, then you didn't say it, then it didn't matter how many people would go to the referendum, then it didn't matter that a million and 300 thousand people decided to go to Europe, and 4.5 million registered voters that you reduced to 3700 Bauk's intervention later. All those who were saying in Vrgorec and I don't know 130 in one place, you sketched it, those who were somewhere else you left it, so today we have a problem with Vukovar, there are all the others at the same address, and those in Vrgorec you fucked gentlemen from the Kukuriku Coalition. And now he says like this today we heard very ugly words in the debate starting with what he said dirty movement, terror of the majority over the minority. There's no tolerance for most of the minority. So is there a minority tolerance over most of them, that's what I'm asking you? Is there a minority tolerance over the majority's opinion or does it express it by saying it's terror? Is this Parliament terror? Is our work terror here? It's because most terrorises the minority and doesn't give her every vote on Fridays, every Friday terrorises us with its decisions, so it turns out. It's the terror of the majority over the minority. It's a matter of indirect democracy. And a referendum as the highest form of opinion, so we can't declare that I don't say silly, learned and crazy 670 people. If a thousand, two, three, but you can't get 670,000 people, and there's a mass of intellectuals to sign something like that. And then here we are talking about the Constitutional Court, so the Constitutional Court has assessed that there is no tools to stop this referendum, there is no Constitution that has been made to catch up with this and that is why it has made such a decision, Mr. Kregar, which is why he has made such a decision. And that's why Mr. Grbin, he knows it, there's no instrument, there's no tools in the Constitution, there's not all the clauses that the Constitutional Court could catch and say that's it. And he made a decision that Mr. Grbin is very neat, I take off my hat, we honor the referendum. And what do we have to discuss today? We're wasting time, 761 people are out of work today, 761 times three hungry mouths are two thousand people in Croatia. Enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55706	Thank you very much. If this was a waste of time, you've given a hell of a lot of it, too. A colleague, Josip Boric, is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55707	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Grubisic answered the line because I knew you wouldn't be able to say everything. I have to agree with most of what you said, but what's most important is that the referendum is the most democratic way and the greatest step in democracy and that there is no reduction of democratic standards. The democratic standards were lowered at the first session of this Parliament's meeting when a law was passed, the mayors, the mayors without a election, remained in their positions, while others ended up in ministerial or other posts. That was the reduction of those reached then democratic standards. But then it was interpreted in a different way. And so this story about changing the Constitution. What's done in the people is called gibberish, and when you don't reach what you wanted, it's called lewdness. And we're witnesses to each other. And we could solve it much faster and easier today if there weren't much resistance to make it more complicated now that the people's will could again, it could be questionable. That's why you're right about everything you said in the final presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55708	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55709	My colleague Boric, I am not concerned about the referendum or the will of the people, he will vote on how he will vote. I will not say here today that I will vote as the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and a series of MPs here say. I'm not going to say this because I think a referendum is like an election, you can't talk about it publicly, who you're going to vote for, which party you're going to vote for, which person you're going to vote for as well as at the referendum. So I'm not gonna say it on purpose and I didn't say it. But here, whatever some say, says Ruža Tomasic needs her, as unnecessary, or I don't know her, so then Bernardic unnecessarily, he hop, here they go, so it looks like this with these recommendations from our top officials will pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55710	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55711	Proposal for a Decision on the calling of a national referendum. The debate on the text of the draft decision is closed. In line with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and HGS MPs, I give the following conclusion: - The Croatian Parliament tells the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to determine whether the contents of the referendum issue of the citizens' initiative "In the name of the family" are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed conclusion has not been reached because 39 MPs voted in favour of the conclusion and 75 MPs. Let's move on. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments made by the HDZ Club. On behalf of the promoter, President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the respected colleague, Pedja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55712	The first amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club at point 1 shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55713	Thank you very much. This becomes an integral part of the final proposal for a decision. Amendment number two, dear colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55714	The second amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to point 3 shall be adopted by the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55715	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal for a decision. Amendment number three, dear colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55716	Amendment of the HDZ agent to add a new point 4 to point 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55717	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal for a decision. Dear Representative Jozo Radosh, am I listening?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55718	Mr. President, since there have been new circumstances in relation to the debate we led by not having accepted the proposal to refer the request to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and the change of decision, I request a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55719	Okay, HNS. HDSSB? I'm setting up a break, so this is where we meet in, how much did you ask for? 15 minutes? At 12.20 hours. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12,20 HOURS]] On behalf of the Croatian National Party Club in the Croatian Assembly, the respected representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55721	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, we are deciding to call a state referendum that can result in changes to the Constitution, so we are deciding on two of the highest institutes of governance of the country's act and one process. So, to show the greatest people's will. And I think that in this process as a society, as competent institutions, we have not entered with sufficient preparation, without proper documents and this situation cannot be repeated. In a conflict of two principles, one principle is the right of citizens to participate in the formation of the highest acts of the state through law and another principle is the protection of minority rights. And the state is not democratic until the right of the least minority in that country is secured. We were on behalf of the HNS Club announced that for the sake of respecting this first principle we would be in favour. In the meantime, the decision was taken that the issue of which is so important would be sought by the Constitutional Court who, in our opinion, could not but had to give its opinion and in the future regulations to be adopted by the Croatian Parliament must certainly stand for the fact that the competent authority is a non-political body, which has competences or should have a duty to be manifested and not to ask for anyone, including the Croatian Parliament to seek an opinion from that body. However, he does not have that opinion. And we today if everything were okay in this country, if this process were clear, we wouldn't have anything to decide about. Our decision to go to a referendum based on a valid process that has been completed would be just a formal nature. However, this is not the case because the process is not valid. Defacto today, by making this decision, decides on the constitutionality of the issue because after this decision in a regulated state, no one should decide on it anymore. We are making a decision on the constitutionality of this issue and there are serious doubts about the constitutionality of this issue because this issue violates a minority in Croatian society. Without having discussed it, the real debate is based on the background in the Croatian Parliament we did not. We've been giving flat-rates on the one hand and on the other without being competent to do so whether the decision is constitutional. Defacto we decide on the constitutionality of this issue. And the club of representatives of the HNS will not take responsibility, the club of HNS representatives will not be in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55722	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honored Representative Zeljko Reiner, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55723	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the position of the HDZ Club is of course different. When I say, of course, that's totally legitimate and it seems to me that we all have to learn to have different opinions. Especially the world-famous one. Like us in these benches, our citizens who chose us have different worlds. Some have worlds based on traditional values, values that are traditional in Croatian people. Some have far more liberal attitudes and different attitudes. Apparently, our legacy of 45 years of totalitarian system has made many think that those with different attitudes are their enemies, that they should fight them. That their opinions should not be expressed. We see this in particular about the media and the media campaign that has already begun to be created around this referendum. We believe that diversity in opinion, pluralism is something which is a fundamental feature of democracy and of course that voters will also have different opinions. Some will be for it and some will be against it. And it's totally understandable and legitimate. In different countries, this has been resolved differently, in some ways, in some ways. This does not mean that if it is settled in any of those two ways in a country, that the country is less valuable, that the people in that country are lagging behind, primitive, and in the other way that they are advanced, that their world-famouss are correct, etc. Fortunately, the times of one-mindedness are behind us. Fortunately, no one can force the opinion of someone else and people, the citizens of Croatia must have the right to decide with the sequence of their worlds, and I think it is important to say very clearly something that has been mentioned recently by one side, one worldview, as indeed spin. The introduction of such a formulation into the Constitution does not discriminate on anyone, it does not take away anything because when you say subtracting it means that someone, a group, had some right and now we would take away her right. That's just not true. And even those who let such spins know that it is not true because such a formulation already exists in Croatian law and never before has anyone said that because of this formulation any group is discriminated against. Therefore, it is not discrimination, it is not about giving up certain rights to someone but simply about me saying that what exists already in Croatian legislation and which is founded in Croatian society does not change and because of this danger, such a formulation is proposed. And we hold that any spins about it being unconstitutional, that would endanger someone, that would mean any discrimination or fostering inequality, are simply not true. And that's true, in fact, everyone could read in the Constitutional Court's warning and I'm drawing attention to that, so I'm going to read it again, where the Constitutional Court has told the concrete motions of a referendum on the definition of marriage. In this regard, no subsequent objections should be made. Therefore, after that, when the same definition that exists in the Croatian legislation and which no one has said so far means inequality, that it means discrimination, that it means taking away the right of someone, etc., it puts now in the Constitution I really don't see a problem that could now be declared unconstitutional except that again in one way try to postpone it or try to intimidate those who think otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55724	Thank you, too. It is up to the respected representative Drazen Djurovic on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55725	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and MPs. Maybe it's good for those who look at us even though it's already coming out of their ears again, so what's the problem? The problem is whether constitutional definition, a referendum issue where the constitution would introduce a provision that marriage is a union of men and women is a threat to anyone. Indeed, I talk to anyone amongst the people in the area where I live I don't come across anyone who thinks differently or who has a conflicting opinion about it. So among the people I'm going to, in the community I live in. It may also be good for those who have an obstacle to question the community they live in, the people they live with, whether that question is a problem. We have the opinion of the Constitutional Court, the preliminary opinion on the second issue and the opinion of constitutional experts that the Constitutional Court found anything unconstitutional to say so. Perhaps in the previous procedure there was enough time, in the previous period to send an inquiry to the Constitutional Court and to clarify that. However, I am not sure that those who presently have a problem with this referendum issue in order to be satisfied with the opinion of the Constitutional Court. Perhaps they would only be satisfied with the constitutional question that would say that marriage is not a union of men and women. I mean, let's not cloud our personal positions where we are on the issue of constitutionality of a particular issue, a referendum issue. Is that a minority question? We at the HDSSB club believe that this is not at all a problem concerning any minority, at least those minorities listed in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It's not a question. On the other hand, those who are not heterosexual orientations of this provision if it is introduced into the Croatian Constitution, I think that we all agree on this, will in no way compromise because the basis of other laws will bring all those rights which will be equal to all the rights that persons of non-heterosexual orientation enjoy in all other European Union countries. So when we get to the bottom of the problem, we have one simple question, one simple thesis that doesn't endanger anyone, and the question is why is this such a problem? Members of some political parties in this Croatian Assembly actually have a problem with the majority opinion of Croatian citizens. We cannot accept the majority opinion of the vast majority of Croatian citizens and their attitudes in everything except in what is not ours and is not part of our worldview, our ideological, life-long, sexual commitment. It's not fair, it's not fair. So we live in Croatia, we live here where we live, in this country as it is with this people as it is. And on the other hand, if God is to declare today the decision on this referendum to all those who are against, and I am not in those, I am in favour, he will have the right to conduct the campaign and all those who are against clearly go to the referendum and vote against. But to say that the referendum will then when it is voted and if it is against, then we will make a decision and install into the Constitution, or we will not put into the Constitution that definition of marriage as a community of men and women. And if most of the people's will is for then we will establish in the Croatian Constitution that marriage is a community of men and women and we do not see the reasons in the club HDSSB that at all this is being pursued by the polemic because it really does not endanger anyone, but it strengthens the concept of marriage in the Croatian Constitution and we will welcome it anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55726	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the motion for a decision to call a national referendum. Please state by raising your hand who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes with 104 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 5 abstentions were decided on calling the state referendum in the text as proposed by the proposal along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55727	Now we're going to move on to one question of life. - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 493; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the proposal will be explained by Deputy Minister of Health Marijan Cesarik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55728	Thank you very much. The final proposal of the Law amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, in accordance with the proposal of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, proposes to regulate compulsory health insurance, regular students over 26 years of age who can no longer be compulsory health insurance on the basis of their status as a regular student in accordance with the mandatory health insurance law applicable from 1 July 2013. In accordance with that proposal, regular students, regardless of their age of life or time of enrolment of a regular study, may acquire insurance status in compulsory health insurance on the basis of their status as a regular student and retain that status for a total duration of 8 years, on that basis, if the right to compulsory health insurance does not qualify under some other legal basis, for example, on the basis of the right to pension on the so-called ‘requirement’. a family pension, as a family member through spouses, based on unemployment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on compulsory health insurance whose amendments are proposed is the right to compulsory health insurance for pupils and students over 18 years of age who are regularly educated in the Republic of Croatia and other Member States of the European Union in such a way as to ensure that the status of insurance workers can be achieved by the end of the school year or the end of the academic year in which they have completed their regular education but no longer than 26 years of age. Earlier in force, the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which was applied until 30 June 2013, did not prescribe a limitation in the duration of the insurance status based on regular schooling. Already regular students retained the status until the end of the school year in which they completed their regular education. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has defined the implementation of the Lifelong Learning Strategy in the area of higher education as one of its strategic objectives and, among other things, underlines the need to take measures to enable the inclusion of persons over 25 years of age in academic education, to reduce the abandonment of the already started studies at higher schools, and to enable a return to the higher education system after shorter or longer breaks. The Republic of Croatia has a very small share of students in the higher education system who are over 24 years old. Unlike other European Union countries, various measures need to continuously encourage the participation of adults in study programmes and an important aspect of the realisation is to ensure certain student rights for all those involved in the system of higher education with the status of a regular student regardless of the age limit. One of the most important student rights in the field of November is the right to compulsory health insurance. Currently in the higher education system, according to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, 8 thousand and 26 students who have 26 years of age, so only 7.95% of the total number of current students with student rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55729	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the HDZ Club and counterpart Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55730	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, at first, let me say, of course, the HDZ Club will support this amendment to the law. What I want to say, however, is that we are now actually correcting one mistake by this change. One mistake that was made only four months ago when this law was amended for the fourth time in 2012. I know someone might say so he's changed more than once in 2011, in the '10s, and that's true, but that's not good. It's not good for the stability of the state to change the laws every so much because then this is exactly what happens. With a quick check of over 8,000 students who are regular students, and over 26 years of age, they have lost health insurance covered and with 31 October, many of them have found themselves in a very invisible position because for them the amount of money they were supposed to give in no way, it is 357 kuna in particular, in no case small for many of them, especially today in the economic state of Croatia in which we are located. When the law changed four months ago for the third time then, it was said that this was due to an emergency procedure because we need to comply with the European Union. If I wanted to be bad, I could now ask why we are not in line with the European Union now, so now we have to change it again. Of course, that wasn't even the real reason, and today we know why we have to do it. However, I want to do it once again, as I have pointed out down the road that it is not good over and over and over again, only because they are aware that they can do it and that they have most hands to vote the laws that are then very quickly shown in some details, and sometimes in large things that are inappropriate and which must then be changed. And here we have such a case, it's good to correct a mistake but it's not a good thing to do and it's good and I hope that the mistakes will be rarer, or that from the successive mistakes that have been made they'll learn something and that the law by emergency will be very, very little, and that they will be much more thoroughly prepared, discussed in order for these laws to really be such that they don't have to change every few months. One more thing I see here, and it's not good again. We constantly get laws that say that their effect is financially neutral. My colleagues and colleagues, we all know that there is practically no law whose effect is completely neutral. Of course, this is going to cost a lot, not much compared to other things, but it's definitely going to cost. And when it is said that this money will be resolved so that redistribution within the division of the Ministry of Anyone again means that some other part of the money will be taken away and we have to be aware of that. Thus, the nonsense is that we are constantly getting on the benches of laws that convince us that the implementation of this law will cost nothing, and then in real life later we see that it costs a lot. Therefore, this law will cost something, and it would be much better if it were immediately written. I especially need to look at one bizarreness, namely when students were pressured by the situation, so over 8,000 students were trying to draw attention to the need to change it then at one point, in fact, after they had warned that it had not been solved, even in summer then the Minister of Science, Education and Sports Mr. Jovanovic resented that they did not really warn in time that the problem would appear. This is the highlight of bizarreness and cynicism, so students had to warn that a significant number of students would in some ways be damaged in the emergency law. I hope so, and I will say it again that the laws we will receive in the future will not make such mistakes, so there will be no need to correct them again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55731	On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55732	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let me start by saying that the SDP club will support amendments and additions to the mandatory health insurance law. We also support the urgency of the procedure because we consider it justified in this case. The amendments proposed relate to only a few articles, however, are both essential and important changes to Article 7 which, as we have heard, regulates the right to compulsory health insurance of pupils and students over 18 years of age who regularly study in the Republic of Croatia or in another country of the European Union. The law that entered into force before the summer break provides that the right to compulsory health care is therefore subject to the age of 26, however, it did not take into account the fact that not everyone was necessarily enrolled immediately after graduation. The fact has been ignored that a number of students have the status of a regular student and after 26 years of age. So a theoretically young man can start studying with 22 years of medicine, for example. And at 26 he'll still be a regular student. The media mentioned a figure of over 8,000, but here we have a precise number and colleague Reiner mentioned it. In the system of higher education according to ministry data, there are currently 8026 students who are 26 years old, so this is about 8% of the total number and their status is necessarily regulated. The right to compulsory health insurance is one of the most important rights of regular students in the field of student standards and, in terms of length of life, other student rights such as food subsidies, scholarships, housing during study, etc. The fact of the prescribed duration of individual studies should also be respected, particularly integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies. Of course, the right to compulsory health insurance is not crucial in the motivation of young people to get college education, but it is not irrelevant. Young people can find that true truth by some other basis. We heard from the assistant minister, but we at the SDP club think this regulation of regular students is much better than the previous one. So that the maximum duration of regular students' health insurance does not last until 26 years, but lasts 8 years. So no matter when the study began. This solution is much better, it's much more real, much more useful and will certainly be more effective. Therefore, the SDP club supports amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55733	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55734	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, in fact, repairing the bill as it should actually be called this legislative proposal, repair, correction, whatever legislative proposal we have made in July this year. And here's only three months after that, four of us have a correction, a revision of this law that says on page 3 that this is necessary while respecting negative demographic trends. Carefully, this will fix demographics quite safely, with various measures continuously encouraging the participation of adults in the study programmes. Just because of mandatory health insurance, everyone's going to go to college. And an important aspect of the realisation of strategic objectives is the provision of certain student rights to all those involved in a higher education system with the status of a regular student regardless of age. I'd say that's the kind of explanation that ad hoc was drawn up and given to explain something about the change in that first legislative proposal that was in effect for three, four months. 26 years as an age limit for regular education at higher universities in Croatia is the very fact that there are over 8,000 who have passed 26 years and are still regular students, or as a percentage of about 7 and a half percent, somewhere around 100 thousand have students in Croatia. So 8000 are those who have passed 26 years of age and are regularly studying. And after I don't say little riots and the students are very awkward and everything's fine until the students complain. When students rebel, a little different looks are made at the matter, because the people suffer and keep quiet, but the students won't and won't. And here, and now we've even introduced another newspaper, or change. Therefore, the EU Directive, i.e. the EU Regulation, was misspelled. So she switched numbers as well. How well it was written was the law that the number of EU regulations was wrong. So, about the sloppyness and negligence that exists when writing the law or about the mistake I don't know what kind or what kind of things I wouldn't talk about. Most of the HDSSB club will be to repair the legal change with the fact that all students of this law, regardless of their enrolment, have the right to 8 years of health insurance, which implies exactly the question asked by Professor. Reiner how much it will cost and how in the state budget, that is, in the Treasury, we will find the money for it even though here in the assessment of the funds, so Chapter III. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, So one is an equilibristic verbal that tries to explain that it will be placed somewhere in health insurance funds that there is no need to write that it will still cost something. In any case, we support the adoption of this, let's be serious about this legislative proposal, which is already for who knows which times in a row. Well, with all these repairs, I hope it won't be changed so soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55735	Thank you. And now we have another individual debate, colleague Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55736	Thank you. Well, here I am in favour of this change of law. In fact, the moment it turned out that health insurance up to 26 years of age was immediately seen that it simply could not be valid for students, among other things, because last year it was aimed at the purpose of lifelong education to colleges or universities of the day and quotas of regular students over 25 years of age because it has been re-percussed to the writing of state graduates etc. I think the proposals are good, but I'm still going to hand over two amendments because I think the next one is important. Namely, it's okay to say that it lasts necessarily, that they have the right to insurance for 8 years based on, therefore, regular enrolment. I think that deadline is fine, but that it could potentially be longer because there is an institution resting student status. For various reasons, often there are students who have to sit still for one or two years because they are unable to attend school regularly. I'm saying, most of the time it's a disease when it's necessary. So my amendment would go in the sense that these 8 years can be extended with the possibility of extending that 8-year period based on the rest of student status. So, all universities have statutes on which students can seek status rest. And I think it's justifiable, and in that case even such students may even need that healthcare professional even more. So the amendment would also go to that that 8-year-old could potentially be extended for the time for which it was granted a standstill in student status. Secondly, this law applies to students studying in Croatia and students studying in EU countries. Otherwise, a year and a half ago, we gave one question because already there was a problem before we were a member of the EU for students who were regular students, let's say even in neighbouring countries a lot. And it's said to be dealt with by law. The law now applies only to students in Croatia or the EU, but there is certainly a significant number of regular students studying in non-EU countries, Switzerland, Russia, perhaps especially for music or certain ballet things in Russia. So in America they can study, Australia, New Zealand, so China, Japan has become attractive lately. There are a whole series of countries that are affordable and that grant scholarships to our students. They may pay them health insurance in that country, but the question is what happens when they might come over the summer or for some long time. Therefore, my second amendment would go to allow such health insurance to be made possible to regular students and other countries, not only in other EU Member States. I think these are serious problems for these students and that these amendments would certainly have the support to make it easier for them to study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55737	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55738	I Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 493. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the IDS Representatives' Club and by an independent representative of Furi Radin. I ask the Deputy Minister of Health of the Honored Marijana Cesarik to be shown on Amendment No. 1 of the IDS Representatives Club and Independent Representative Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55739	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55740	An explanation, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55741	The proposed amendment cannot be accepted because it is proposed to amend Article 7. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act is fully regulated by compulsory health insurance of regular students who regularly study in the Republic of Croatia and EU Member States in a way that provides them with compulsory health insurance based on regular study for a total duration of 8 years regardless of their age if they do not exercise their right to compulsory health insurance on a second basis. In accordance with the legislative proposal of Article 7(1), points 14 and 15 are mandatory to ensure and obtain the status of the insurance undertaking. Regular pupils of secondary schools and regular high-school students over 18 years of life who are nationals of the Republic of Croatia and have residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia or of nationals of the Republic of Croatia resident in another Member State who have an approved temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia provided that they are not compulsory health insurance in another Member State, as well as foreigners with an approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia. that this right can be used for the longest to the end of the school year or until the end of the academic year in which they have completed their regular education, and for the longest period of 8 years on this basis, if the right to compulsory health insurance is not achieved on a second basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55742	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. On behalf of the promoter of the IDS Club and Furia Radina, the respected representative of Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55743	So the proposed law is much better than before where most students would not have the right to health care among other things because last year, in support of the learning of older people, we introduced the possibility of someone being a regular student at the age of 25 and over. But I think you're forgetting one thing that maybe they probably rejected from the Ministry of Science after all. In the study itself, you have the ability to stay on the status that can be rarely used and it is often unfortunately due to diseases, car accidents where a student does not study, there is a standstill of status sometimes for a year or two days, and I usually say that because of the disease. In that case, I believe that my amendment would remain these eight years, but that deadline could be extended for those years where I can do the most I think twice during the study means it would extend to the deadline for which the student is for justified reasons because it must be in the statute extending the status. These justified reasons are most often to say whether the disease, the car accident, and the birth of a child. I think it's entirely justified because it's a small number, but there's a need. They may need that health care the most. So it's just that the period of rest of student status is being treated for an additional 8 years if necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55744	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55745	Yeah, that vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55746	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on Amendment number 1 of the IDS Representatives Club and an independent representative of Furi Radina, which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number two of the same club, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55747	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Regular secondary school students and regular higher education students in other Member States above the age of 18 who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and who have their place of residence in the Republic of Croatia, as well as those with an approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, with the right to use this right for the longest time until the end of the school year or the end of the academic year in which they have completed regular schooling according to the rules of the country of education, and for the longest period of 8 years, on that basis, if the right to compulsory health insurance is not achieved on a second basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55748	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55749	So this part, in fact, of the same article, states that these 8 years have the right to students who are Croatian citizens if they are studying at higher universities in Croatia or in the member states of the Union. However, you have a number of students who can study in Europe Switzerland, Russia etc. in America, which is not a Member State and on this basis, if they come home for, say, summer, they do not have the right to compulsory health insurance. My proposal is that if he is a student, a regular student anywhere in any country, this right to compulsory health care should be recognised, not only in EU countries as indicated in your proposal. There are a significant number of them going to study outside Europe. China has been popular lately, Russia, Japan and those if they simply come to Croatia, that and Bosnia say, I think anywhere that a regular student should exercise the right. And just to point out that a year and a half ago we asked when we were not a member of Europe that then students from Croatia had no right anywhere to study. And a huge number of them studied outside of Croatia. So I think it would be an office for students to have the right when they come home for mandatory health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55750	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55751	Yes, yes, the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55752	I'd like to make a statement on Amendment number two of the IDS Representatives Clubs that the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking that we speak with our hands up. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I confirm that, unanimously with 122 votes, the amendment and supplementation of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act in the text is proposed by the Proposer without the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55753	And tonight we will discuss - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on scientific activity and higher education, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 490 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The bill will be explained by the science, education and sports minister of counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55754	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Very briefly, in the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, we want to address several basic issues. First of all, remove the cohesion in the normative definition with the aim of harmonising those provisions and the urgent appointment of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development and the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education. So at this point, we have one conflict in the way in which the members are elected and proposed by the two bodies where we correct that cohesion in the way it was planned in the debate that took place in the past period and in the adoption of the amendments in July. And this is that members of these committees propose to the Croatian Parliament the Croatian government. In addition, we would also like to coordinate the choice of members of the administrative councils of the university and of the higher schools, remove the normative conflict for the selection of candidates in the artistic calling of an art associate and to the appropriate workplace, and since it will take some time to elect members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development in transitional provisions, we would like to prescribe criteria of scientific, or teaching excellence in accordance with which they would allow scientists and teachers who have completed 65 years of working for a certain time in those cases where there is a need to continue their work. Also, in agreement with the public high schools of the Republic of Croatia, we want to improve the system of student IDs. Taking into account all of the above, and more than clear why these amendments and additions to the Law on scientific activity and higher education are needed to adopt an emergency procedure so that the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development and the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education can begin work as soon as possible. For the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the state budget and we also note that a public debate has been held for the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55755	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55756	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to say, it's sad that I don't know what time we're discussing it in the late hours when there's about 10% of us here in the assembly. And I can't help thinking that maybe it's not an accident because it's not often about the kind of topics that the academic community has a lot of objections to discuss in front of an empty practically public meeting room, not at a time when television is out of it. And that's not good. That's what I used to say on many occasions, just when we discussed various laws related to the academic community. We have a series of objections on this proposal. A series of objections is related to how a public debate was conducted. It was formally conducted, but it was carried out during the period when actually academic institutions work I would say by reduced drive, slightly speaking, and it satisfied the naturally formality from September 4th to September 19th. Time exams, time of a whole series of other things going on in the academic community. So it certainly wasn’t a good time to discuss an important law. What is also to be said by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports did not actually respect any of the observations received. The argument was that these remarks were principled, do not refer to the subject matter of the public debate but, on the other hand, to the draft which we have before us were included provisions that were not at all subject to the public debate. It is certainly not good and not only is it contrary to the code of consultation with the interested public but it is not good in essence because again it happens, of course, I do not have any illusions on Friday following the party's vote and such a law. What we should say when we talk about this proposal is that this proposal changes something that is not good. So the change is not good, I am correcting myself, and it is actually that although we were discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education during the debate on the previous version of the Law on 15 July, then the Minister, before the law was passed, adopted on behalf of the motions and remarks proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, including the proposal that candidates for members of the National Council and the Committee on Ethics be established on the basis of a public call by the Parliamentary Committee on Education, Science and Culture. It is now proposed on the contrary, now it is proposed that the government do so. It is absolutely certain that this is not good and it is quite certain that it would be a much better solution to have a constituency committee that also has external members, therefore members of the academic community of stakeholders etc. and not only do I say it like that to politicians, as a broader body, so I dare say a much more professional body than the Government proposes members of the National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development and members of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education. This change of colleagues and colleagues in particular colleagues and colleagues from the ruling party means that you give up, we will be against it, of course, but that you deny the right to participate as parliamentary representatives in something that is very important at least for the academic community. You're going to give up another piece of your right to the government on Friday, and that's something that happens in a series of laws, actually crawling across the power from this Parliament to the government. I just want to make it very clear that you're aware of what you're going to do when you raise your hands for it on Friday, and I have no doubt you'll do it. What we would say is that we absolutely propose to keep the provisions in the law that the composition of the National Council should be proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. He is a representative body representing the academic community and the danger of making his proposals and decisions by limiting himself to narrow political commitment is certainly much less than when the government does. The second part of which we have very much an observation is related to the assessment of teaching and professional activities in the selection process in scientific and teaching titles where there are proposed criteria of excellence that have no basis either in the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education or in the Rules on conditions of choice in scientific titles or in the terms of the Rules of Procedure, and in particular, regardless of the concept of excellence itself. Of course, at the same time, it will violate the constitution of the guaranteed position of university autonomy and academic freedoms because it will now take over the role that the legal powers and competences would play but also have to be the academic community. So if we look at these criteria then we can see that the first criterion is that the approacher has published the number and type of work needed to choose in scientific terming scientific associate over the last five years. So I'm talking about the lowest calling in the science system. The second criterion is that in the last five years, the candidate has been a leader or associate of an active competitive national scientific project financed by the Croatian Foundation for Science, or some other institutions, by virtue of the equalization of this. Of course, every scientist is expected to work on scientific projects, therefore it is not some criterion of excellence, but with this moment in Croatia we have major problems. Namely, the Croatian Foundation for Science recently issued a public call for competitive scientific projects, the results will probably be known only in the spring, and there is a whole series of people who are now in that state, so they have age and it is important to extend them or not to extend their working relationship at the university, it should be launched now this month, next month, January etc., and there are no such projects. The old ones stopped, the new ones are gone, and it's going to open up a whole series of problems. The other criteria of excellence are that the candidate must have an excellent rating, i.e. with 5 estimated results of a November survey in each individual year in the previous five-year period. This is a special problem because, of course, the thread is in accordance with any conditions, the conditions of the rector's choir, European quality assurance standards, etc. Because we don't actually have the obligation and regulation to evaluate teachers through a student survey and especially not polls at all as such in the order of the law. On the other hand, the situation is slightly different, but still very complex. Because the conditions of the rector's assembly provide for institutional research into the quality of the teaching work of a single teacher who can and does not have to include a student survey. In real life, colleagues and colleagues of the student survey are not conducted for each teacher every year, and that is a fact. Of course, they include a whole series of questions about the work of teachers who, however, still do not necessarily have to offer scores from 1 to 5 in response. They include sometimes comments and suggestions from students to improve teachers' work and raise the quality of colleges but I repeat do not include very often a numerical assessment. And then of course we're in trouble again. The institutional research on the quality of teaching work also includes many elements other than the student survey that I repeat is not conducted for individual teachers at all institutions for each year. And so these elements of institutional research of the quality of teaching work are also different. So it can, it can be mentoring students, scientific papers published in the collaboration of mentors, or teachers with students in co-authorship. Authorization of various scripts, introduction of new teaching content and method, introduction of EU learning into the teaching process, peer review, i.e. the historical evaluation of the quality of teaching, etc. The problem, therefore, is with this amendment to the law that and who makes up the concept of teaching excellence of a single teacher only for the assessment of an excellent sequence of student surveys that I do not once again stress at all universities each year, we will find a huge problem for each teacher. And I don't know how it's gonna be done. Therefore, I suggest that it is not forced by the urgent procedure of these amendments to the law because they will believe in the best intention of repairing a series of new problems. And it's quite certain, and we announced it, and when four months ago, once again in an urgent, haste, the previous version of the law, that in four months or six months, new and perhaps even earlier, I'm afraid, a new version of the amendments to this law will come. Therefore, we suggest caution and suggest that this is not an emergency procedure, but rather a right to consult with all interested people, especially the academic community. And then bring a regulation that will be sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55757	Damir tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55758	Thank you, Vice President, here's my colleague Reiner, the second time today, that I've spent my paper writing what you've been saying, I almost lost my will to the replica, so I almost gave up, and I don't know where to go because so much of what you've said is, I get the impression that everything's about you pushing some story about the party track all the time. How burdened you are by this party called the SDP, that's terrible. But it fascinated me that you mentioned the 9th month and the reduced drive of the work of the people who can participate in the public debate. That's fascinating to me. It's almost incredible that you who come from the academic community as an academic are talking about reduced labour drive. So what makes you so right? You insult every man who works in a higher education system. I come from that system and I never felt like a person who at the 9th month of reduced drive of work. That's terrible. In fact, I'll just remind you that apart from the reduced drive of work at the 9th month, it's been talking about this law that's been going on for months. What are we talking about? It's just like you asked for a break this morning on behalf of the club about a referendum to consult. About what? About something you caused a year ago and you've been beating the Croatian public for a year and now it takes you 10 minutes to consult. So who's crazy about it? It says here what we're gonna do on Friday. What you call it, we will vote on this law exactly as Minister Jovanovic suggested. You're calling for some kind of problem here, we're going to cause what, nuclear cataclysm with this law. How can you not be embarrassed? You know what this is about, so here's Shucker, the gentleman throwing himself off the bench, that's what this is about. You know what this is about? I'll tell you openly, you sat down on a colleague of Jovanovic As a party from that moment on, the last sentence, from.../The speaker shut down... [[Thank you very much. Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55759	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Željko Reiner. Here's my colleague Reiner. Don't yell from the bench. I'm a colleague of Tomic's. ... Please, please, allow your colleague Reiner to respond to the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55760	Thank you very much. Here, of course, I'm not going to answer like this, and I don't really see any reason to be upset. I admit I was wrong in the formulation. The first two weeks, and you know it very well, and as I said, the period of exams, the period of reduced opportunity to hold college councils, to hold all these meetings, and that was what I said. Well, you've caught on to it, and of course you've developed stories about everything that has and doesn't matter. However, I expected you to say that some of what I said was wrong or that I was wrong or that some of it wasn't right what I said but I didn't hear it from you. I heard a Filipino about political relations that I wouldn't go into. We are now talking about this bill and I think it's good to talk about whether some solutions are good or some solutions are bad, and let this go for some other moments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55761	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55762	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Academy Reiner, here are just a few things I'd like to look back on. If you're talking about the urgent procedure of the law, I'd like you to ask only your colleague, Mlakar, how much of the law he passed in the regular procedure. I wasn't a member of this respectable home at the time, but I can count those laws on the fingers of one hand. That's it. You're talking about hours when we pass these laws. The Croatian Qualifications Committee was adopted in a later period than this one. There were twice as many people from your club as there were now, and now we're looking at those who were there, and it's a great honor for those who really contributed to that debate. Comrade Reiner, you weren't. I don't want to prejudge, you may have had some other obligations and such, but in my view it was the crown law in the term of this ministry, I mean the law that passed from the mandate of the former governments, but the law that has definitely been passed and will, in my opinion, bring the revolution into the qualification system in the Republic of Croatia at all. counterpart Tomic said something about reduced capacities. I absolutely reject it as a man who spent most of his working life just in the education system, including high, not so much debt. People who work in high school are the cream de la creme of what we have to offer in science and continue and say that they at one point have reduced capacity, especially when it is their duty to be in the workplace is by me at least maligning. And teaching scientific interference, therefore, of what you talked about in the last part of your presentation, would be the same thing to be discussed. Is someone a good teacher not necessarily meant to be a good scientist and vice versa, but I believe that the strategy of science and education will solve and that we will have some legal solutions that we will then be able to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55763	Replication response, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55764	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow, again, I'm surprised because you've taken on the course of what I've corrected is like a wrong formulation, and yet you haven't said or disputed anything I've said. I expected you to say that I said something wrong, either about the choice method, whatever I said about the temporary criteria of excellence or some of what I specifically mentioned. You haven't really challenged any of it again, and I expected to talk about it, see if I'm wrong, maybe we misjudge things, but I'd like to hear the arguments about it, but I haven't heard them before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55765	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55766	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, someone here after your political, ideological part of the exposure you've put in your debate has asked what it's called. It used to be called democratic centralism, today it's called increasing the concentration of power in the hands of the government, the ministry. Therefore, the transfer of powers of the election of members and presidents of the National Science Council from the Council of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is called an increase in the concentration of power. The reason for this move is very promiscuous, and it says very nicely that the MPs are tired, cloned, disabled, burdened even though the media otherwise claim that we are unemployed, that we are doing nothing. So because of us tired and overworked MPs, the government better do it, and I know the government works 20 hours a day. I don't know who's more loaded. I suppose the government is in view of all possible emergency procedures, haste procedures, etc. And here we will by will tomorrow, by democratic will, and not by the terror of the majority in the Croatian Parliament, so tomorrow we will vote this law, or they will vote it and it will be as they have decided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55767	Replication response, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55768	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Grubisic, I didn't deliberately quote this explanation, which is why I would say that I didn't mean to quote it to the Parliament or the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, and one more thing to teach in the government's intelligence because it's so cynical, I would say that I simply didn't mean to quote it, but you saw it correctly, and now, of course, we're going back to those relationships from the morning, by making the decision of most of the day after tomorrow we're relieved for one part of our burden, so maybe in the future, we'll be more and more relieved of the various burdens, so we can be calmly clear and summer here and without too much burden of deciding on behalf of those who chose us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55769	Walter Boluncic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55770	Thank you. Well, here's what we're going to do. Let's get on with the election of members of the National Council. In fact, this proposal solves therefore obvious confusion in the law that we have two different procedures, but we can say that the National Councils, which were so far were the same as so far, so on the Government's proposal, the Parliament voted on national councils. So far, it has not been a procedure for the board to carry out the whole procedure as such. Furthermore, the government makes a proposal on the basis of what has been achieved, let's say, the candidacy by the Rector's Assembly, the Senate of the University, the College Councils, etc. I would also refer to the fact that you claim that this law will be passed under party lines. At least I don't think it's me. You can look at a series of important laws where party discipline was not valid, and for this law a year and a half ago I was the only member of the board when it was prolonged, so that the law was then passed with some minor changes that were later included in this situation would not have been present today because they would probably have a formed national council. And those rules of choice problems, up to these conditions for staying after 65 years, would have been resolved if that had been solved a year and a half ago. So for me, this is not an emergency procedure, but rather a procedure that should have been resolved a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55771	Replication response, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55772	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Boluncic, of course, it would have been better if we had solved some things sooner, but we haven't solved them. And I have to admit, no matter how many things have been dealt with before, etc. It seems to me that the solution to which the Committee on Science, Education and Culture is responsible for proposing is certainly much better, so I dare say much more democraticly than if the Government does. And that's why I don't think it's a good idea to change that, and if you want to define it that way, we're going back to what was before, and that's what the government decides about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55773	And Lidija Bagaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55774	I'd like to thank the esteemed vice president. Well, here's a colleague of Reiner you accused us and you and your colleague Grubisic all over this side of the country of terrorism seem to be the entire Croatian public. Not you, okay. I don't know how much of a disaster we're going to make by raising our hands, taking away the rights of the Parliament, and leaving them so easily to the government, that we can't bear that great burden. But I want to remind you that the Parliament never did, and here's my colleague Boluncic already mentioned that he had that right. Until now, the Parliament has not elected, or proposed, members of the National Council, so that I do not see what has happened so significantly. And if that's so important and you think the Parliament should have done it, then I ask you why in the previous term you didn't launch an initiative to make this huge responsibility and this so important issue be on the side of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55775	Replication response, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55776	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleagues, I didn't say first that you were terrorizing. Those aren't my words, I didn't say that, so if we're quoting something then let's quote it correctly. Secondly, it's in the current law now, and now we're changing it, so we're changing it now, and now in the current law that we've voted on, it's being elected by the parliamentary board. Now we're changing it and giving it to the government. And I think, and I am deeply convinced that this is not a good solution and that it would be better to remain the solution that is in the existing law. It's just that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55777	We'll move on to an individual debate. He's a colleague of Valter Boluncic's. Therefore, these amendments to the law by emergency procedure come because some of the shortcomings in the first proposal were identified, and also because certain rules, i.e. the selection of national authorities, were not completed until, and because of these illogicalities could not have been made which greatly affected some items in the law specifically on the remainder of the work after 65 years. So I personally support the law. As I said, I believe it should have been brought before, that it brings news and positive changes to the system of science and higher education. The election of the National Council remains, therefore, in the Government, i.e. The proposal to the Assembly but based on proposals received by the Rector's Assembly, the Senate of the University, the College Councils and the Academic Community, and in the end, it would have been such a procedure. I'm not sure that the procedure for the election of the National Council through the Parliament would go so quickly that the new national council that is now becoming one could take over all actions. However, what has also caused a very large one, so dialogue in the community is the condition of working remains after 65 years in the education system on the ministry's burden. Since the part is in charge of a national council that it does not have because the old one has ceased, the minister's proposal is therefore to put into law provisions that would be valid from that moment until a new national council is formed. She thinks it could happen in 90 days. Perhaps too optimistic, but let's say somewhere April or May next year a national council could be elected. The part relating to staying on the burden, so the ministry refers to quality personnel and there are two conditions. One is a scientific one, one is a teaching one. The scientific condition speaks of two things. This is the number of papers published in the last 5 years which would otherwise have been sufficient in the rules for calling elections by the National Council to choose the lowest scientific title. The second section relating to scientific work refers to participation as, therefore, as a leader or as a project associate, and the third part, that is, the part relating to the teaching part, is the part that requires that in the last five years the rating is five in the polls. As far as this goes, it's to determine first. So these conditions apply only to those scientists who remain on the ministry's burden after 65 years. The law states that after 65 years, any scientist, or scientist, can remain on the burden of his own resources, and these conditions do not apply to him. So this applies only to those paid by the ministry. As long as we can agree with this section on the scientific part, although it has some opinion that this should be some well-deserved status that five years should not be published, I still believe that the last five years before retirement should be shown to the papers, however, as regards the teaching part of the grades five particularly written in a way that may suggest and that four and a half years are out of the question is therefore additionally high, especially because perhaps even teachers in the permanent title are not being conducted a survey or perhaps according to doctoral studies where they are not conducted. So I'm going to give an amendment to this article relating to this part of the teaching section where I would suggest that those who can stay on the ministry's burden have a very good or excellent score, in brackets 3.5 or more. Therefore, the average rating is 3.5 or higher, the estimated results of the student survey each year in which the survey was conducted during the previous five-year period. This implies, among other things, that if the survey was not conducted that they should not be handed over. So in those years when the survey was conducted, if that teacher was evaluated, the rating should be 3.5 or higher than I consider to be a decent border. So I'll vote for this law. I think it's an emergency procedure for getting rid of it. Some other suggestions that may have been heard on both the Assembly Committee and others may not be bad. I mean, that doesn't mean if you have two suggestions that one's good and the other's bad. The only thing that can be good is that it may be more prone to one or the other, but I think this kind of proposal eventually, even though I say there is this question of whether these conditions should be put into law, that in the fastest possible way, it solves that question. Because there are already scientists who turned 65 in the previous academic year, so when they were 30.09. In 1.10, their status stopped, and we would like to stay in the system and the question is how, how, how, when we do not have the conditions of the national council, how. So, once again, I support this with the amendment that I think, especially in this teaching section, it is still necessary to reduce that grade to 5 to 3.5 or more, because in the very evaluation of teachers by students, different things should be taken into account. Is it big groups, smaller, lower age, older age? These are all the things that we do in the system know what the difference is in them. Once again I say I will support this law and not because of the party discipline, but because I think that law is good and that something should have been solved before. And if you see any mistakes then at least, I see a mistake I try to change. So, to explain that if something changes that it's bad, why? Better to change a mistake than let her go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55779	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55780	Thank you very much. Dear and esteemed colleague Boluncic, I appreciate your attitude and the opinion that you will support this legislative proposal. And clearly I can't talk you out of it, nor is it my intention. However, the previous law stated that members and presidents of the National Council were appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, taking care of the representation of representatives in the field of science and art and the region. So, that region. You're from Istrian County, although the region is actually official and there are no nonexistent but it says so. The amendments to this law no longer mention the region, no more regions as some kind of factor which would be decisive in selecting members or president of the National Council. Furthermore, you said and we see on the benches that there is an amendment to this legislative proposal and that it is a good point for you to make that assessment go down to 3.5 or more. That's good. But what I wonder is, will you, even if the amendment doesn't pass your vote for this bill?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55781	Replication response, Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55782	... The previous composition of the National Council was no one from Istria, I'm not sure. [[Specially turn on the microphone.]] But much, it is an important thing, but it is much more important that in the National Council's Rules of Labour it must take care of the political development of Croatia. And we have had a lot of examples from some universities that are rebelling and think they are broken as if they think I don't know 10 km from Zagreb shouldn't spend money on science. And it was nice to take care of the politic development of Croatia. And that's where I agree with you. Now the Parliament will vote, and we will vote anyway, at least I will watch regional representations be. It's one of the basics, and as you say, at least I'm coming from Istria. As far as this grade is concerned, so 3.5 I hope the government will appreciate it because if it takes a grade 5 as it's written, it's too elimination. I think that part will be appreciated, so I wouldn't say in advance whether I'm going to vote against or for. I think it's an amendment that makes sense. And regional representation I hope will be respected even more in that part that the National Council must take care of the politic development of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55783	Damir Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55784	Thank you, Vice President. Personally, I absolutely support this 3.5 proposal of yours, and I wouldn't comment on it any further. As far as conditions are concerned, in general, in this society, I think we're a little bit hypersensitive as a people when it comes to the introduction of order in society. And we're very sensitive to change. We've been involved in 20 years of riots, and whenever there's a line in this society, there's structures, there's parts of society that are rebelling. Will the introduction of order always lead to good results we do not know? But let's let the people who put in order at least that and admit that they're trying. Also, colleague Boluncic, the amendments to the laws you mentioned in this presentation may be going to new changes soon, it is not disputed. Let us not ignore the fact that this government and this minister, the first in 22 years of an independent Croatian state, 23, raised the issue of the Education Strategy. Of course, this strategy will certainly cause new changes to the law. I am very happy to remember my first debate in this House when I said about one of the laws of the education palette, where it is fortunate that in the 1990s we had any education strategy she would today produce young people who would change this society. We unfortunately didn't have it. We expect this government through the Education Strategy to do just that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55785	Would you like to answer that? The answer to the replica of Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55786	Thank you. So I fully agree with you and once again I say you don't need to slave the fact that if something needs to be changed then change something better if there's been a change in the system or... some mistake than making your own who didn't make any mistake. The strategy here is at a public debate, last year's policy guidelines, now a strategy has been made, it is two months, and I think it's more like a 15.11. debate, means enough time, and I'm sure it will be found with remarks that are a consensus at the level of all Croatia about what we need in education and science, and that maybe some tensions that have occurred over the past year will calm down all with the desire for science, education not only science, education from kindergarten, because it is very important to take that place in the society that it needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55787	She's a colleague of Ivanka Roksandić's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55788	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do, and I won't be long about this debate, and I think my colleague Reiner said almost everything on behalf of the club, and I've come forward for all of us, especially colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. In July of the month after a long debate on the amendment and addition of this Act, we all accepted amendments, adopted them if they were amended by the Committee. And imagine, these proposals were generally accepted. Nothing out of the ordinary is whether or not they're accepted, either first or last time. But what happened now on the last board and what we experienced on the last board, I think we should talk about it, and all in light of the changes and additions to these now proposed laws that we adopted and that took effect on the 30th date of our fellow Members and colleagues, the 30th of July, and the 10th of the emergency procedure has already changed, and only some articles have. Imagine, that article relating to the proposal of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. And why is that? Because we dared to suggest that these members propose to mention the committee, that all MPs raised their hand for the amendment, and then as I said, it was good that you were there, Mr Zelenika, on the board that they could quote this "this amendment concerning the election of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development entered into the law because they did not understand Minister Jovanovic and President of the Assembly Mr Leko in the election of the amendments, so the amendment of the Committee passed". So I can tell you me as a longtime member of this board that really hurt you. Perhaps really out of honesty and I have no doubt that you wanted to explain to us on the board why, after two months, we are now changing what we have raised our colleagues and colleagues for and said, "Let's finally give this council committee a heads-up on something." to propose members of the National Council. If there was a conflict in proposing these two bodies, as the minister said today, I appreciate that, so why didn't we say that this was another body, maybe we forgot it in that proposal. It is also proposed by members and board members and adopted by this House. That's what I can tell you really maybe the real truth. It's not what we wanted, you've been able to change our original proposal to the ministry, and it's not how you want it to be, it's what the Minister and the Government want it to be, and we're going to further cite an explanation to propose and make decisions on who can or who will be a member of the National Science Council. Interesting colleagues and colleagues that you've all been involved in this. I agree that on this committee the last thing I'm talking about is five of you voted for these changes, four against, and one of you was abstention. So both colleagues and colleagues from your ranks, and so I would not speak and accuse us here, but I would wonder why, suddenly, for 360 degrees, some of us are changing our thinking and our opinions. And let's not say that some things aren't politically conditioned. I will not talk about these other amendments relating to the criteria for those scientists who may possibly conclude a further labour contract, if I believe that they will indeed be what is in the transitional and final provisions only the transitional time until the National Council brings these criteria new, but I would also agree that it is precedentd, precedentd to install such criteria into the law. Because if the University Community, and all of us as members and board members, have heard what the University Community says, that it has opposed such a way and these criteria, I think that yet these people the university is still autonomous, universities are autonomous, we have to listen. We're here for them and we have to listen to them. I think some of these amendments that are proposed here today should be respected but that doesn't justify the introduction into the law of criteria which can continue to work and who doesn't. It's usually special regulations, I only hope, that this is really and it will be voted upon, indeed just a transitional period until the National Council is formed, so it doesn't organise, so it brings real criteria. But I also hope that this National Council elected will not only be guided by these criteria that are here, I will say in some way by the Government, i.e. The resolution ministry is in charge of this. And precisely because of this procedure that we've heard from colleagues and colleagues, I can really say to the honorable cheek that these changes and complements with this argument cannot possibly accept. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55789	Damir Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55790	Thank you very much. I'm going to reverse. You mentioned the university community and the criteria. I really must tell you that I absolutely disagree with you which university community is against this law. If we're talking about rector Belish and his personal or what we're going to call interests, then we can talk about it as a university community. I've been talking to a bunch of people from the university community who absolutely support this bill. So what now? As far as the board is concerned, as far as differences in positions within the SDP are concerned, it is the SDP's strength. And as for that part of the story where we as a committee have a position and the executive authority disagrees, I'm going to tell you now that I'm coming from the education sector, my personal position on something that I'm going to give to the principal of high school, it's a personal attitude, it's not the party's position, but I think that's where we have to build the future of education. If we are as a government, like those who choose as a school board, we choose that school principal who chooses his associates, we should give him absolute autonomy. Despite the suggestions coming from either side. Politics got too involved in this. And I'm into the autonomy of those directors. I also believe that if we here in Parliament have given the amendment to the Government, to any minister as long as that is the case, that minister has a final word independent of the position of the board. Well, he doesn't run the ministry committee. We're here to make suggestions that will either accept or not the minister. Well, we can't be angry as little children if some proposal isn't accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55791	With one small difference, the amendments accept or do not accept the Croatian Parliament rather than the minister. Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55792	Thank you, Madam Vice President, so that's what I wanted to say to my colleague Tomic, this House will accept or not and he's accepted the amendment and there's no dilemma, it's contradictory, you killed yourself. I'm not a single rector or a single rector, but on a committee where you and I are sitting really representatives of the university community, there are distinguished deans sitting down, scientists sitting down, and we can't say that these are people who aren't possibly metrics to come to some conclusion. I agree with you, so democracy is why we live in such a society that you and I or someone 10 have different opinions. But you also said that you're for autonomy on the part of the principal. So let's let that university vote autonomy. Let's let that happen. And what of the fact that the university community was adopted in this law during the first debate? Absolutely or almost nothing. Your SDP strength and different views will be decided by counterpart Tomic on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55793	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55794	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Roksandić, I certainly think that you have every right to discuss these very things, but you are one of the few, I'm afraid of your club that discusses these laws every time. I'm not a member of the Committee, but I have to notice that you are a person who at least knows the name of that committee and is not a Committee on Science, Education and Culture but is a Committee on Education, Science and Culture. So we're going in some order. Even though I'm not a member of the board, here's the part I know. I would agree that this is a transitional time, this is the transitional time that I believe we will bring a strategy on and on the basis of that strategy means we will lay out, implement new laws that will then regulate our and higher education and science in the directions that we should make. So we also discussed the Croatian, Academy of Science and Arts report recently, and they also gave us guidelines on this strategy. So I believe that's where we really hired the best we've got. As far as autonomy is concerned, the university's autonomy is secured by the Constitution. This morning, we had a debate where we intend to bring into the Constitution all sorts of things, but the Constitution says that the university is autonomous. This is again, it's my personal position because we can talk about the autonomy of public money, but I am thinking while someone has my money that can't be absolutely autonomous and that's exactly what no one can account for. But it's a matter of constitution. We may have an initiative to change the Constitution at some point. But as long as we don't have it, that's how it is. Therefore, I agree with my colleague Boluncic, let's say in some of the things that practice imposes on us, so in the evaluation of teachers, it is therefore that we are guided by these slightly lower criteria but I believe that the next changes to the laws that will inevitably follow from the strategy will then finally regulate this system... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55795	Reply to the replica Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55796	Let's just take a minute, I'll look back at this part, not this part that applies to me, but I'll look back on what you said you're advocating for university autonomy, it's guaranteed by the Constitution, we all know that, but so you don't give full autonomy to those institutions that use public money, so there's a fellow control. Therefore, there is, above all, a control of the spending of this public money, and that does not mean that the independence of an institution should be reduced. If someone spends money on our citizens, I think there's a lot of institutions in this country that are controlled by financial institutions until the end of the State Audit that also visits universities, all universities, colleges, all public institutions, state institutions that don't count now and control the spending of money. So this, autonomy and spending money isn't exactly tied up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55797	Walter Boluncic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55798	Thank you. I would once again point out about this point of survival after 65 years, that this is about those who are burdened by the ministry. So for the remainder after 65 years if they are on their own resources they may remain any employee. As far as the ministry's burden is concerned, this decision is probably caused by almost 90% of the funds being paid because in the previous period anyone who has turned 65 has made a request and stayed. If the stay after 65 years had been guaranteed only the very necessary employees I could say that it was the way it was during Professor Fleg who was the minister, the issues of the remainder after 65 would probably not have been on the agenda at all because it would not have marked such a cost of the budget. That's a very important thing to me. And by the way, as far as this committee selection is concerned, I said there could be several ways of different, but by the way, I was also against, for the first time, being on the board, that we as a committee were carrying out that part, but of course, it remains in the law that the Parliament voted on a proposal from the Government to the members of the National Council, and by the way, the law remains to be seen and the regional composition, and that is one of the most important things in me. Another fact about that remainder after 65 years, who knows what the Retirement Act carries, will it vote in five days to do 67 everyone, then... but also if we wait one and the other law for four years we'll wait for what doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55799	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55800	Just for a little while. Comrade Boluncic, when I was talking about the data as much as it voted for and against me, I knew, but I didn't want to name how you voted from the beginning, but yet most of the board voted in that first run that the amendment that was accepted here and which we are changing now. So we are changing the will of our representatives of Croatian citizens at this moment of change and it is irrefutable. As far as 65 years are concerned, it's unquestionable and I don't think I've brought to the question that people are concerned with over 65, normally those who are financed from the state budget or from the ministry. But look, by what the Academic University Community says at this point, that such criteria are not accepted or that no one meets those criteria, I mean a big vacuum in some colleges. A large vacuum in both colleges and the scientific community. That's what everyone's talking about, especially in Zagreb's biggest...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55801	Lydia Bagaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55802	Thank you. Dear colleague Roksandić, I feel called a member of the board that I should be ashamed of how we're going to vote on Friday, so I can tell you that as a board member, I am not ashamed at all, that as you probably said by mistake, I have really made a circle around myself for 360 degrees and I have returned to the same place, but in that time I have looked around, I have learned the practice of other countries in the world, and I will not be ashamed at all because I do not think we should be doing precedents in such an important place for the academic community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55803	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55804	Look, fellas, I didn't call anyone, I just said how I felt, but you obviously found yourself called because we all raised our hands there together. I have protected here and will protect the dignity of every parliamentary representative, especially the president of the Croatian Parliament. You know how I reacted to that, I respect my colleague Zelenika because he couldn't explain why we changed our decision after 2.5 months. We all asked that, we discussed it, fellow Members, and then he wanted us picturesquely, but it turned out recklessly, really recklessly, as the President of the Parliament got confused, didn't understand the colleague of Jovanovic, the minister, so we all raised our hands like little children for some amendment. Well, we were very aware because we, as a committee of colleagues, accepted him. Consciously, wanting to give importance for the first time to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture or any parliamentary committee. So anyway, we colleagues and colleagues to this Rules of Procedure, which most of them have accepted, we've really reduced the committees to the lowest level. Now the law doesn't even have to be discussed on the board to attend the plenary session. What's that for? Then what are we going to do there every week, meet up, talk a little bit, draw some conclusions that are here somewhere, read it here if we read it or not at the plenary session. Well, we're doing it ourselves. You're on your own. That's why I reacted like that. With good intentions and respect for what the Deputy Minister really wanted to explain to us, but I'm sorry, as a member of the board, was struck. So for the first time I deceived all those who, and even not now, you have to remember, it wasn't even an amendment to the opposition MPs, but to the ruling MPs, I'm not going to name. That's why I found myself in a situation like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55805	Comrade Iron Flego, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55806	The current law was written by one current president of the state, 2 current rectors, 1 current parliamentary representative. And we wrote it with the intention of four years at the most. He's been active for 11 years. So I look forward to any intention to amend the existing law or write a new one, only it would be optimal for it to be too much and that new one to be better than the old one. We started amending the law in the fourth month of last year, and we're working hard so far. We had three key points in the amendments to the law. One was the conditions of progress, the other was the choice of national authorities, and the third was the most controversial actually 65-year-olds. As far as the conditions of progress are concerned, I'm going to go public here for the first time outside the board, I think a fundamental wrong decision has been made that I've been silent, I haven't done any noise, I haven't explained it, I haven't gone public with it, I haven't encouraged that part of the academic community that asked me to come to meetings and talk about it. But that's how it is, most of it wanted to, so it turned out. The second point was the principle that the Parliament was in charge of the selection procedure or the selection of its bodies. The National Council, the Ethics Commission are Parliament's bodies and we have agreed on both the board and the final line on the tide to do so, so the procedure to be led by the Parliamentary Committee on Education, Science and Education. I'm sorry, education, science and culture. Now, after proper time, we return to the old system, so the Parliament practically just votes out what the government is going to propose, and what the government is going to propose to the ministry. I'm a lot against it from the level of principle, from the level of direct experience, i.e. so far, human resources policy. I am against it also because it is not true that in most European countries the government appoints such bodies. You have listed most of the European countries of 7 countries, and this one has 27 if I am not mistaken, but some countries do not have national authorities, some countries have agencies, in some countries governments do so, in some countries you have parliaments and you have a state that has no Higher Education Act. We have decided on this model for a very specific reason because the Parliament is the fastest political body, the highest and highest political body to decide on. And so I have submitted one part of the amendment that is now giving up the compromise proposal. The compromise proposal consists of proposing in one segment the government to the parliamentary committee, and the parliamentary committee proposes the final list to the government. I now propose that the entire procedure be conducted by the parliamentary board and that the Government has nothing to do with the procedure for running and electing members of the National Council and the Committee on Ethics appointed by the Parliament. That's one part of my amendment. My second amendment is much more difficult and serious. He refers to the article 11 and, unlike colleagues, Boluncic, who found the appropriate compromise with his amendment, my amendment goes one step further. 4 are groups of reasons why I think Article 11 should be rejected. The constitution guarantees the autonomy of the university. The law sets out academic freedoms and rights and says choice as well as the basic criterion of selecting university teachers in the domain of academic or scientific community. The moment we prescribed the conditions of excellence of that moment, we dictated the autonomy of the university. That's the first reason. The second reason is we agreed at this third point on three occasions that excellent 65-year-olds stay in the system for two-by-two years. By formulating Article 11, so teachers at 65 can be excellent and therefore stay in the system only if the only age of the evaluation excellent for the last five years is the total elimination of 65 years. I don't know any teachers who have grades great. Secondly, I know a whole series of high schools that don't conduct regular student studies, so it's possible they couldn't bring student polls for the last five years. And thirdly, the largest number of 65-year-olds is in something called permanent calling. No student surveys are conducted in the permanent calling. And then you have a fourth. One of the most experienced scientists in the 65-year-olds is working on doctoral studies where these surveys are also not conducted. So that's why I didn't think that article 11 could survive. The third reason is that Article 11 was not at a public debate in the autumn, but you came up with it at the end of the 9th month past the public debate and you do not have any public feedback about what the public thinks about Article 11. Differently speaking, you smuggled him past the public and smuggled him past our colleagues in the Parliament and the Assembly Committee. And finally fourthly, I think that the problem is much more elegant and much faster because in the transitional provisions of 15.07. we voted that the remaining half of the National Council for Science and the rest of the National Council for Higher Education form a temporary National Council that will make technical decisions. And therefore, if it had been willful, and the minister has the right to do so, he could ask the National Council to bring some kind of opinion or opinion on a matter. So the minister had the opportunity to ask the National Council at the beginning of the 9th month, so from the concluded National Council, the issue of excellence. That the remaining pieces bring a criterion of excellence that the academic community would then respect. These excellence criteria adopted by the National Council are, on the one hand, prescribed by law, and are not constitutional, since members of the National Council and members of the academic community have been chosen in a special way. And so, I think you have your concept, I have mine. I'm not the only one among this part of the MPs. Please consider my amendments. I think they would contribute to the quality of the law, and I think they would contribute to the depreciation of one part, that part of the academic community that I communicate with, which is dissatisfied with these solutions. It is not just about the Zagreb University and some private interests of the Rector of the University of Zagreb because, without these two elements, I will not vote, nor wish, because it seems to me that those solutions that you have now proposed hair with those we have discussed, which we have agreed. And in the end, forgive me for my professional deformity, I cannot resist one moral lesson. Society is built on trust and trust is social glue. And only if we stick to agreements that we have made together easier or harder to trust each other. And the deal can only be changed, or only the ones who have achieved it can change it. That wasn't the case here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55807	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55808	Thank you very much. My colleague, Flego, I support every word you've said. When we're talking about and when you're talking about these 65 years as some age limit in terms of saying let's not say the criteria of excellence for choosing or stopping activities then I'd remind you of that event in the history of a nation nearby that was called "the cutting of princes." So that's exactly how it happens with the current bill. A five-year rating in the last five years, so 5 times 5, right, five-year grade for the criterion of excellence is also really as my colleague Boluncic said excessively and too high, too high a scale. Especially in the knowledge that there are not many universities in exactly the student grades. And one more thing, so the greatest scientists can start from history, have provided the highest reach just over 65 years of age. As a contribution to your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55809	Replication response, Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55810	We agreed on this, therefore, that there are three aspects in the scientific and research activities or in the academic community. One is research, the other is hermeneutic or exhibitional, and the third is investigative, therefore the study of the evaluations of dishes. And that it's university, so no matter what there are extremely talented and inventive people in the '30s for exporting and for questioning, they need a terrible experience. And that 60-year-olds, 70-year-olds, whatever you want if they're excellent, are simply irreplaceable. And hence the concern that they stay and hence I hope that on Friday, if not for this amendment of mine adopted then at least the adopted amendment by colleagues Boluncic so that those who are excellent at 65 can survive in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55811	Minister Željko Jovanovic's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55812	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, distinguished MPs and MPs, thank you for your discussions. Here's something I'd like to say before I look back at some discussions. I really hope that this exhaustive process that takes almost two years to pass this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the last such controversial dialogue is full of and emotion and passion where I know that we all want the best. We all want to ensure excellence in our system of science and higher education. In some of our attempts to reach that goal, we were different, and this took a long time. There is a new strategy ahead of us, a strategy of education, education, science and technology as a unique document in the history of Croatia that fully covers all segments of education from preschool education to doctoral studies while respecting science and technology that I hope we will find a consensus and future debates that will contribute to our higher education and science being more quality than they are now. Some shifts have already been seen, and we've stopped the fall in detachment for science and research. We expect to be bigger this year based on the latest data. We have received a large project of NEWPRO worth 7 million euros that is currently going into realisation, a major competition by the Croatian Foundation for Sciences has been launched, which has appeared somewhere around 688 potential projects are now going into the evaluation of these projects. Another technology project, 24m euros. Thanks to all this, Croatia has become the headquarters of a regional initiative of the Western Balkans for research and development. So it is clear that we are making the successes of this plan, and I believe that by working together in the period ahead of us, we will make these steps even greater. Tonight, we talked most about the election of members of the National Council. He understands some people think he should do it completely here in the Parliament. It is probably not wrong either, as is not the wrong proposal behind which the Croatian Government stands, which is that the proposal is made by the Croatian Government on the basis of a public call in which both regional and scientific branches and everything will be respected, and ultimately the decision will be made by the Parliament. Dear Representative Flego spoke of various practices, but believe me, I would like to be close to Sweden, Great Britain, France, Slovenia in which the National Council appoints the Government without consulting parliament at all. Therefore, it is evidence that this proposal is not wrong or harmful. The second most debated today concerns this transitional and final provision where we have clearly written that they will only be valid until the National Council sets out the originality criteria based on which all those older than 65 years will be able to remain on the burden of the state budget at their higher universities. This proposal you have in front of you is based on the proposal of one part of a 65-year-old who has so far earned the right to remain still. Indeed, most of it is not to take this insufferable, and it has already extended itself to 70 years. 13 professors out of 5500 in the system didn't do it. 13 (13) and they have proposed to us such an amendment, that is to say, they have suggested that in the transitional and final provisions we find an opportunity to keep those 13 as well. So without this article, no one over 65 can remain because there are no criteria. With such a proposal, we open the door that even those 13 who have failed to manage, yet do not take it uglyly because the others have managed, if the system needs them, to stay in the system. Part of your amendments we will consider and see if it is possible to make this article 11 even better in order not to be too much of an obstacle to keep some of those 13. The school year began, therefore by the next school year, of course we will have a new national council, that it will have criteria and that these criteria will allow those who are excellent to remain in the system. Well, in conclusion, I thank you for all your discussions. And I say from the heart, I sincerely hope that this two-year conflict of thinking that once righted reason, and going into the sphere of passion and emotion, we will not have in the next laws that we will bring to the Croatian Parliament with one goal only, that our education system will be competitive with the European system and that all our students and students together with scientists will be an equal part of the European educational and scientific research space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55813	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And now let's make a deal tomorrow. We'll start with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act and we'll discuss the House Savings Act and then we'll go back to these reports that we skipped. At 9.30 tomorrow, I'll see you. Goodbye. A session interrupted at 19.59 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55814	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Health Activity and Higher Education, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 490. The debate on the text of the law is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Valter Boljunčić and representative of the Iron Flego. Please Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports... And there's the minister, I apologize. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Minister Zeljko Jovanovic is showing up on the amendments. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55815	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's get this straight. [[Intruder: Let's go in order.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55816	Amendment No. 1. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55817	Amendment No. 1. The Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55818	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. We are going to the amendment of Honored Representative Walter Bolunčić to the amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55819	The amendment of Mr. Honorable Parliamentary Representative Valter Bolunčić to Article 11 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55820	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. We are going to the amendments to the Honored Representative of the Iron Flag Amendment No. 1st..
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55821	Amendment to Mr. Flege No. Article 1(2) is not accepted. The explanation is as follows. According to the current Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, members of the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education, its presidents were appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and are also appointed as members of the National Council for Education and Education. Comparative analysis with the way members of comparable national councils are proposed in the Member States of the European Union and other developed countries of the world shows that the operational procedure relating to the proposal of members of such bodies is not implemented anywhere by the national parliament, so it is proposed to keep the law still in force and in the draft way of proposing members of the National Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55822	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Iron Flego as an amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55823	It is a principle that I have represented and that has received proper support is that those bodies which the Parliament appoints to carry out the procedure for these bodies. This principle was adopted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. A minister who was also attended. That principle was verified by our vote of 15.7. when we, when the minister adopted all our amendments. And it seems to me that it would be optimal for the Parliament to carry out the whole procedure for those bodies it appoints and that amendment goes in that sense. So I'd like to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55824	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. The first respected representative of the Iron Flag that the government does not accept. Who's in? ... We'll count, of course. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, no, let's move on, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, is it just numbered? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment passed 62 votes for, 48 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment No. 2. of the same representative, the honourable representative, of Article 11 of the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55825	The amendment to Article 9 shall be rejected from the same reasoning Article 11 is rejected because the changes we have proposed until the appointment of the National Council are not possible to enable the selection of scientists and teachers over 65 years of age and we propose these transitional solutions which will allow those who meet the conditions to be elected in the period until the formation of a new National Council for Science and Technological Development. [[Agreement: 11, 11, Article 11.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55826	On behalf of the promoter of the amendment, the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55827	Mr. President, I'm afraid it's a mistake. Therefore, Amendment No. 2. refers to Article 2, Article 11(3) of the existing law and does not apply to Article 11 of the proposed amendments and additions Minister, it's something else. [[Intruder: Exactly.]] It is to be specified that all procedures relating to the selection of members of the National Council are carried out by the Parliament. So that's in Amendment 1, 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55828	We reject it all for reasons I've already said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55829	So it seems to me that it would be consistent to accept all of this by verifying that the Parliament is conducting a full procedure and therefore running and proposing and then finally appointing members of the National Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55830	Please state the amendment No. 2. in Article 11(3), which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not passed. 43 deputies voted in favour, against 69 MPs and 10 abstentions. We shall go to Amendment 3 to Article 12(1). Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55831	He's refusing, too. The same explanation as Amendment 2 with the fact that I must warn you that by voting like this, you are actually doing a normative colitision again. I'm obliged to say that. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55832	Please. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55833	I'm just warning. We're going to have a normative colitision in the election again, and it won't be possible to do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55834	Okay, thank you very much. Please, on behalf of the Proposer... Please! Please! Can we work? Please make it clear that the amendment of Honored Representative Flag is being made manifest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55835	This amendment is the third most innocent because it proposes that the right to recall members of the National Council with the Government also has a parliamentary committee and that it is not in any conflict with the powers of the Government or with the powers of the Parliament, so it only assumes that the parliamentary board also receives that authority, nothing else, and that the parliamentary committee has the authority to recall those bodies or members of those bodies that it appoints. So I'd like to ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55836	Thank you very much. Please state Amendment 3 to Article 12(1) of the Honored Representative of the Flag, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Confirm the amendment has not passed. 40 MPs voted in favour, 67 against and 15 abstentions. We're going to Amendment 4 to Article 9. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55837	Amendment No 4 to Article 9 shall be rejected from the same reasoning as Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55838	Honorable representative of the Iron Flego, the applicant of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55839	My colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately I have to agree with the minister that these amendments only make sense if they are adopted in the package. If any of these amendments fall, the law becomes inconsistencies and inconclusive. So I'm withdrawing Amendment 4, and unfortunately, Amendment One, I can't withdraw any more because he's been voted, so I don't know what we're going to do. I'm afraid that in due course we'll have to have changes and additions to the law again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55840	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment number five of the respected ministers of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55841	This is an amendment to Article 11. Overruled. I explained, it is an amendment relating to the provision of conditions for scientists and teachers over 65 years of age to the election of a new National Council that will establish the criteria of excellence for these amendments we have proposed to ensure that they are allowed to continue their work in colleges. This proposal therefore rejects the amendment proposed by MP Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55842	The applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55843	What the Parliament should never do is make decisions that are unconstitutional, especially to build into the law provisions that are anti-constitutional. The constitution... to the academic community, commits to something called university autonomy. The autonomy of universities includes among other criteria for selecting teachers. Article 11 sets out the criteria of excellence, and they are defined by which those constitutional solutions that give the Constitution autonomous university are derivated. The law, the special law cannot be... and must not be counter-constitutional. I therefore proposed that Article 11 be abolished. The second reason why I propose the abolition of Article 11 is that the possible vote of this article brings the law itself into non-consistency because some articles are in conflict with this article that we would introduce, so Article 11. The third group of reasons is that it is quite possible that these conditions that are now prescribed by the law do not meet one part of the teachers. Since the conditions of excellence will be prescribed by the National Council for Science, decisions of the National Council on Excellence may be made in a conflict with these specifications of the law on excellence and the full inequality of people who need to be excellent in these titles. The fourth reason is that this article was not at a public debate last autumn but was subsequently introduced into the draft law and I would therefore ask for a vote and, of course, with a proposal not to accept Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-06-0.u55844	Please state the amendment number 5 which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not passed, 45 votes in favour, 70 votes against and five abstentions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that the law has been passed by a majority of 80 votes in favour, 39 against and 3 abstentions, as proposed by the proposer along with the amendments adopted. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're starting a plenary session. We're moving on to the agenda. It is next: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 450; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the Law apply to the adoption of the Law. These are Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to add an explanation of the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister. Minister of Finance esteemed Slavko Linic. Here you go.
