ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56372	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we consider it very important and important to talk about what happened yesterday in Vukovar. Because yesterday in Vukovar, it wasn't Vukovar and non-Wukovar Croatia, it was democratic and it wasn't. Yesterday in Vukovar, there was a Croatian who respected the victims, who gave a pitet to everything the defenders in Vukovar gave for Croatia. And it was Croatia that shares citizens on these and such grounds, shares Croatia and all those who want to show that Croatia must push aside together. Yesterday in Vukovar was Croatia which tolerates differences and respects victims and appreciates everything they have done for Croatia and was Croatia with which nothing is sacred, which has proved to govern Croatia over the past years and that it grabs for itself on these victims. Unfortunately, again after so many years, we have witnessed divisions that are completely unnecessary for Croatia's future. But the fact is also that there are no associations, headquarters but political options, political options that go to the elections and these elections get or lose them. It should be noted once again that there were elections in Vukovar where certain candidates were elected and won. And the others who spoke in Vukovar yesterday about the fact that someone is not welcome, that someone who has been legitimately elected and legally elected by Croatian citizens cannot participate in a memory column because someone has decided so, they have also competed in these elections and lost in that city that everyone is talking about. It was already seen in Croatia 11 years ago or 12 years ago we watched such division of Croatia on the Split Riviera where it was then the former leader of a political party, the president of the then talks and we know how he ended today. Is this the path that this same party is going to and leading Croatia into division on that basis? Tomorrow, in two years, there will be elections, each of us comes out to the citizens who evaluate whether we did well or did not do well, whether they trust us and will give us trust, and in these elections we win a political game. You don't get a political game on the street. And especially in the way that you respected HDZ colleagues do it by instrumentalising on the most sacred thing, which is Vukovar and a column of memories of people who were manipulated in your organization yesterday in Vukovar. And that's embarrassing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56373	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, the respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56374	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. For a speech like this held by fellow Dragovan, it simply does not push Croatia into division. Is it, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, that on behalf of the HDZ we kept our mouths shut and listened to what the SDP Club has to say, let me say too. Does this labeling of all who think differently in Croatia, does not pushing non-essential topics ahead of life topics, unfortunately, push Croatia into division? Croatia has never been this divided. If one minister says, without a single party complex, that she betrayed Vukov in '91. Then we might as well tell me if it was his party in '91. when she said private work was being conducted in Croatia. Is it 100,000 people or how many were estimated, we could say a few tens of thousands of people are something that can be manipulated? Is the message, that we understand each other, none of us are in favor of division and no one is pleased that what happened in Vukovar is happening. Unfortunately, it happened. But labeling a political party for something is just ridiculous. Well, after all, if it were so kinky, so wrong, so wouldn't many prominent defenders, people who in '91. Maybe they weren't in any political party, they had one party in their heart, and that's Croatia and freedom of Croatia, they went to the defense of Croatia, they were in that column yesterday. Are these people who are the organizers of something against Croatia? Tell me, colleagues and colleagues, and why did Cyrillic and bilingual inscriptions not bother in many cities in the Republic of Croatia where the co-existence of Croats and Serbs began? Did Vukovar, Vukovars, citizens of the Republic of Croatia experience an apology for a crime by Serbs that took place in Vukovar? No, they're not. Has anyone been convicted of crimes in Vukovar? It's not. Look, it's not just killed people who belong to one... Mr. Stazic, if you have anything, come to the pay phone and say... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But this is exactly what your attackers and labels are all about. If it hadn't been for Dr. Tudjman's vision you probably wouldn't be sitting in this House today because Dr. Tudjman offered first of all the reconciliation of the evicted Croatian homeland. Dr. Tudjman also advocated the peaceful reintegration of eastern Croatia because he is aware of the fact that there would be many victims on both sides. Yeah, Dr. Tudjman went up, but why? If you're labeling today then give it a little deeper and see why he did it. So because of Croatia's future, it simply makes it easier to get some things. However, it is very interesting that in Croatia today he can say whatever he wants and whoever at the given moment feels that he does not like something he is threatened because he is a minority. But colleagues and colleagues, are you asking whether the Croats in Vukovar or elsewhere are at risk? Does anyone impose anything on them? Tell me how the citizens of Zagreb felt the other day when someone took it as a right to put a plate on Cyrillic in Vukovar Avenue. Isn't that provoking? Two days before the memory column. Of course, you can tell your SDP colleagues that's funny because in Vukovar Avenue, there's never been a Cyrillic, and you can tell whatever you want, but all those who died, who died, who lost someone, it was frustrating when someone made it, no matter what performance it was. And colleagues and colleagues in this way accuse, label, we won't take a step forward. In Vukovar yesterday what happened, you tried something else if you're accusing us of this. What were Facebooks, too, but we didn't say that Croatia was like this or like that. Start dealing with economic problems, and don't share Croatia ideologically because you simply don't have a historical right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56375	Thank you, too. It is next to the HNS club and the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56376	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. She's weaker this morning than she was yesterday morning. Something has happened that is absolutely against the fundamental rights of the citizens of this country. In fact, one group of people declared some other group of people undesirables in the public space of the Republic of Croatia, and then banned those same persons from moving through the public space of the Republic of Croatia beyond the law and beyond the bodies that can do so. And if that's the case, if that can happen, then it can happen tomorrow. Tomorrow someone can declare someone an unwanted person, an unwanted group and ban him from moving through the public space of this country. Incidentally, the group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia was the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was democratically elected, with full democratic legitimacy which no one disputed, and of course this fact of endangering the lawfulness of the conduct in this country makes it more difficult. As far as content is concerned, peaceful reintegration was a common policy. Respect for the laws we have passed together was a common policy. And now with these laws and constitutional provisions of this country, that I am not talking about the symbolism of the message, playing small small political day games, and some people are declaring undesirable, so that two columns are formed, all past the basic interests of this country, which is that large and delicate issues are being discussed, and that politics if citizens are already allowed to go their own way and do not have that kind of responsibility. I am sure that the citizens there were not to support anyone other than Vukovar alone, they did not gather to defend Croatian Vukovar or Vukovar Croatia. I don't know what kind of Vukovar would be except for Croatian and what kind of Croatia would be except for Vukovar Croatia. So there is no other Croatia or other Vukovar. And if we were able to achieve something in this country about Vukovar with all the controversy that had not touched high policy, it was consent and unity. Whether this policy has always been good is of course another question. If all our concerns about Vukovar gave this city a chance and a chance to live, to get out of the past, of course to remember it in what needs to be remembered, that's a different question, of course. But around peaceful reintegration, around the defence of Vukovar, about the postwar development of that city, about the laws on which it rests, there was no dispute, but the dispute happened yesterday. I will not, of course, depolize with those who organised it, but I will note that their supporters and patrons are working absolutely against the unity of this country and what happened yesterday in Vukovar is not in the interest of Vukovar or Croatia. We've already had such a situation that for daily political reasons, there's something to support, and then when it comes to power, it breaks down, so that these organizers and their patrons will eventually play them as they've already played them. And if they are part of the same story, then Croatian citizens will be played here as well as on the Split coast. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56377	Thank you very much. It is up to the IDS club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56378	No. 18th of November, no one but the werewolves' victims mattered to us, not to us esteemed colleagues and colleagues, not to the headquarters, not to the politics, not to anyone. November 18th is not the day it should be divided. It is a day when the whole of Croatia bows down to the size of Vukovar, a day when we are more than usual in mind with everyone who has given their lives defending their home, their city, their families, children, spouses, parents, on still missing. Therefore, on behalf of the IDS Club, I resent all those who have prevented the passage of the Croatian institutions because they have shown a lack of respect for all the Vukovar victims. I resent it because such a procedure drew attention from innocent werewolf victims to themselves. This does not challenge democratic dialogue, I do not dispute the expression of different opinions. But that day, all of us, all of us, all of Croatia's citizens, and I'll allow myself to speak and we have to express our piety to the werewolf victims exclusively. The Vukovars have shown us their way fighting for what is sacred, their country, freedom and peace. So for all of us today and tomorrow, there is a great responsibility, a responsibility to choose the only right path, and that is the path that leads forward, a path that opens up dialogue, a path that builds bridges of cooperation. We show patriotism to our only homeland if we cultivate the values of the greatest civilizations, if we maintain the view that society should remain socially sensitive to the problems of the entire community, if we think how best we can use our potential in all areas of our economy. And respected colleagues and colleagues, let's not forget that the Vukovars fought for democracy as well. The "Memory Column" as many people as it is well organized without having room for the president of the state, for the President of the Croatian Parliament, for the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is neither a column of all Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56379	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56380	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. I was in Vukovar yesterday. I came in time, I entered the hospital, I said goodbye to the state authorities, I went outside, I talked to people who were outside the building, and in that column I went with everyone together thinking there should be one column, one Vukovar and one Croatia. Personally, it was very difficult for me to walk towards the cemetery, and I'm a child without both parents at 10 when Dad died and 16 when he was a mom. When I saw young people who were 16, 17 years old who kept the banners on which they wrote messages to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's for me, it hit me in the soul and in the heart. It is each other's Croatia. And those children were supposed to live in Croatia free of any policy on that day and those children know best what Christmas is, what Easter is, what is birthday and what is the weight when you open a room and remember that until yesterday your father or mother was there or you don't remember them at all. That pain can only be understood by one who has lost something. Unfortunately, on the 18th of November, some people lost their souls to Croatia. I was sorry to see you President of the Parliament when you gave your statement because it was hard to say. Because you are the president of this, you should be a high and respected House in the Croatian people. It all seemed sad and pathetic. And what we resent to the Prime Minister as the man who was supposed to go to Vukovar three months ago together and with you, President of the Parliament, along with the President of the Republic and admit one of the simplest things there is a problem in Vukovar. Those wounds are still open. They are still bleeding, but we are against any party in Croatia leading any policy on that day and opening that wound on that day. Because there are buried people we don't know about yet who their families are, their children. Yesterday I put a rose on a 15-year-old's grave with a Croatian defender, 15 years old. It's the hardest you can experience and see. You should have gone there, Prime Minister, your party president, to sit with these people if it takes 15 days to say that there is also a representative of Serbian, Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality put at the same table and try to agree on how deep these wounds are and how this can be solved. Because we have 350,000 unemployed in Croatia, we heard that on the news yesterday. The first was Vukovar, grief in Vukovar, separation in two columns, who can pass, who can't, who turned his back on the Croatian state, who hasn't turned his back. Each of you there represented the Croatian state, but what you should have done and that is most important for us, you should have sat down with all the defence associations, with all the representatives of any option in Vukovar and with representatives of the Serb national minority who respected also the Croatian state and were present yesterday in Vukovar and this problem was solved in a human way. We are going to deal with the problems of the unemployed, with the problems of leaving our young people from Croatia, with problems that children who go to school and finish college can find work, with problems that those who don't have a father and mother must know what it means to lose and not wear passwords and write something they don't understand for sure. And that's the hardest, which someone has used children and those young people to work against Croatia because they don't know what it says for sure. They just know what pain is that they've lost to their parents. And we're against it, we don't support anything that happened yesterday in Vukovar. We didn't want anyone to turn their backs on anyone, to protect anyone from passing through. One Croatian state, created by Franjo Tudjman, created by your late Ivica Racan, was created by all those who wanted Croatia with honor and honesty. Yesterday in Vukovar there was only one time for one Croatia, one column and one defender and one Croat because the others were gone. If all this is so in vain, then what the victims of their soul and their wounds left in Vukovar. This is the kind of Croatia that is in vain. And I think it's also dr. Tudjman lives to make everything different. We must live for Croatia, and on that day we should remember the dead and the dead and their souls, not any policy. It's a shame!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56381	Thank you very much. It is the turn of the Croatian party of pensioners, the respected representative of Hrelja. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56382	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, it's hard to speak after an emotional appearance by a colleague, but I'll do my best. For us in HSU to make it impossible to pay any tribute to the Vukovar victims is an act of devising the Day of Remembrance and harsh violation of the value of freedom and equality in the rights for which numerous Croatian defenders fought and died. The exclusive right to interpret the Vukovar but also the Croatian collective war past cannot and must not have any group of citizens regardless of its number and merits so far in creating an independent and independent Republic. The Vukovar sacrifice is time-consuming, seeking the respect of all Croatian citizens to awe. The atmosphere yesterday does not contribute to promoting truth in Vukovar and is a humiliation of the victims the state summit came to bow down to. Victims whose lives were woven into the foundations of Croatian statehood deserved the honor of all the people who were in Vukovar yesterday, of all people of goodwill and not only of the chosen ones. Personally, I wasn't in Vukovar yesterday, but as a fan of the Vukovar victim, I was extremely sad because yesterday, in Vukovar, there was an attempt to share citizens with similar and inappropriate, to werewolves and non-vukovars, to be wrong and real. According to the self-proclaimed Croatian Vukovar Defence Staff, which was and will remain a Croatian town and should at least defend it against legally and legitimately elected top state officials who have come to bow down to the victim of Vukovar and nothing more. The policyisation of victims is a sad form of showing dissatisfaction with the situation in the country that continues to be shaken by the crisis, which we are increasingly talking about by wasting energy on antagonisms where they should not and on topics that should be sacred to all those who have Croatia in their heart. What did we prove yesterday, or what we showed yesterday? That as a society, we are extremely talented to defile each one of our saints and degrade them. Something, gentlemen dear, is not right in our collective consciousness. I'm glad the state top was wise, abstentioned and complex yesterday. Yesterday, only civil Croatia lost, which is not irreparable and irreparable. Respect for the law, freedom and equality of all citizens have no alternative. The society was built to respect the victims and to focus on the prosperity of our children is the only guarantee of our people's survival. Incarceration, division and antagonism, history has taught us not to lead to the prosperity of this country. Croatia's open and tolerated country of satisfied citizens is our vision, it's Vukovar, it's worth the victim of Vukovar. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, something quite personal. Don't bother and don't spoil my memory of the sanctuary of Vukovar, I deeply respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56383	Thank you, Your Honor. It is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and the Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56384	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday was the first time I was in a memory column in Vukovar. I first came to Vukovar in '96. Before the beginning of peaceful reintegration, before the beginning of peace in the Republic of Croatia and the return of those who had to leave it. I couldn't do something I wanted to do here so let the President of the Parliament, Mr. Leco, not mind what it looks like to me to take over his role. I want to take a minute out of my five minutes here for all the victims in Vukovar and invite you to stand up and show that we can be bigger than we were yesterday and than we did in the last few days and give the victims to those we were supposed to do so to yesterday. - A minute of silence. - May eternal glory be to all those who have suffered from inhumanity and madness. - Praise them. If someone had led a column of people without a job or who would be out of work tomorrow, then we who were expelled from that column yesterday would probably have been in front of a serious, moral and political dilemma but it wasn't done yesterday. That column was never brought by anyone. Croatian unemployed and those who will be jobless do not fit into that kind of column but suffer, are tortured and are expected of us in the Parliament of the Government and of the state to do something for them. But what is certainly not expected by colleagues and colleagues is to destroy what we have created, and we have created severe torment. I would like to say this one more time specifically to my colleagues from HDZ with whom we have since '96, respected colleague Shuker and President Tudjman, with all the differences between us, decided to overcome them. With all the horrors that have happened to each other, they decided to overcome them, with all the bad looks and preparation to call me a stranger, a traitor, and someone from HDZ who wanted the Serbian government as it was here in 2003, and 2004 who spoke because three MPs supported it or those who when they came and took over this party said they were ashamed of being with the Serbs. Well, that's the result of that attitude, this division yesterday. That's what Vukovar would want, those who are involved and those who are excluded, those who can, those who can't together and those who can together. For this reason, those who call for this kind of Croatia are calling for further destruction of Croatia as if Croatia had not already been destroyed enough, as if Croatia had not lost its future. Not a respected colleague, Rados, this has been a petty and daily bribery in Vukovar and everything that has been going on over the past weeks and months. This is about a public process that destroys the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia in which its legality and its democracy are destroyed for what? Because of the government. And what authorities, for which account For whose account? [[Intruder: Bring an end to a respected colleague.]] That's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56385	I have two sentences to say. Thank you very much, dear fellow Pupovci. Yesterday I was in Vukovar and stood still in front of the size of the victim of Vukovar and true and without calculations. I don't believe in the breakup of Croatian society. It was inappropriate and irresponsible to stop legally elected representatives of the Croatian people when the victim was given up in Vukovar. The philosophers say bad people are afraid of the law, and honest people are afraid of their consciences. I think one warning is enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56416	My colleagues and colleagues, we are continuing an individual debate, and Comrade Tyrelly, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56417	Madam Vice President, I request a 10-minute recess on behalf of the Croatian Labourists and I would like to ask if you can invite Mr. Minister of Health Mr. Ostojić to come to the Parliament and tell us why no salaries have been paid in health for the past month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56418	I'm setting a break until 3:11. It's 3:01 p.m. Comrade Tyrelli, can we get started? [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.07 HOURS]] Nancy Tyrelli on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56420	Well, here's a well-respected colleague and colleagues, probably like you and we at the Croatian Labour Club, you're getting constant calls in these few days about non-payments in health care and we feel that there's a need to hear some sort of explanation about what's going on. At the 9th month he began a health strike, at the 10th month the wages for the month were late, and from the club we sent an inquiry to the minister about what happened and the answer was that it was due to the information system, a new way of calculating wages and that there was a delay in some health institutions. However, we felt that this information system was being stalked within two months, and now we are witnessing regrettably that the salaries were not paid again, despite the fact that the salaries in some hospitals were paid on the 10th of the month, and the legal obligation is by the 15th and here we are today 19th in the month. The salaries were not paid in KBC Split, KBC Osijek, KBC of the Mercy Sisters in Vinogradska, and KBC of Zagreb paid its salaries at 14 o'clock today with the fact that the information from KBC of Rijeka failed to be obtained. Two questions are raised, whether health pay is paid in these two months because there is no money in the health budget or because someone in this way avenges all those healthcare professionals who have used their constitutional right to strike to show their dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction in the work of the health system. If the reason is the first one, which is that there is no money in the health system then it was also expected because when we easily accepted the reduction of the 2% contribution point index in the health system in the anyway collapsed system, we could expect that the problems would be growing from day to day. And if the reason that payment is already the second month is not in time for health care professionals to be on strike, then it is certainly a message that is even less good because in this way we are essentially letting know how much doctors mean to us and how much we hold them. We have information today that every day one doctor asks for documentation so that he can continue his work somewhere outside the Republic of Croatia, and that's what's worrying, that's what we don't care about, and while here for two months we let some things happen to us, things that happen to us, doctors are bitter, citizens are bitter, and in hospitals things happen to us that none of us would want to happen to him personally. And I think that the same thing is our responsibility as the parliamentary representatives to talk about it every day and to ask the same question every day as long as these things happen and as long as the salaries are not paid to the health care workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u56421	Thank you, dear colleague Tyrelli. Here's the information I received from the minister is exactly what you said, in the healthcare system wages aren't only paid in KBCs until today. Today, like you said in KBC Rebro, and in the next two days all KBCs will be paid. The only reason... All the hospitals got paid, it's exactly what the entire system pays from the health system translates into a central salary account. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. ... As long as it takes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57359	Dear colleagues of MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue our work at the 10th plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you. We start with the usual agenda, or already established agenda: - Proposal for a social care law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 510 I see my hand in the air, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57360	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's after we've been waiting for the Deputy Prime Minister to come, I'd like to ask that we get a clear agenda. This is final, I don't know what term to use for us to start the session without getting a consolidated agenda because we have a large agenda ahead of us. The second thing, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, is that we voted some points on Friday, but the committee meetings remain scheduled. It best says how this High House works and how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57361	Thank you very much. You will receive every minute, every second of the cleaned agenda of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57362	On behalf of the SDP Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes, and the reason for the break is because we have to show ourselves about something we saw yesterday in Vukovar, which is one policy of intolerance and division that certainly does not lead Croatia forward but into the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57363	Thank you very much. HDZ Club, let's write it down. SDP, HDZ, HNS, who else? IDS, SDSS, HDSSB, HSU good. Anyone else? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 clubs. They're not the only laborers. How? SDP, HDZ, HNS, IDS, SDSS, HDSSB, HSU. I'm setting a break at 9.50. Thank you very much. And now we move on to work at a plenary session and represent each of our political positions, because it is the Parliament, which is why it is a multi-party in the Republic of Croatia and that is why we have to keep it democratically. Proposal for a social care law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 510. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. These are the provisions of Law 183 to 188. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth Milanka Opačić. Here's your esteemed vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57365	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the Law on Social Welfare, which in principle opens and creates the basis for a number of social reforms that we need and need at this time in Croatia. First of all, the social care system was fairly divided through different ministries and it is high time that certain benefits that can be treated as social benefits are concentrated because in this way we can only better target those who are in need with the existing funds, and that was precisely our goal, so in this law with the merger of social benefits, we can aim much better at those groups that need it and that all analyses so far have shown that they are either already in the poverty zone or are somewhere in danger of poverty in that area and come. In particular, one of the reforms most often made in countries that are much better prepared than our entire mandate we have succeeded in the first two years of this reform and in 1.1 it will move on to life. There are a number of fees that could not be combined, fees related to incentives for life on the islands, fees which, bearing the characteristics of parental benefits, parental support, support for education. However, one part of the benefits are definitely social benefits and were found in different portfolios. And that's four fees that will now be combined into one common name, we called it a minimum fee because it is, so some kind of minimum means that the state guarantees anyone who doesn't have the means to live. It is therefore a matter of benefits paid from the social care system and the extended compensation paid under the Law on Employment Intermediation in Rights during the unemployed and two types of supplies provided by the Law on the Rights of Defence and the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War so as to combine these fees into one, facilitate the administration of benefits, which means that only one solution will now be issued instead of a few solutions. There was an asset censorship in the welfare system, but because the system was not informationally arranged there was no control of all this, there was no good implementation. Now the system is finally informed. Since 1.1, they should also start networking with the OIB system but also with other institutions such as the State Geodetic Authority to see who has what they have, at least what is recorded. On the other hand, several other institutions possessing a particular database to really see which one of the users has. Because so far our first rehearsals that we've had have shown that social benefits users have savings, that they have certain shares, that they have several cars, that in the last two years they've resold 8 cars, which means they're dealing with a certain kind of supply of funds, and that's not social. These aren't social cases. So it would be good to clean it up. At this point, we from the social care system have about taken down about 6.5 thousand people who have received this right but unfortunately because of an unsettled system, there has been insufficient control and these people have passed the law, so against certain rights. Which means they were taking our money really for those who needed it most. Let me show you how much, for example. We're now giving through these four combined items we're about to have somewhere with 860 million kuna in the state budget for this kind of fee. The local self-government stands out a billion and a half kuna for all social programs. 54 types of social different programmes at the level of local self-government is something that is extremely big money, so it is twice what we give out of the state budget. And the question is just the implementation of those social programs that have been insisting on it for years, but the countys have been having a hard time moving to really and locally assess every county that has its social needs, where the most vulnerable categories of the population are in order for local self-government to target its financial resources much better, because these are not small financial resources and we are still witnessing that one part of the people who are looking for lunch or dinner in garbage cans. That means we didn't aim the money we had. Therefore, the guaranteed minimum fee will be able to be made by a person who does not have enough means to live, who does not have, therefore, no savings stakes, no shares, no other types of profit, who does not possess a certain asset, so the property that can be placed in office. Since we do not have a system-based register at this point, let's say the assets and we don't even have an estimate of the assets that would be real, we've still left an assessment of the employees of the welfare center that those estimates that can be put into office and which can't. If you have two houses in a village, I don't know in Sisak-Moslavina County or somewhere in Slavonia it's certainly not property you can put into office, it's even as much a burden to you, but somewhere else you can. We therefore left it on the assessment of the centre’s employees who will then be able to see if the property that can be sold or rented or thus be put into operation in some way. Something will now make it easier for us to be a member of the European Union and for the first time we can get information on the users of foreign pensions. We couldn't do it so far, we had that part. So one part of our people worked in the countries of the European Union, they got a certain pension, but we couldn't see it in Croatia, now we'll be able to see it. And in so much as that part, we'll be able to get registered. When I was talking about how we could better target the funds the moment we put them together here, there's no saving, that's what I'd like to say first. There's no savings here, there's only better redistributions and more just assets. We are at this point because the government will regulate the amounts by its regulation so that we do not have to change the law every time, but so that we can allow that at the moment when GDP increases, maybe the government can intervene and change the regulation and increase those amounts. We are now in some calculations and expect to be able to increase the amount of funds for a single man. At this point, they only live on 600 kunas, they have no accumulation of funds, so they only have those 600 kunas because families that have children still have certain rights that can profit from children and their cumulation brings them some more money through social compensation. However, single people at this point live at 600 kuna, each of us knows what 600 kuna can buy and how much they can survive with 600 kuna. We will try to increase something in this part of it for single parents who are also in all studies that category is located somewhere near the poverty rate. There's another set of fees, that's educational fees. The three at the same time that went from two ministries, educational fees, so support will also come together in one fee with Minister Jovanovic, and thus will be able to better target from one place the funds that are currently focused on children's educational support. In doing so, we have to say that these fees that we have now grouped are only State budget fees, everything else remains the same, local self-government gives its rights and, of course, all other family-related rights remain, so the maternity benefits, the child's allowance, certain allowances based on disability, the accommodation of students in a student's home, the fees to students, so all these are the rights that, of course, remain with this. The total maximum amount guaranteed is 2900 kuna, so I think it was fair to finally limit it because it is the amount of gross minimum wage. This means that workers who work in the textile industry or in some retail chain get less when they receive a minimumer they get 2400 on their hands. So our limited fee is going to be 2900 because we think it's a fair system in which we have to send a message that even if the sociale can't live better than work. And it often happens that those who have this minimum wage with that minimum salary sometimes eat three and four family members because unfortunately they can't get into this censorship and can't get any more support from the welfare system. Something may be easier in the units of local self-government, but you have some rules of play, and then unfortunately those who work in those rules can't get in. The social care law opens or puts a certain legal basis for reforming social services. In fact, at this point social services are basically something to develop, many of them are so far set up as to say project well, but we don't have good control mechanisms and we don't have game rules. So one part of social services is simply how they're designed quite now and overlapping and they're somehow organized. So we have now created a basis for these social services to have certain rules of the game, which means that for the accommodation of our users in certain institutions or in homes it would be done by principle, primarily by certain licensing of institutions, certain categorizations, prices of services that we know exactly who can get in a certain institution, how much it costs, and that eventually every user knows who paid for it. This means that those who will have more financial capacity will have to pay for certain services themselves. Those who are socially endangered will pay for it themselves. To be a little plastic, it's about us having an example at this point. the homes of the pensioners in which the people who have left their great property to children are staying, and the children have left care for their parents to us or to all citizens through the state budget. We have people who have villas by sea, who have apartments in the center of Zagreb but are in retirement homes that we, or the local community, pay for, part of. Those who cannot, who did not check in in time, stay home and often remain completely alone, severely ill, and no one provides them with any support because they either have no children or those children do not care for them. This system of ours allows for the entry into homes that the state will finance, indeed, those who need this support from the state, those who can pay either with their own property or with their own pension, then it will pay at the price that will be determined for each home in accordance with its categorisation and in accordance with the service that the home will provide. At this point we have tried to resolve in the last year and a half many contracts that have been uneven, so you have one category, the same category of users located in certain institutions, however at different prices. Prices had a range of 2-2.5 thousand kuna per user somewhere. We have now tried to raise awareness to the same level and I must admit that we have had good cooperation with all home and institution owners, but this is something that needs to be regulated by the unique rules of the game that people really know what is waiting for them when they go to the opening of certain homes or providing certain services. But on the other hand, citizens should also know what they can get, where they can get, and for what price, and it's much easier for them on the other hand, and from next year we're going to go to this whole project where we're going to negotiate social services. I must admit that for years even the former government has written in all its contracts that all this is worth up to certain changes in the model of the contract. There is another good project that has lived well in local self-government units all these years. We call it the geronto housewives somewhere. So it's one service for third-aged people who works well in many units of local self-government, it's been revived, it's a great help to people who are older, who are not cared for. But when we did one review, one map of all of it, then we saw one great inequality. There are counties where you have 3, 3 and a half thousand users with very few inhabitants, and you have some counties where you have maybe 100 users, which means that this is a system that is completely uneven. It was contracted directly with local self-government units, which paid off financial resources. They decided for themselves who the users were and who helped you in the house. We think that the more order should be introduced, of course, the more the laws and audits of course warns us every time that every money we give on the ground must basically be controlled and it must be known exactly where it went. With this way of direct bargaining with the local self-government unit, we have difficulty in controlling, we suffer certain remarks, every little bit of our inspection goes out on the ground because someone complains that they didn't get help and is on the list. So it's very difficult to determine really the real state of this project, and that's why we've proposed here that the basis, so the censorship for the exercise of that right remains the same as so far. However, that right goes according to the Social Care Centre's resolution. At first, the centre will have a little more work to do, as it will have to bring some solutions. But the center of the sea, so just by solving the center, we'll be able to give the user a favor and they have to evaluate who they really are. So, older people who don't have anyone around. Which means that if your kids are around, they have to take care of that older person, so for their parents, which I think is perfectly normal. So that's our not gonna say constitutional, that's our human obligation to take care of our parents because they took care of us and made us adults and educated and educated people. So this program will allow us to simply aim precisely at those older people whom no one else can help to provide them with this type of service. That service will continue to work, the people who have done it so far. So, same geronto housewife. Of course, he'll just have to sign up for a certain public call that we'll call. In doing so, it will have to be organised, some are already organised as certain associations to provide this type of assistance. On the other hand, there is an open space here to finance the state by means of modality to a certain level, above which the local self-government unit is financed. So, the same thing we've had so far through direct bargaining with local self-government units where some could give 10% of the participation, some 30% depending on their fiscal capacity. Now it's simply left behind, so the state is funding up to one level. All above that unit of local self-government as much as it can, so much will be financed by the programme. I think another good thing about editing this Geronto home service is that we are now knowing not only who is performing this service function but also how much this service costs. This means that one who has a higher salary and can pay the service directly to the service provider, therefore to a particular group of geronto hosts who will receive this service in order to help, for example, their parents if they cannot do one part of the work they need. So far, that's not possible. I don't think it was good for local self-government and the state to pay you for it. And here's the thing about me with my salary, it's just not right, it's not good. Those who have money can pay themselves at this time know exactly how much service per day and for a particular job a geronto housewife who can do so. I think the advantage of this project is also multiple and self-employment because these women can also find a certain kind of job for themselves. As for some other amendments to this law, one mechanism is envisaged for long-term people who are on the social care system and who, of course, are unemployed. Those who are long on welfare and long unemployed always have trouble getting into a job, they are afraid when they run out of social care to stay without a single dose of safety. We have proposed here a mechanism in which the person who has earned a certain amount in one month, and has not earned enough not to be in the social care system to reduce his social care by so much, which means that it is being realized, that we are only paying the difference and that difference is being reduced for the next three months. So we're giving three more months of some kind of security to these people in order to strengthen them a little bit and strengthen them to actually move into the labour market and somehow get away from the social security system that gives them that kind of security, but it's just not good because you can't be on social for many years. Social support should be only for a certain shorter period of time, not for one part of people who have really been on the social line for a very long time. We have another solution, related to a number of families that are irresponsible to their children, which social compensation they spend on some of their needs rather than children. What we could do at this point, which is that the social compensation centre pays a warm meal at school, which means that at least one number of children will thus provide a warm meal because we have a large number of cases where children are literally, I will not, but I can say that they are literally hungry and I think it is good that we provide them with at least one meal during the day so that we pay for it from the social care system and that in this way we bridge actually this irresponsible parent who spends money and not provide the child with what matters to him. I know that there may still be some other objections that these things may spread to some need, and we are willing to consider it because it is really in our best interests to protect the children in this part of it. I think these are the biggest changes to the social welfare law. Here's the debate all day long, so we can open up everything that's an integral part of the Social Welfare Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57366	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Prime Minister. We have reports of replicas. Honorable representative Branko Hrg and first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, you said in your opening statement that there was a large division of the system and that it should be put all together and we are absolutely all aware and it is important to do so. The introduction of order must be, without it it won't be possible to do much. You also said that local self-government stands out twice as much as the state, so it might be possible to read from your further presentation and explanations that maybe local self-government didn't aim well at users, so it might have singled out more, and I'll say that it seems to me that the system of the current state welfare system didn't aim well, so local self-government was forced to settle and actually allocate funds for those real-life users while, for example, a good portion of the funds went where maybe it shouldn't. And that's probably why these disproportionateities are because local self-government is present among citizens. So, every day you have people coming and asking for help, every day things change especially in these last two years, I have to admit that this pressure on local self-government is increasing and that the growing problem with social care is. What makes me happy, you said here that there would be no savings, that there would be only redistribution, you were talking about homes for the elderly and the powerless. I hope that we will really manage to spend that existing homes for older and powerless who are in that state or county system really come to the criteria that there are people who can pay for property censorship, for what they have and to equalize themselves with all other home users in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57368	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57369	I'd just like to invite you, so we're with a certain number, one three, four units of local self-government as little as possible trying to renetize our users' data in welfare centers and what they're getting from you. About 70 to 80% of people overlap, which means they're taking both at one level and at another, so we came up with a sum of money somewhere between 8 and 9 thousand kunas that individuals took each month. You'll agree with me that somewhere families who work live only on this minimum wage. So, it would be good if, at the very moment when all this data could be obtained through the Social Care Center, it would be much easier for you from the local community to try to network at least once a month with centres and to see little about who these people are because you know best then you can decide for yourself whether it's someone who uses the social system to not have to work or really is someone who needs it. So, there's a lot of stuff. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57370	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57371	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Vice President, so one of the basic intentions when the OIB was being introduced was to make order in social givings, among other things, for the reason that it is when a few billion kunas are summed up together. Since 1.01.2011, there has been an obligation to apply the OIB and only what has not been served has been neither garland, nor geodetic service, in fact not catastran but gruntovnica. There's real estate data in there. And you also have a World Bank study that's been done, and it's about property censorship. Property censorship isn't enough. The family status of those applying for social assistance is very important. It doesn't matter if someone who has 500 or 1000 kunas in a family who receives 15 or 20 thousand kunas together or with 500 or 1000 kuna lives alone in a household. And the logical thing is that whoever has any property can't be a social case. It's simply a fact and it's simply true and that's what I'm saying is one of the reasons why the OIB was introduced, precisely because the existing funds are more meaningfully used and that those who, for this or that reason, have found themselves on the sidelines of society get help to make it easier for them. Also, one thing I didn't notice in the law, and that's what the state pays for health insurance for medically unsecured persons. It is somewhere with the basis of those who did not pay pension and did not pay health and after a certain number of years they do not, on any basis, have the right to health insurance. Sometimes, until '99. The year was at the county level, and later it was transferred to the Ministry of Health, which amounts to 700, 800 million kuna, which is also practically tanging the state budget. And just one more sentence, given that help is given to local self-government units and the state turns out to be a social case in a richer city and being a social case in a poorer city is simply a big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57372	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica was respected Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57373	Yes, I agree with you this last and our analyses have shown, of course, that when you take the poorest municipality with the least social donations and social programmes and the city of Zagreb which is absolutely the highest, that really the difference is quite different. As for this data exchange and the OIB, exactly the OIB is well placed is not one central place. We've been trying to put some more data in the OIB in these two years to pull all the necessary data from one place because it's so much easier to function. The problem was that the welfare system was not informed and we couldn't pull that data back so far. And I have to say that in these certificates that we have now signed for each other's data exchange, there is a M.O.P. It's because of what you just said so we can get information about who he lives with, who lives in that kind of family household. And on the other hand, I hope that by the middle of next year, another major reform will be in place in which we should relieve the welfare centre of these social benefits, and then the centers are left with room to go to the family, so that they do that job that is their basic job, which is going to the family. That way we'll have even better control because only then will they see the real situation. I've been to many visiting centers so they told me you know all this stuff we're doing right now we're writing solutions to the unseen, we don't know who lives in that family. So they don't go out because they're so full of administrative work and we're going to try to transfer that part of the administrative work to some of the other centers that we're going to form, so that we can give them that they can join the family because they have to have a capacity that they don't have right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57374	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57375	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice President, I, too, noticed this where you emphasized the importance of the units of local self-government and certainly these days when the budgets are being prepared to testify to both needs and we know, and unfortunately every year the needs are increasing for sure. But I'm particularly impressed that you've noticed the importance and role of a geronto-domestic woman who is particularly important in our rural environments. And in that sense, we want to make it easier, I'm not going to make anything complicated, but you've stressed that social workers are going out on the field. I come from a county that has an extremely well-organized, well-covered and I believe it's not in this part of negative statistics, but you said that social workers will according to their professional abilities and make everything censorships, models, etc. if I understand correctly if you don't talk me out of it. But I keep saying it's not good because it's just gonna get buried. They have too much to do anyway. And you said yourself with that administration and we witness every day various attacks, etc. Make it easy. They know the leaders of local self-government units who needs who needs them, etc. I want to make it easier in that part. And another thing I've noticed is this intention to involve people with disabilities in the labour market. We also know that according to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is the problem of obstacles, the accessibility of which is often spoken by the Advocate General of Persons with Disabilities that it is very often in some way disabling these persons in realisation and I have little doubt that, given this, the labour market that has so many and so many unemployed and, of course, with these obstacles and difficulties in accessibility, I therefore hold that it is necessary to be careful with the reduction of these fees is not just a realistic achievement of these rights and inclusion in the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57376	Thank you, too. Replica reply respected Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57377	As for this issue of a solution for the geronto housewives, the centres will issue a one-time solution and we have talked to them and they know that now in the first month they will have more work to do, but I also think that, together with those of you who have done so, you may have accelerated some processes. So it's all a matter of our mutual agreement, but the solution is issued once and for all, so it's one job that will now take some very limited time. I wasn't talking about people with disabilities, I was talking about working skills that are on our welfare. So about a woman cleans the staircase somewhere and earns 500 kuna a month, so far they'd have taken it off the social benefits because she's earned something. We will now refuse those 500 kunas and give her the difference she has the right and so on for three months. So if that job works, that's all we're gonna do. So it's about people who can work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57378	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57379	Thank you very much. Dear vice presidents, you spoke of overlapping the rights and illogicalities that arise in the field of social care, but you should also be careful that the new bill does not remove any illogicalness but leads to new illogicalities. And it seems to me that there are several ways to do this and this bill. Namely, the guaranteed minimum fee, unlike the support so far, seems to be affecting the most sensitive parts of society. In fact, working incompetent singles are equating themselves with working singles. Being incapacitated and able to work alone is a big difference, and so far they have had 150% compensation now equalizing themselves with post-workable singles with 100%. In an unfavourable position, families with a higher number of children are placed because this bill regardless of the number of children and age and school status all receive the same compensation. Children of single parents lose the right to a fee of 25%, it's not known what's harder to be either a single parent or a single parent's child, but it's the hardest thing to do together. And I think the 25 percent loss of that supplement hits the most dangerous. The right to one-time support for textbooks is also abolished for children who were users of maintenance assistance. If they're already in restraint status to deny them the textbooks, I think it's affecting the same sensitive group. And the most important thing to worry about is the property of the whole family, not that the richest in society on the burden of the state even their children some Social care. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57380	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica was respected Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57381	We've got a little bit of clarity again, but that's why we're here today to talk about everything and say everything. When it comes to incompetent persons, therefore, they still have all the rights due to some degree of disability or something. Those rights have not been touched, they remain. As for single parents with one child, I said that it was a category that would increase the resources not as much as a single person, we would try to increase 200 kuna, but a single parent would also increase something with one child because it was a population that all studies showed us to get into the poverty rate and that it was the hardest for them. If more order is introduced through this system if an even greater number of people are detected to get through us because they have some or some property or anything else that might save some more resources by the end of the year, so we'll be able to redistribute and do it differently. Personally, here's hoping that maybe that's when everything can really be seen because at this point, it's still impossible. And with textbooks, I think these three fees that will go to the Ministry of Education where they have to make certain criteria for granting these fees can only better also target the compensation for textbooks. Now she's been getting out of a few resistors. The question is, did we really see who's right, who needs it? I think this way, much better, that compensation will really be granted to those children who need that education support fee. And one more thing, we've arranged a transport here now, and I think it's been discriminatory so far. You know that for the last two years, we have decided that children attending high school regularly to have a good share of co-financed by the state, the second part co-financed by local self-government units. However, there is still one discrimination left, and that is that we in the centres paid for children whose parents are social cases. Now it will be all in the same regime because they are children who attend high school regardless of whether they are socially endangered or not and from which grounds they should receive paid transportation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57382	Thank you. Thank you very much. Do the board presidents, working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to submit a report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the HSU Club's turn and the Honorable Vishny Fortuna's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57383	Thank you very much, esteemed President. I'd say first, here's to the minister, his argument, the introduction. In fact, I forgot to answer the line, so I'd just like to say hello to this about welfare institutions where it's very important and important for us at local level to get to exactly those users who don't have property and who need our help. And also, we do very well with those who have property to solve that part together because neither you nor we can do it ourselves. Also, as far as the housewife is concerned, I'm really commending it because all the time I was really wondering how it was possible for the funds to be made known to the mayor, the mayor, and so on. and that these funds are then shared to those persons who have provided this service without any criteria, without the responsibility of the welfare center, etc., that was really me, and now I really commend it because it's something that's a big shift. And the geromat of the housewife, the development outside the institutions is very important. Well, now I'd like to go to a real debate about the new social care law. This is actually the third law in a row now. In the next three years, if you remember, we've had amendments and additions to the Social Care Act. So here I'm going to say, it's really been to expect this bill to solve the most important issues, I'm speaking here in the profession. And I still think that decentralisation of the system in social care is one of the essential areas, the transformation of the centre, and it would be very important that this law has succeeded in uniting the financial benefits or aid already in the social care system and not all of them are united. And I also commend the focus of cash fees on the most sensitive groups where I hope this law will do it. However, we have united compensations from other some systems but we have not united everything from our system, so here I really think it would be better if we had done each other. On behalf of, I commend here positively believe that property censorship is now really putting into operation and that is actually by informing the system happened, by networking the system. And that way, with other systems through the OIB, real data, property and all others can now be obtained. So it's really possible now and it's very important, without it really doing everything we did together we did as we could and not as we really needed it. Here I will mention centres for social care that are really crucial institutions with public powers and are not those powers for now and jurisdiction and are not reduced. I asked on the board and I heard those stop shops and the possibilities to pass it on to the county centers, I hope it will be done. But here I'd say again that it would have been easier if we'd gone at least into decentralisation... The welfare center because then it would be the county office and the center would be one whole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's my opinion that then it would be easier for all of us together. I'm not going to make any more emphasis on the family centers because I asked the board, I got an answer if that's so and I have no reason to doubt what you've answered, but I'd really like to make sure that we don't run out of advisory, preventive work when they join into the competent center, that we don't get enough of those powers that they've had so far. Because at this point, the welfare centres are not yet relieved at all but will be additionally burdened until the fees are removed from the centre. And right in those moments, I'm afraid it doesn't happen that even family center experts start doing whatever it takes to get it done. But I hope you'll take care of it, I'm really asking you not to let the prevention and everything in the Family Law come also to the welfare center. I'd be focusing on the articles now. I'm glad this is the first reading and in good faith I'm going to bring out what I really saw. We have article 28, guaranteed minimum compensation, so that's a new right, right in relation to maintenance aid. It is a fee, a guaranteed fee is the right to cash compensation which is recognised by a single or household, before it was a family, and it was actually a household is better, which has no means of maintenance or is able to achieve them by working, receiving, etc. Although expected, this fee has not united any rights, I have already said that from our law, but here in the guaranteed cash compensation we are uniting rights from other systems which I believe is good but I say, I repeat, I would be more pleased if we had united our rights as well. Now we see here that these are the provision of Croatian defenders to enter and extended compensation during the unemployment and compensation of wartime military and civilian people with disabilities. I'm just curious here if we've done some sort of analysis to see what the number of new users entering this new social care system is, and by chance here it's certain that some users might turn out now, and some where we're talking about families, they're going to have a larger amount of funding, they're going to get bigger benefits. The question is, have we done any analysis to see at all what this situation will look like when we put it together? We know it's the most sensitive and social cases. Furthermore, Article 29 of the basis for the exercise of law. Two different bases are now being introduced to calculate the amount of the guaranteed minimum fee and the amount of other rights in the social care system. Now, so far, the height of the foundation has been determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as it is now, and where it has been precisely prescribed that it can be determined by the poverty line, or by the cost of life. This was the last line of poverty. Now it's impossible to really comment, I believe it's settled but I haven't read it, whether this law will achieve better protection of the rights of users in the social care system even though Article 285 of the bill is a certain level of base for 2014, that's true, but it's my question of what will be in future periods. Is that the basis now that will be in the future? Article 32 provides a minimum fee, unlike the maintenance aid, not only to the point of view, so it is directed towards working singles and so far it has been, but I would point out here that according to the applicable law, it has already been said, but I want to repeat it, they have had the right to help maintain 150% of the base, and now they have 100% of the basis. Although the promoter explained this decision in a way that working incompetent singles other than help have the right to compensation for assistance and care and personal disability, I would like to point out here that these singles who have and these additional rights in the overall system of these aids are few, indeed, very few. And I would then suggest here if it was possible for the guaranteed minimum male benefit to remain at 150% of the base as it has been so far in the support. Furthermore, by proposing a social care law, I said so on the board, and I will repeat that families with a number of children are now being placed in a more unfavourable position. Why? Because now the same amount of base for each child is determined, and so far we know that in the law of help and maintenance we had bases 3 or 4, I don't know now by heart. It's also not good to be, but I just heard it from the minister, I'll repeat only that for children of single parents, a 25 percent supplement is lost. That's really not good, I don't think I even have to explain it. Although this bill makes for single parents who are entitled to a minimum fee of 100% of the basics, instead of 80 so far, I think that, in essence, considering that this again is 25% more unfavourable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As far as employment is concerned, as for the benefits of the employment aid that the minister has made, I must admit that this part is in agreement because our customers have often snuck in, snuck in in on their social assistance, and thought it was something that they always have and so must be and in no way different. It's good that after a certain time, I'm just wondering when they have to wait and have a hard time getting a job, if that's possible, but we'll see when the law comes to life in that part. Article 51 of the Educational Compensation, which is now this one-time money aid for textbooks to help support children so far, and this is now an explanation that this need for children living in poverty will in the future be met through the education system, I do not think it is good enough nor enough at this time convincing enough. I would be calmer and safer if we were still for those children whose parents would receive this minimum fee, that these children would exercise the right and further in the welfare care system to help textbooks. In Article 117, only one name should be changed, the right to compensation for housing costs, but that is why we will note it because it is something that is purely technical. Furthermore, at the social care facility, I would like to point out that family centres are being abolished, but we now have a service centre in the community. This institution will enable the reduction of institutional care, the provision of institutional services to the user and its environment, of course, provided that a network of social service providers is created in it. This should achieve a stronger transformation of social care homes and provide users with better quality services and social integration, especially given that services and treatment are individualised in this way, and the user is given a different procedure. However, I would like to stress here that I have not seen any additional financial resources for this, so I ask if this has been taken into account and that the funds provided for by law enforcement will be sufficient for this part as well. About the welfare centers, I've already mentioned that. They have over 140 powers. They will continue to, that is, Article 126 of the Law, and they will continue to receive new benefits now, that is, to help. When the Family Law is passed, he also assumes everything related to family law by the competent Social Care Centre. I'd really like to see no matter what cash fees will go away on occasion, maybe I hope for a year, but I'd like to see if the centers can do it, even in this period. Article 158(1) proposes to be deleted in the exercise of the right, not the right, but the appointment of the Director to delete the word "or other social sciences". These are the conditions which define the conditions for the appointment of directors at home of social care. Why? The director of the home of social care should be an expert in humanistic orientation and is not acceptable, at least we estimate, I don't think it's acceptable to be a journalist or a professor of mathematics or here in that direction. I think that's important, because we consider it just as much as anything but one of the very responsible management of institutions in the social care system, coordination of professional work, etc. I think if it's possible to at least see if it can be considered. Article 194 proposes that when the rules governing the status and activity of family homes are adopted, the criteria for the establishment and provision of services, as well as the supervision and professional support of the service provider are clearly laid down. This Regulation shall enter Now, it is possible for legal and natural persons who intend to implement the project of providing social services to be instructed by the competent authority which determines compliance with the minimum conditions for the provision of social services. In order to give an opinion on the compliance of the draft proposal with the minimum conditions for the provision of social services, the purpose of this provision is not clear, and the competent authorities are determined by the obligation to provide consulting services. In fact, it is expected that the project proposals will require corrections, so the opinions of the competent authority will be in the free consultation domain. Is this what I'm trying to say? I'll say it simpler. So far, minimum technical conditions have been issued by offices, county offices. This Article 205 now provides that consulting services, or information, that is, if anyone wants to open a home, will do so all of us so far. He comes to us, he comes to talk, we direct, etc. But I don't think I'd agree that we should be doing this, opening things up, etc. And of that, it's very questionable how much of it really sums up in real life. Well, I'd like to ask this article to be reconsidered once again, maybe something changes in that part because we continue to do so just not under administrative procedure, not by adopting an opinion, a written opinion. Because I don't know if we're still introducing how many of these demands we're going to have, and beyond that, it's very often not how people come to be informed. Furthermore, I would also like to mention Article 230(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. You may be surprised, but it says it's banned from the Social Care Centre's professional staff, the spouse's second. And a child to be foster parents which is discriminatory. [[Invader President: Bring the end.]] I think why not if we're experts could be not in that center, not in that city, but for some other kid. I'll have another one in replicas. Thank you very much. The HSU Club supports the natural proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57384	Thank you and the HSU club. It's the replicas. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57385	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a colleague of parliament said in her introduction that various amounts were paid to some mayors for this purpose. Not to the mayors, but to the units of local self-government and those amounts that were for this purpose were definitely spent, they couldn't be for another. It's something that's important in this law that you haven't touched in your debate in the part where you've commented on articles is the question of whether through this system and in this way in some situations we're doing an even bigger sociale than the one that should be. It is mentioned here, and the law says that there are 50% labourable, there are more than ad question with these rights when we speak and that the units of local self-government are given, and that the government budget asks the question of how motivated we are and how able to manage ourselves, to try to activate and make some kind of personal income. What I would like in person is that in this law, it is definitely written and may be dealt with in one or two articles of the question of what the Vice President mentioned, which refers to the property. And I personally have a whole series of examples where a local self-government unit is funded by an older person who has some kind of house, some kind of forest, some kind of meadow. Family, heirs don't take care of her. After she dies, the local self-government unit even pays the funeral expenses, and then some heirs show up who sell their property further and use it. And I think that this is a good path just isn't exactly the model by which a local self-government unit would allow someone this right to be financed, held for life or placed in a home in which the local self-government unit would refund that the funds invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57386	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57387	Thank you very much. I may have said various amounts, but they are not different amounts but are precisely proposals by the executive authority on local self-government, which is always passed by the legislative body. For example, in Zagreb it is a decision on social care that we always forward to our ministry. So they're no different amounts, but exactly what I keep saying is that my opinion that by that decentralisation at least the first part would be united in that part locally and I'm talking about the Social Care Center, first. And secondly, this new bill of law, that's what you've asked, that's exactly what it does, so that right now, we don't really create any more users that I've just said are waiting and remain users but are motivated by them. After two years they must at least show something that they have done, and so far they have absolutely nothing to show, no one has asked them. Now he's going to ask himself a lot of questions. So that's why I really commend this part of the law, and I think it's good, and that's the answer you asked. I think that's how the minister would answer you because it's... positive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57388	Thank you very much. Honored representative Stjepan Milinkovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57389	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I enjoyed listening to your discussion as it was on the board when you were reasoned and professionally approaching this issue. And I agree, of course, with the part where I understand, and the part where I don't trust you. But I trust you and I share your concerns about the family centers I've been talking about. Well, taking care of the family should certainly be the top priority of every responsible society. And we are aware that today our many families are going through the temptations of social uncertainty, in the problem of child rearing, and in this segment, family centers have shown great efficiency. As far as I know, family centres have existed since 2006 and have certainly been significant and the budget of the Ministry of Social Welfare is 0.32%. I believe that this intention is for social care centres to take over that part of prevention and everything that's not a good way to go because people at the social care centres are mostly dealing with the problem they're facing in families. I therefore believe that this is not a good way for family centers to sort out this responsible big and demanding job because the consequences will be far greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57390	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica of Vishny Fortuna's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57391	Thank you very much. As you said you believed me in this part, and I believed in this part of the competent ministry and I really tried and asked around at Croatian level. I watched Zagreb, and Zagreb is only the capital of Croatia. Well what the representatives of the committee said is true, the Zagreb Family Centre and other family centres are not the same. That's one thing. And secondly, I believe that if it is, and will remain in the location where they are, the separate location, etc., I am convinced now that if they meet, and there will be so much work from the family, legislative and everything else they will have to meet what is and that is prevention, then I think it's a legal entity and in this situation of crisis and recession I think it's even positive right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57392	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ana Comparić-Devcic, a new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57393	I thank Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Ministry representatives. You colleagues said at the beginning that you were glad that the financing of the geronto housewife would go through the center. It's nice to meet you, too, and I think it's a very good move. What I was actually going to say to you working in the field, I'm sure you know for a fact that there are geronto housewives that aren't registered anywhere. They're women who protect old and powerless people and actually work on black. And I think that we should also think about this segment, call them old-fashioned and powerless nannies, but basically how we solved the nanny problem, I think it would be very good if we let these women be registered in the system to run their work hours and have a later retirement. Because at least I know and I am responsible for saying at my end, from which we first came to Italy, now it's done enough for us in Croatia. I'd really like you to take care of that for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57394	The reply to the replica of Vishny Fortuna's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57395	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, you said exactly, they were completely unrecorded and I actually don't think that in the system, I'm not going to say for sure but convinced, or I don't think they knew who they were in the system. However, now that this has been taken over by the competent Centre for Social Care and for each geronto housewife will have to make a solution, they will now be recorded by the Social Care Centre. But then it would be good teaching to build one base so these geronto housewives and also those who want to be. The question is my same extra education maybe some of them would be good for them too, because no matter what they do and we know how neighbors do it, etc. Maybe even across the Red Cross there are these humanitarian institutions that are doing the same thing so we can connect it a little bit. But the center's solution will now be recorded, they've actually entered the system, and that's the most important thing. They've been out of the system so far and beyond everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57396	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanka Opačić reported on the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57397	Well, here's after Mrs. Fortune I'd just like to explain a few more things. So, family centers connect with welfare centres but stay in their premises because we need them, they will continue to consult but will also do other jobs. Why did we have to decide this? Because their capacity is simply insufficient to burden them with another part of the job. In fact, out of 82 employees employed in family centres 50% are just experts, the rest are staff, so either administrative secretary or economists. We don't have the money for additional employment, we're trying to ensure the centres that those who retire to hiring people, that they don't stay without the staff they have, given the size of the job, are too little. And on the other hand, as far as family centers are concerned, we have, for example, a Family Center in Međimurje where we only have a principal and no one else. So we can't transfer to that woman any more of the jobs, and we have two family centers that we haven't formed at all, and we won't be able to form them because we don't have the money for new employment. So this is now one situation where we have to deal with those gauges of finance that we have and with those professional capacities that we have. But therefore, family centers remain in their premises and will do counselling but also other jobs that we will see within the family law. As for the defenders, I'd like to say something that I missed in the opening section, which is that defense attorneys under supply received thousands of kunas, so only the defender, is not a perceived family. We're perceptivating the family here, which means that every defense attorney who's socially at risk will now get more money if he has children. So that's not how it's been recognized so far, we recognize it now. The basics are decided by the Government by a regulation that I said at the beginning. As far as working incompetents are concerned, they'll get more, they've had 750 kuna so far, so the single man had 600, working incapacitated 750, now he gets 800 kuna, which means we haven't cut him off at all for nothing but 50 kuna more. As far as children are concerned, nothing changes. The fees are only for textbooks that go to the Ministry of Education, but we still have a student's stay at the student's home during the duration of the school year of 650 kuna and students' fees for which he stopped permanent accommodation or were in a foster family of 2000 kuna per month. Those certificates you have said are not part of the administrative process we must issue them because of EU funds in order to access EU funds and when it comes to that conflict of interest in centres I really do not think it is correct that the husband has foster care, the woman works at the centre and the women issue a certificate and gives his husband a certain number of users. So we suffer constant criticism from the field because of it and it doesn't match it's pure conflict interest and it has to be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57398	Thank you. The replica was reported by a colleague of Vishny Fortuna's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57399	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, this is the first part about family centers that I understood later. And this part would now be referred to this last part about foster families. I agree that it may be a conflict of interest, but I think it's a child's interest if someone from the profession wants to give their family to that child, and I would like to think about it one more time, and I didn't think about it in that town or in that center so that a husband or husband would give a solution to his married couple rather than in another town. I think it would be good just because of the professional staff, if someone wanted to give it to them to make it impossible for them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57400	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57401	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is interesting to have again on the agenda today a new Social Care Act when we know that this government and this House had a Social Care Act all year and a half ago, and it brought it twice after that. In June 2011, the previous government adopted a very high quality Social Care Act, which represented a systematic reform of cash compensation, a reformed social services system and public social services. The proposed bill at the time was the result of the work of the social care system project, which was attended by prominent European experts, and was financed by the World Development Bank. The coming of this government put the law in the trash and joined the creation of a new law that basically served as a good front for the replacement of the director of the welfare centre. Today, this is even more obvious when we listen to everything that needs to be changed and what we are changing by this bill from principle to funding and rights. After all a year and a half, a lot of things are wrong, and the welfare is social, the disabled is disabled, and we need our help. The only thing that's needed every day is more and more. We support the introduction of a fairer social care system and the introduction of order. The current system of social benefits that counts 81 rights, assistance or privilege has different basics, different criteria. This is very difficult and proposed for users, as well as for those who approve of the above. The services are still in the habitation and learning phase, and new rules are already being adopted. We support simplification and information, support and motivate recipients of help to refrain from finding employment. However, it is inadmissible to close the family centers. They are recognised in local communities as institutions that affirm family social values, stimulating and responsible parenting, provide support in growing children and young people. With this touch and marginalize the family, prevention or it's just another front for you to replace the director of family centers. Since a lot has already been said about the family center and the return of that activity back to the welfare centers, I think the fact that this is just a front for cutting the head of the family centre director. In this respect, you have no problem in breaking the European standard of support for parenting and empowering the family, and parents need the help of the state to prevent and separate from the area of social protection. The establishment of family centres as an independent legal person follows the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and until 2011, 19 family centres were formed, and in the last two years alone, we do not have any new centre and the employment of professionals in the same place has been stopped, and the family centres and departments of the Ministry of Interior are the only institutions which have been the founder of the state and have taken over the leading role in different preventive programmes and projects. Shut down the family centers at a time when each third marriage falls apart, when children and young ones remain left with the atmosphere of fear, uncertainty during and after the divorce of parents is unacceptable. From 2010 to mid-2013, more than 88 thousand services were provided in family centres, consultations, numerous educations, workshops, lectures involving nearly 95 thousand users. You certainly know that the closure of the family centre is the opposite of the government programme that you have taken over and implemented the European Union acquis for 2013 and the opposite of the strategic plan that your ministry adopted for the period 2013 to '15th and '14th to 16. Then why are we even bringing in programs and strategies if we're going to change them like this? You keep changing something, hoping for a better one, but it doesn't come any better. You are also neglecting European policy in support of parenting and family empowerment, which is unacceptable for the Republic of Croatia as a member of the European Union, the Council of Europe and the United Nations. Family centers are established with the aim of strengthening the awareness and sensitisation of the public about the needs of modern family. We all have to work on every success and work of the family. And our Constitution is talking about protecting the family. However, today’s government interferes with family and parents ’ rights, forcing education far from what many parents live and want to pass on to their children. We saw this especially when introducing health care. Parents are being targeted by authority. And without authority in the family, he won't even be in the company. What study and assessment of the current status of the family center showed the correctness of this transformation? In our Sibenik-Knin County alone, we record a significant drop in the need for the criminal protection of children where the perpetrators grew up in 2011 by 41%. The perpetrator's minor for 37% and the perpetrator's children for as much as 34% since the founding of family centers. Have you considered the advantages and disadvantages of this reform, or by this law, we will abolish them again in a year to conclude that family centres are important and urgent and that we will be re-branding the new law. Do you know that every kuna invested in prevention returns sevenfold. If you know then in article 128 of the bill, install a family center as an independent institution. You are also warned of discriminatory articles about people with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties and their families. You have not accepted any of the proposals, although the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities guarantees them that fundamental human rights. Even a personal disability is forbidden to persons with two apartments and a disabled person is disabled. And he needs help even though he has an apartment he lives in and maybe another succeeding strategist. Enough support is not provided to single parents, children with developmental difficulties although according to UNICEF research in Croatia in 2013, data show that parents with developmental difficulties live parenting in difficult conditions with increased stress levels and physical health disorders. Therefore, the approach to empowerment should be subtle because neither their children nor their children are concerned but rather the circumstances in which they live and do not offer gossiping support. However, this bill did not put social sensitivity and justice first. And this law applies social injustice to children most in need with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities. In Article 65, parents whose children stay for more than 4 hours a day in pre-school education or health care, home social care, or other maintenance service providers shall be deprived of their status. And it is the parents of children who are completely dependent on the help and care of other persons or children who have several types of serious damage. By prescribing such a provision, it is argued that it came from the fact that a parent has the ability to work part - time. Do you know how often such a child’s parents were forced to stop doing so? That left those families without a single salary. How many such parents had contactable employers who were not insensitive to their problems and allowed them to work for four hours? And how many such children remain living with one parent because of all these problems, because in such families the divorce rate is much higher than the average. Elimination of nursing status would be acceptable for those parents whose children have daily care longer than 8 hours of normal working hours. Parents of a child with developmental difficulties due to a partial or complete absence just to support us, support of the system are forced to use the right to parent status. And finally, this law will certainly bring some new records, new figures, new statistics, something nicer than today, but these figures will unfortunately not be able to change the real picture of life in our country. The number of employees will not change the fact that in Croatia now lives in poverty or social exclusion every third Croat. That we are at the very bottom of the European List of Risks of Poverty, that the number of unemployed has passed over 351 thousand, that the most vulnerable group of young people among whom the unemployment rate is more than 52%, that in October, every day, we have lost the job of the new 1,000 people, and that every day we are getting worse. And that by passing this law or preventing us through family centers, we will not be able to provide social care for all the necessary available and simple ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57402	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas that are exactly eight. The first one was answered by a respected colleague of Vishny Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57403	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, first of all, we won't talk about the family center again, I really believe if what's said means they're going to stay in the same location with the same people, I'd like them to get stronger and more professional personnel, then that prevention won't be left behind, and we're these MPs here who will monitor that part if it doesn't happen. Furthermore, I would say about people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. It's not true that this is all you've stated that nothing has been done at all, it's done. However, the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and in writing and I think it was also oral, that they agreed and that the agreement made that the early intervention service, which is extremely important for children with developmental difficulties, is now going by emergency procedure, so it goes immediately. It is also very important that children, regardless of their parents ’ right to be a parent, will not lose or receive further personal disability, which I consider to be a very big move. So they don't lose their personal disability and the parent remains a foster parent and I wouldn't really agree with your critical attitude against the new law. He brought here a lot, a lot of what wasn't so far, and unfortunately so far there was a situation that we were never sure if we were giving the right people. By this law, I'm convinced we'll be safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57404	The replica matches a colleague of Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57405	Thank you very much. Well, you haven't heard from your colleague Fortuna, at first I said everything we support in this law, but as far as the family center is concerned, I would say again. Then it's obvious if everything stays the same, the same spaces, the same employees and goes back to the welfare center, we return the security activity backwards, and that's all we do is replace the directors of the family centers. As for children with developmental difficulties, the ministry received seven remarks on this law in form, none of which respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57406	A respected counterpart, Boris Kovacic, also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs, in your presentation, you expressed a surprise, here we are bringing and discussing today a new law and last year we passed a new Social Care Act, and you mentioned, in the meantime, that we have brought two amendments and additions to that law which is simply not true. I would like to take a moment to remind you that, as we discussed the Social Care Act last year, it was immediately announced and announced by the Deputy Prime Minister's office that we are going to pass a whole law this year, namely a law that will address social care in a whole way. So here's exactly what we're doing today in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57408	The replica matches a colleague of Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57409	Thank you very much. So I have to express my surprise because a year and a half ago a new law was passed, so it didn't go into any changes and additions, but it says that the Social Care Act has been published by a colleague in the National Journal 33/2012, Amendments 46/2013, 49/2013, which means that here on our benches on three occasions since the adoption of 2012 since we had this Government and this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57410	Now we're going to listen to Tatjana Schimac-Bonacic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57411	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, I think the area of social care is a big, wide, demanding area that actually interests all of us. But in your discussion, it's not clear to me, I'm not sure we're talking about the same law. You as the head of a local self-government if you ask your social workers I believe they will welcome this law very well if you have spoken to them. It's also interesting to object to how many times we've done changes to the law, how we've passed it. It's our responsibility not only to pass laws, so let's just let them go and think we've done the job, no, otherwise the opposite. We have to keep track of law enforcement, listen and make changes and supplements, and that's why it's going to be quite a change until we have a perfect law because we don't have a perfect society. And another thing, Mrs. Branka, this law corrects the great mess and the great chaos that was in the whole system, and what you said was there's no prevention, there's no justice, there's no availability, exactly the opposite. We have prevention and we have justice and we have availability, and the remarks that have come have been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57412	Reply to the replica of my colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57413	Thank you very much. My colleague Bonačić, I said that 81 has the right to help the benefits and criteria of the complexity of all of this and that we support the simplified and informative nature of this part. Therefore, we support what is simple. But I'll repeat my surprise. All the things you're saying today, you need this, you need what you need, and we're correcting it with a new law. A year and a half ago, like you didn't know, like it was some other social thing, some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57414	Here's a replica of my colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57415	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a esteemed colleague, you're telling the exact fact that every third marriage in Croatia is being broken or ruined. Do you not think that this proposal for a social care law, together with the Family Relations Act, will solve all these problems and try to solve and give a legal basis to prevent these problems first and foremost one partner relationship in marriage, help these people, and the protection of children themselves. Or do you think that only by one definition, and at the constitutional level, by defining marriage, we will solve the problems of marriage and that the percentage of divorce will be less. Secondly, you're saying this bill only serves as a cutting point for the principal. I will remind you and there are such examples throughout Croatia. The director of the centre also in many areas, the directors remained members of even HDZ. I'll tell you an example of home for the elderly. It's precisely your colleague from HDZ who stayed in Zadar in that position because she's doing her job. And these other HDZ members you've set up if they've been removed by any chance, they're exclusively talking about the results of their work. You're still saying that the state interferes in raising and family. Don't you think that even someone who defends parents from raising their children, but the right to health and sexual education that you are now objecting to here is the right of children, and the duty of the state to make it possible for them. And you're still talking about heavy and large numbers of poverty, percentages. I'd tell you how much bigger that number is and how our people have been povertyed, we can see it in court proceedings. You're still talking about how the state interferes with the family. 50% of all the murders happened in the family. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much.]] And don't you think the state can get involved in that?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57416	Thank you very much. The replica matches a colleague of Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57417	When we talked about the breakdowns of marriages and the problems that children have after divorce, we also talked about the fact that 88,000 counseling services were provided by family centers, and I would ask all of us, all of you, with a little respect for both marriage and family and parenting. For surely no one can love his child more than a parent and give him the right to live in a family to pass it on to his child.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57418	Next is the fifth replica Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57419	Dear colleagues, you have spoken in your speech many incorrectly, and very often pausal grades, so again you mentioned incorrectly and completely flat-rate and health education. You said that families are being targeted by authority and that they are being prevented from being raised. There is no respected colleague of that parent and this family whose right to raise children in the way he thinks it is optimal. What's our problem is that many families, many parents don't. And that's why when we talk about schooling, you and everyone else are saying that school has to take over the educational work, because parents don't do as much to their children as they should and therefore health care. If you'd read the report on drug abuse on our agenda, you'd see that 80% of 15-year-old kids, 16-year-olds tried alcohol at home, got drunk with their parents, 80% were out there doing all kinds of crap at night with their parents' permission. And yes, and that's why health care is just to strengthen the family and every family, not just the ones you consider family.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57420	And this replica corresponds to a colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57421	I again think that no one loves children more than parents and that we have to let parents live the way they do and want to give it to their children to do so at their will and to them at their disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57422	Next is the replica of Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, both you and your debate and replicas here have indicated the importance of family centers and the necessity of their existence. Of course, there are also some centers, perhaps, that Mrs. Vice President has been instructed to have certain shortcomings. It stands, but there are probably no mechanisms to solve it. I certainly do. But I believe that there have also been many of those family centers that have worked extremely well and well quality, and even the necessity of setting up and branching in view of the problem, the growing problem that many families face on a daily basis. And we also know that prevention in any area of life, there is no alternative that it is always better known to our aproxies "better prevented than treated". And as the family center in that part has done significant projects and shifts in that part mainly in young people, because unfortunately, in young people, we witness that the threshold of alcohol addiction, on everything to move down. And in that part, the importance of family centers is necessary and necessary. And it's a great honor to the welfare centers, and it's a great honor to those honest employees who work extremely responsibly. But I believe that in these circumstances, if there is more of this additional administrative burden, that it will simply have less time for this prevention and that it will be one great damage and that in the future it will cause greater consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57424	Here's an answer to this replica of a colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57425	... 19 family centres were established by 2011 and there was a sign and establishment of branches. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] For example, in the city of Vodice, we were on our way to start a family center branch. Unfortunately, since 2011, no centre has been established since the arrival of this government. There has even been no agreement on the employment of experts in the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57426	He will now present his replica with his colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Juričev, therefore only one who was not in the center, a family center that works well can fall one of these, so I could even say a silly idea to him. This is the easy way to euthanasia of family centers. Why did these family centers achieve good results where it was done according to the rules of the profession. So precisely because they are isolated from one system where unfortunately many, many Croatian families for this and that reason do not want to apply. Unfortunately, the application to the Centre for Social Welfare still has one negative connotation among most Croats. And the family centres because of their physical and physical isolation, because of the professional work of the people who work there have achieved extraordinary successes. And this is not good for these family centers to move to welfare centers because I simply don't see any financial, organisational, or any other reason. But I repeat, you need to go to this center that works well, which can serve as some kind of pattern to see how things that are well-placed work great. They, in fact, we leaders then the unit of local self-government that we founded those centers at the beginning of this century we were aware of these facts and the results of these centers are today as they are. However, colleagues of Juricev you spoke of one more thing, and these are the funds. It is very interesting that, for one such comprehensive law, we are practically incurring four resorts, several hundred thousand Croatian citizens, and then, in the light of the law, you write that you do not need funds at all. Now I don't get it... you increase social rights, you want to reduce social rights, you want to need more funds or you want to need less resources? One of these many changes to the law can't go all to one pile without changing the necessary funds in the state budget. And also let's not forget when we talk about local self-government units, just one sentence please,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57428	You had two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57429	All right, okay, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57430	The last line is respected colleague Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57431	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. My esteemed colleagues and I were distracted by part of your debate, in which you spoke of the introduction of health care as something bad. I absolutely disagree with you and the events that we have had in recent days, weeks and months of witnesses have just confirmed that we need both health and civic education. Because health education is about to provide more mental health and understanding, a higher level of gender and sexual equality, and it will increase both the tolerance and humanity that we need.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57432	Last reply to the last line, Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57433	Parents should have asked their parents about health care, and parents would certainly have the best way to say what is best for their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57434	Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanka Opačić have now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57435	I understand why this debate is being held around family centers and why it will not be heard what I said here on two occasions, but good. He's been going around e-mailing everyone that they have to manifest themselves around family centers, so you're doing it neatly, I respect it. Namely, I would just like to say once again family centres, so their employees, perhaps part of the Social Care Centre staff, will work among other things and consult, remain in the rooms where they are because we need them. Maybe we'll also use them to meet parents with children because at this point a part of us people are walking around shopping centers because they don't have anywhere to go. We have no money, the fact is that in the last two years, we've only hired those staff at social care centres because the pressure on them is enormous because we've received about 10,000 new social care users over the last year. They didn't come to the family center. They came to the Center for Social Care. So, so much for why we didn't strengthen the family centers. Because we just didn't have any financial resources. We're both last year and this one or the pay shortage, and that's being solved every year by redistributing into rebalancing. As for children with developmental difficulties, please read the articles carefully, in particular Article 65. First, we did what I promised here a year and a half ago, which is that we returned 50% of the fees for those kids going to school. So that was discriminatory, the one whose child went to school, which integrated 50% of his disability, was not paid for so far. We put it back, it's an extra 5 million kuna in our budget that wasn't easy to find. But since this integration of children is important to us, that 5 million kuna is a good role for us in these children. Secondly, that the parent parent who leaves the child completely in the institution and the institution takes care of the child can no longer have parent status because that status is intended only for those who have decided to take care of their child for 24 hours. Another change where we have also tried to help these parents a little if more than 4 hours a child stays in a particular institution, primarily an educational institution, does not lose parent status if the parent is with his child and provides support. We can't pay double functions and on the one hand a parent nurse, on the other hand an assistant in the follow-up. So these children need support and parents who have parent status in that section must be supportive and not lose parent status. And just about cutting off your head nicely please, if I wanted to cut your head off in these two years because I had all the mechanisms. So it's really my last urge to do business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57436	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57437	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with the Deputy and Associates. So today we are talking about the Law on Social Welfare, an area that is very important, sensitive, large. Up to date, the most often occurs in times of crisis because it can also mitigate the consequences of the crisis, but very often it can be used in one wrong way to actually safeguard it and social peace. The new law introduced the structure, we in the SDP believe that the new law introduced structure, new changes in monetary fees, social services and status changes. Talks with social workers show that the big problem is always their administration. There's a large number of cash donations and it's a very demanding administrative job. A lot of time is spent on writing, and very little time remains for direct work with users why social workers have also defined themselves, a little time for advisory monitoring to draw up a plan, for individual planning. We're wondering if the bigger thing is to get a client, a man out of trouble, or give him 100 kuna? There's no man in the system from all the papers. When we talk about monetary fees, the unifying of the same ones will surely come together by unifying that administration. This proposal clearly defines the income asset censorship in terms of justice. We had examples that some families had more rights to cumulation than those and would have more income than those who worked. This is how it is now corrected, and that is how it is a matter of righteousness. It is also important to mention work activation for unemployed social assistance users, we have heard about it today. It was a problem for many years that such a man was spinning in the system, a man who didn't work so as not to work but was supported by the system to do so, the system enabled him to do this work inactivity. Now for the unemployed, work is working in this way stimulates essentially employment. We are also in the opening part of the minister we heard most citizens were afraid to accept seasonal jobs and here the change is being made, the transitional period for fees is being introduced when the first month is given 100% compensation, the second month 50, 3. Twenty-five, four months' fee's going out. It is also stressed that employment institutions play an even more active role if a citizen refuses education, if he refuses the offered job, the fees are shut down. Therefore, good contact between the Social Services and the Employment Service. Then mentioned information, it is, of course, a major improvement because it will automate and submit payment requests, etc. It won't take that hill of paper that citizens had to bring and visit various institutions and bring. However, here I would stress another proposal for units of local self-government, which is that it may be necessary to define more clearly the rights that they have for their fellow citizens because it is very often coming in practice to come and to just ask them which rights are there, and then it is later going for all these documents, so there is one lame walk. When recognising the right to cash compensation to households or singles who do not make enough income to meet the basic life needs of research, they have indeed shown that the most vulnerable are singles and single parents, and precisely this proposal protects singles and single parents. Because we're aware that in families if there's someone who's threatened but if he has a family, then he can get something from that, and this way he needs more money to pay a favor. It is also introduced, this is commendable, non-suspensive effect of the appeal. A very important change in recognition and termination of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee. For example. The withdrawal of the right to money complains, but it is not carried out to the power of power. When he loses when the appeal comes to power, then he has to pay back. Now the complaints won't be able to suspend the solution, it's going to stop right now. So we're going to reduce the administration, that way we're going to reduce the performance, that way we're going to reduce all the unnecessary things that were. We also commend the Institute for the notes of claims that can ultimately act positively on the care of children toward parents, which is unfortunately very often forgotten. One more thing about the muffled minimum fee or the poverty line and why the state does not allow people to fall. Conditions for approval shall be laid down on the basis of income and assets cumulatively, the right cannot be exercised by a user holding assets greater than the prescribed asset price. However, the guaranteed minimum fee belongs to any person who does not have sufficient income for life. A single fee shall mean a single administrative procedure to be carried out in the centres. So here, too, I stress the objective of this law, which is a fairer distribution of social transfers. When we talk about social services in order to improve the social services system, it is very important and proposed to reorganise the work of social care centres. You know that it's very difficult to do more jobs at the same time and that efficiency is greater if it's something special, if we focus on a particular area that we certainly have a better efficiency or quality of work. Therefore, competence is important, further education is important and it is important to focus on certain issues in the social care system. Network service providers will actually form prices of these minimum quality standards. You'll know what the price is and what it takes, what we get for that price. And it's also important that you can pay for a direct service. We know exactly what is spent and for what is intended. A service is paid, not a customer's money. And that's very, very important, that's how we rationalize and achieve actually the right goal that we want to pay for. For home assistance and care services, free service is provided by users who generate revenue up to 300% of the base, we now propose co-financing of services, we welcome the same, users who make revenues from 300 to 400%, that is 50% is financed from the state budget and 50% are the users or units of local self-government. Negotiating mutual relations and this is good, in fact, to determine and conclude the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. For the purpose of deinstitutionalisation, homes would now have one role to play in providing extra-institutional services, they were, all day long, half-day, etc., patronage and assistance services, him in the house. I know there's already this one outside of institutional service in Dubrovnik, and it's been very good for the residents. It is proposed that in the process of home transformation, individual homes become centres for providing services in communities. In the status changes here and today, there have been a lot of misunderstandings of even family centres, i.e. the transformation of family centres that are attached to social care centres, not physically but are attached in terms of status changes as new units, these are centres for family meditations or family counselling centres. So far, if the mediation was done then went to social care centers, then social care centres would refer to the family centers there that did it. Now the role of the family center is binding, and that is exactly the difference. And that's why I'm saying, only now will there be real prevention, before it was informal and now it's formal. It's a real role. It's only now that it gets family centres to play a real part in prevention. Provisions shall also be made concerning the selection of the Governing Council. We welcome the proposal for provisions for the promotion of professional workers in welfare institutions and the regulation of the area of conflict of interest before mentioned, professional workers, at social assistance centres. And just as social workers have actually apostrophe that's a very good move. Therefore, we can conclude that the welfare system has brought the user closer, that it has directed assistance to those who need it most, therefore, we have better control, we have greater, smaller, greater service and higher service quality. This law should lead to finally working with users. And now all I'm gonna do is tell a social worker conversation I talked to yesterday. A social worker who has a lot of education, who is very competent, who is very sensitive and emotional, a social worker who worked in the welfare system. However, he felt bad social workers because he did not meet his administrative obligation and was a bad worker. But he was actually running after a client to get him a job, to work on a client. And now we're wondering what's more important, and I hope that this social welfare bill will work in that direction as well. Here on behalf of the SDP Club we support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57438	Thank you. A respected colleague, Boro Grubisic, has applied for a debate on behalf of the HDSSB Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57439	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we count and what was actually supposed to be the reason for taking a break in the Croatian Parliament 351 thousand unemployed. An alarming number, very alarming with a tendency to increase the number of unemployed, not with a tendency to fall, where luck can stop or drop a number. The number is moving further at a pace of up to 1,000 unemployed, new 1,000, newly unemployed daily. And it's good that we have today and a debate that just sort of said, I'd kind of agree with this topic that needs to be discussed, which is the proposal for a Social Care Act. Because those who I say enjoy social care in this way and who are on, to say on the social welfare list almost 50% are those who belong to the category of unemployed and capable, physically capable people. Every day, therefore, the need for social care is increasing. The complexity of this matter is exactly what they said here, very often changes in the law and new additions and everything else. So here in two years we have had one change of law and two, so a new legislative proposal and two amendments to the Social Welfare Act, and here we now get what the Minister and one said, so a more comprehensive legislative proposal that has 289 articles. So the number of articles where everything that can happen in receiving social care is, in fact, attempted to predict and regulate legal articles. Why is that? Often in certain moments of our lives we hear a message that, it seems to me, it is from the Bible, no one was born alone, no one dies alone, let alone lives. So the Law on Social Welfare, or the problem of social care, is very much related to this definition, I would say life. No one is born alone, has a mother, father, brothers, sisters, aunt, aunt, etc., and no one is even dying because they also have them around them and for themselves, which relatives, which friends, acquaintances, etc., and yet in life the same happens. And that is why all of these articles that have been quoted, especially from colleague Fortuna or in the translation of happiness from Latin, are going through all these articles, how to prevent those in the welfare system from achieving what they do not therefore belong to, and yet how justly to enable those who really need it to receive what they belong to and what is necessary, mainly in these days, to increase the number of unemployed, increasing the risk of poverty because here according to some statistics in Croatia, 31% of the population is poor. Family centers. Since I didn't read any districts to say the letter that anyone sent or got it, I didn't get it, I won't talk about it. It could also be said that they were founded to set someone up as they are now abolished so that here they would be, as the princes said, as someone says. But according to statistics, family centers that have done such a huge job of 88 thousand services to 95 thousand users and then all that is happening in our society is numbered. Every third marriage falls apart, so what effect is that then I wonder. How they acted at this time as they existed. As it may be, I won't speak in which area, in which part of our country, there is only a director of the center. What can he do without any helper workers, etc. I know where but I won't talk, someone already said. The minister said 82 employees at 19 centres, out of 50 professional employees. Hundreds of thousands or millions of marriages in the Republic of Croatia 19 centres with 82 employees. What are we talking about? I wish we had 100 centers and thousands of employees, and to save every marriage that's in danger, every child that comes into a situation to be a single parent's child, etc. What about the law itself? It is true that here I do not know whose initiative tried to avoid conflict of interest, so that the employees of the centre, even their relatives, so the near relatives are not allowed to act within the meaning of the one in which I am several times if you remember... said that there are opportunities for malfeasance and that the employees of the welfare centre are involved in the situation where someone else's help is needed, as they say in Slavonia Communion, so the contract of lifelong restraint, etc. So they're pretty much like that and let me say secretly or secretly they're rich. They became owners of a large number of real estates in the Republic of Croatia, each in its centre and its neighborhood mainly. And it's good that this is regulated by this one, I'm not going to ask for 289 articles and I've been writing, I've read, and I can't say right now exactly in those, in those legal provisions. I received other e-mails or e-mails in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia comment each separately on this legal proposal. One says this, that there is nothing against social assistance, each of us can one day find ourselves in a position to need it, so let it be a little higher, and that is the legal minimum provided for in the minimum gross salary in the Republic of Croatia and be paid. But we are all witnessing that this aid has been unscrupulously exploited by some people whose only job was to visit state institutions, and the largest poverty has been given 600 kunas, it needs to be eradicated. But there is another much bigger problem, which is that the minimum wage is less than social aid. It's a terrible paradox, almost deliberately fostering the unhappiness of the property censorship. And that's what the minister said here, that especially in the textile industry where employees really have and where it's a low-accumulated branch of industry where they have low wages that can happen. We're asked by some of these e-mails, they say what about the property that's been prescribed, so they're donated to children, and these same kids don't take care of their parents, and they belong to the care of the state's welfare. Furthermore, one of the email writers writes that a minimum compensation under the Social Care Act is guaranteed two and a half thousand kuna, 2900. However, this guaranteed fee in reality, or at the Social Care Centre in one city, is the largest city in the Republic of Croatia, says 200 to 500 kuna of one-time annual cash aid because the money says no. That's what the referents say to social care users, money's gone, it can't pay you back. The solution allows you to sign that amount without the right to appeal. So take it or leave it. They use the lack of citizens to sign such an inhuman and illegal solution. Does the Minister know about this question? That writer of these lines. If that's her guideline to the centers, then it's sad to be so deceived and deceived says hungry and disreputed citizens. Or if it's not a clue, then it's a matter of being alone, so the center and all. I can send you an e-mail later, or this paper where it happens exactly, the address. I wouldn't go into these recommendations like they were between Mrs. Jurič-Martinchev and you. It is truly true that her parents love their children the most, even when she accidentally gets some kind of alcohol, etc. Again, a parent loves that child no matter what happens to him. Well, when a kid or an adult turns out to be in jail and then he loves him because prison is for people after all. A parent always loves his child and really thinks the best of his knowledge, his understanding, of his traditional or other education. No, there is no state institution that can love and care for that child more than a parent. There is no Minister and Minister, forgive the ministers that you are here, that he may love any child from the parents of that child. And that's true, the only truth. For this reason, the regulations sent by the Government for health care in addition to what is called the fourth or so. It's a short breath, but good about it, by that. It's not today's time or place to discuss it. But I wanted to say something else that offered me another phone call and I'm taking the opportunity, I haven't seen you in a while Mrs. Secretary who complained to me that he was looking for a so-called. Help, care and help for his wife to be a carer because she had cancer I won't tell you what and lives in Lasslova near Osijek. So, I'll tell you after the name and last name if you want to go, beg, go to the committees, send it to the ministry. And in the end he won, he was rejected. Finally, it was resolved and the ministry sent a memo, the ministry's commission just the day that the lady was buried to have the right to help her wife. Here's what I'd say about one speed, one stop shop how nice it is to say it here. It's already and it seems to me that the stop shop was an expression and from the former government as Mr. Sanader used to say, "HITROREZ or I don't know what, so about that speed and intervention and in practice, so the pragmaticity of the law is important to intervene quickly and not allow people to walk as this one gentleman says here to walk, to visit state institutions and ministries and time goes. And today a child who cannot get bread and milk or family can hardly understand or accept the slowness of the administration when it is so difficult for them. What do you say about this law? I say we don't need new money, new material resources to implement this law. Therefore, it is thought that some distribution is precisely by reducing the rights or lifting the rights of those to whom it does not belong, and giving to those to whom it belongs actually makes one balance in which no new means will be needed, new allocations for social care and for help, all the kinds of assistance that are being provided. They say here they're now uniting four into one like that coffee, right? Four, it's not three in one, it's four in one. So, to unite these four rights into one that is already said here, it is an institute guaranteed minimum fees as a new form of cash compensation that combines four so far charges with the social component. So, extended cash compensation Here I am. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] So we'll still think about how we'll vote until the debate passes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57440	Thank you. The replica was answered by the esteemed Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57441	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Grubisic, you have spoken about family centers as well as your predecessors and mentioned one fact that everything, every third marriage, is falling apart. You wondered if those centers could stop you, what they did. And this information 82 employees at 19 family centers, I think the question is addressed to the wrong address. I don't think even the family centers could have prevented it. I'm not going on this merger thing, I'm not talking about it. It is certain that Croatian society in the last 20 years, for two decades, has not taken care of families especially those who swear to the family, especially those who swear to morals. Well, for example, I am certainly talking about my opinion that the fact that every third marriage is falling apart is not so surprising if you are looking at the "In the Name of the Family" initiative is absolutely certain that no one sees this family or any one who will want to marry after seeing this anxiety that is present and exclusive in Croatian society. If it is marriage and if it is a community of people who love each other then it will be in the next report that every other marriage is falling apart. We are a society that requires morality only from speakers, in practice we live a completely different life. Well, the ones who swore most against theft were the ones who stole the most, the ones who held onto the heart when the Croatian anthem played they actually stuck to what the people said about the wallet and inside with other people's money. So when we talk about family, let’s first talk about humanity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57442	Thank you. The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57443	Thank you very much. I don't share your opinion at all with my colleague Vuksic. In fact, you abused my argument that was well-intentioned to promote some of your views. 740 thousand signatures, 740 thousand people cannot be manipulated. You can manipulate around 5, 10 I don't know, but 740 thousand people can't. I don't get into it at all, but it's a fact, so the fact is what they'd say in Bosnia is that 740 thousand people signed that referendum question. You can't ignore that. As you won't be able to ignore that millions of people will sign a petition for a non-civilist in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57444	I now call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs. Milanko Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57445	Here I can just save time from here. I just want to say something. So it wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57446	Minister, you must report on behalf of the motionary for a pay phone. When you respond to a replica, you're out of place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57447	Just a few answers. So there were no instructions from our ministry about one-time cash donations. It's something every center estimates as much as it needs. We only had instructions about this revision to go into the revision of those rights to be seen because it was something that was not worked so intensively so far. As far as the rights to other people's care and help are concerned, it's a matter of skill and the fact that in the second degree, we can only decide as a ministry and see if anything has been missed or not. In that sense, for all persons who have this kind of skillful need, I think it might help a single body of art, you will most likely very quickly here on the bench get one law in which you will see therefore a unique body of art that should be skilled in all parts of Croatia by the same criteria and by the same parameters that we have no injustices and irregularities that we have so far in that part. And just another correction on this bill change, you're all talking about the law being changed three times. Not true, the law was amended a year and a half ago, and these two published in the National Journal were one authentic interpretation and one correction. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57448	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of Croatian Labour Party Labour Party will speak to respected counterpart Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57449	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I have prepared one way of expressing myself about this law but the replica of the minister to my colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, and regarding the reading and reading of e-mails and some of our good wishes to convey the voice of all those for whom we are here in this House and in the name of which we should speak we should offer to go in another order. So I took one of those e-mails out and I'm going to share it with you today, and I think there's a question about how this law is going to work in practice and whether or not we're going to make it work in quality. Mail was sent to the Social Services Centre, one of the employees wrote, and therefore says this: "We disagree with the fact that through this law, we are being brought into the centre by a new authority and by an even greater number of users. In fact, the new law will relieve the Employment Service and the Ministry of Defence because these users will now come to us under this law. In our case, one social worker has over 400 families in treatment while in Europe the standard is 30 families per social worker. This agency, thought of as a single cash center, is meant for the monetary donations mentioned by the minister in the opening part of the law, we need to be first set up and then passed a law like this and allowed them to make monetary donations. Information is not being carried out as planned and we are still not connected to the IRS or to the Pensions and Police Office. The only way we're connected to the police is through the OIB in a way that when we enroll the OIB from the police, they send us the residence of that person and that's the only information we get from the information. Most of the centres are not yet networked or will be up until the end of 2013 because they do not have a high-quality internet. Mostly with such a law, we only increase the number of parties and those most critical defenders and victims and children of the Homeland War who will now have the rights to supply when they come to the centre under this law for reasons which are much stricter criteria for the exercise of rights than for the Croatian Institute of Health or the Ministry of Defence. These people are mad at us and then we're surprised at the Slavonski Brod case and now recently the Rivers. We're surprised that there are no more such cases in this chaos. With this law, we're afraid to be because we're really shooting at stitches. So, we do not agree that this minimum guarantee fee we do in the center but first form a single monetary centre of the body or whatever it is for monetary payments, and then let it take effect to recognise that right. In addition to all the above, we stress that information is totally useless or impractical and that it will take us a long time to get into the story. We're mostly terrified that there's no hearing, it's meant to be the minister of social policy and youth, for the socially endangered, and for us social workers you know we're saying that we're insolent unemployed." With all the power of e-mails really coming from the D.A.'s attorney for people with disabilities, from individual social benefits users, I think this email tells us about the problem we're getting into. I'm extremely glad that we're being introduced here's the property censorship because I think we're all more than bitter when we see people coming in the coats and Mercedeses in social services, literally, it's not just that we're talking about some kind of social compensation, and that's what hurts everybody. However, the law was so, and they all took full advantage of their rights and no one should have told them not to get it because the papers were valid as such. This property censorship will certainly bring order and order into social benefits, but what concerns me personally is how these social care centres, or those employees, will be able to provide quality services that the law imposes on them. We are all more or less day-to-day witnesses whether our neighbours are contacting, whether with any of the needy who tell us that they are coming to the centres but that social workers simply don't see him because until they fill out all possible forms that they need to fill out, and the law said that they must do so in a certain conversation simply at that moment and in this way a man loses somewhere. The problem with families problems related to juvenile delinquency, we have now had a recent police report where we have seen an awful great deal of information about young people who are out in the night, which means parents don't care about that grandfather. We ask who cares about these people, and how can they be helped? I agree that a parent always wants his child best, but the question is how much a single parent is capable of assessing what is best for his child and how much he really is capable of doing the best for his child at a certain time and giving it to him. At that point we need professional workers, we need psychologists and all the others who can help us solve the problem in the best way possible. and now we come up with a problem that essentially in the welfare centres very, very rarely we encounter compassion and understanding of workers who work there and perhaps not because they are insolent because schools and many of them are doing their work with love and with certain enthusiasm and with certain motivation, but the problem is that every day we have more and more and more users of social assistance which we will witness every day that these users will be more and more. We have 351 thousand 23 unemployed days, these people need welfare because they have nothing to live on. We have more and more violence every day in both families and violence among young people and violence in schools, which certainly results in that economic situation of each individual and we come up with a situation where we lack staff and the question is whether with such a model that we do not transform among other and family centres because it is not the transformation of family centres, we end them and attach them to social care centres, we will manage to meet all the needs that are ahead of us. Today it was about the changes that are being predicted, that happen, that I won't repeat them, but I would like to give a look at a few things. When we talk about such an extraordinary and important law and when we make certain adjustments, and these changes concern the most vulnerable, most vulnerable, we can say by looking at some sort of professional equipment and those individuals to say that much of these people are less educated people. If we look at the structure by age, a large number of those in need are older people, so people who generally don't understand that law in a way that maybe someone younger, someone more eloquent, and that's another problem. Because with these laws, we come to know the meaning of one created, we have social workers who don't have time to make quality commitment to social cases, which means they don't have time to go out on the ground, see what conditions they live with, whether they live alone, whether they have food, whether they don't have enough people who have the right to social aid, but here nobody told them they may have the right or are unable to read the new law, and then we get even bigger problems. By passing laws in such a way that they are not applicable and that they are not adapted to those concerned, it is not good because we are ultimately coming up with even bigger, bigger and bigger problems. One part of this law refers, for example, to the motivation of long-term unemployed people. I mentioned before, so now they have the right for two years to be at the Employment Office under this law, after which they must find a job. They have to. What do you mean they have to? 351 thousand Croatian citizens would like to find a job and I believe that a large part of those people who are at the Employment Office are just these people who need and are on welfare. What if after two years he didn't find a job, he didn't want to, he couldn't, he didn't want to. What happened? That's not what this law says. And we just say two years on the assumption that in two years, I have to find a job, no matter how much anyone would like to find it. And if we knew that in two years my dream of having a job would come true, we would all be satisfied and patiently waiting for two years to pass and that after two years we could get a job. It's good that this fee is not immediately lifted, that we're going three months gradually in terms of some adjustment and some kind of security. But I don't think it's gonna be any big motivation, because all those who would like to work on the truth and people who live on their own and people who have any dignity, they wouldn't want to go to the social work center, but rather than waiting for this social welfare bill to read the Labour Act instead, because that labour law would mean that they got a job and watch what their rights are based on work and not what their rights are based on social care. When we talk about this motivation of long-term unemployed people, I went to see a little bit, we had this component of 4, human resources, so I tried to give myself a little effort to see how much it was and how much we did together with the employment office just about this one, to motivate people who are long-term unemployed, who are in employment offices to give them the opportunity to overqualified and find their jobs. Unfortunately, I will say just an example of our nannies that we talked about so much, in this House, when we passed the law on them and how much money was spent on such programs and similar programs in all counties through the Employment Office, that is, millions of amounts which were the associations that were bearers, project holders, which are local self-government, which are municipalities or cities. And unfortunately, we have no record of how many of these people based on these spent millions and some education with managed to hire. We were recently witnessing that we heard that of all those nannies that we talked about so much, that we were working on a special law because the Law on craftsmanship for them wasn't good enough for us to realize that only two of them had opened their own private crafts. If we had in addition to this law an analysis of the existing situation, that we had parameters and that we had what this law would bring better or worse for a certain quality of users of social benefits, then we could have a quality debate. This is our word for believing what's about to happen. On the other hand we have, we are getting information that is consistent with these promises that we hear from the legislators of this law and that is what puts every citizen of the Republic of Croatia into uncertainty. Because as we have heard before, I think my colleague Grubisic said, no matter who today is helping tomorrow's social assistance user must be each of us. And when we discuss and discuss such important laws, then everyone has to put themselves in a position that this law is about him and we have to bring him in and discuss him in a constructive, quality way where we're going to protect exactly the ones most needed that we swear we care about. As far as we care, we show by law, we show by what we vote on, and we show by the will to respect these people's proposals, to respect the profession's proposals, to respect the Ombudsman's proposals in the public debate, and to hear the employees of the social work centres most competent to tell us what the problems are. If we don't do this, if we don't implement their suggestions in these laws in the long run, we don't do well, we don't do bad things, and we don't solve the social services, but we'll only have problems with the social system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57450	Thank you. To this replica exhibition first stood up by counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57451	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrelli, you have said well that for a man it is pride to work and to live. So that's not to say both God and human law. The law of every country. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, we see what the unemployment rate is and that these laws of both God and man are not worth it. You were talking about informing, so what Mr. Shucker mentioned, that OIB is unhappy who should actually show the situation, so all the income of the one who seeks social care but not only him but also all those close to him who are related to him in some kind of family relationship with him and are obliged to possibly care or provide some kind of help to that person. You also told the babysitters exactly and I watched a report saying that the law and the retraining of the nanny, the opening of a private business only worked in two cases in the Republic of Croatia and we really spent millions on the basis of that law and a great debate here in the Assembly in connection with this Nanny Act. The violence in the family, you know, you say that it's gotten very high and that we have statistics that show it. So you see whenever any family, when there's not enough means and money to live in, and for all the other needs that are natural and human, then there's conflicts, conflicts, there's troubles, it's gnawing, and it's giving birth to some extent, I'm not saying it's giving birth and this particular violence in the family. Any relationship between husband, wife, child, mother, child father, etc. So, the situation, the social situation in society, brings about exactly the increase in that part of which you have been talking about domestic violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57452	The replica matches Nancy Tyrell.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57453	Comrade Grubisic, we will all agree that this must finally be brought back not only for social reasons but also for those who are not on welfare but here we are also witnessing some of their life stories and situations that are happening. And if that OIB really did come to life for everyone and in the same way I believe that then the minister in his ministry would have less worries and less headaches because the money would certainly be more in the ministry alone if they were to meet the most needed right now. When we're talking about, I'm going to go back to the nanny just to tell you that Regional Development Agency Porin, together with the Rijeka area service, used those incentives of the IPA programme related to the development of human potential and precisely on the trail of this that these long-term unemployed groups in this case were women and women over 40 years of age and women who haven't been able to find employment made a certain education to give these people a tool for easier employment. The project lasted 12 months at Rijeka's location, and 165 thousand euros were spent for the project. That would be about a million or two thousand kunas somewhere. Now imagine that these million 240 thousand kunas can be freely said that we are good at these two educations for those two nannies that that craft and opened and that's always the question that we are asking ourselves, whether we are poor or rich. We're a rich society because as long as we spend such programs on these projects, and we don't do any control projects afterwards, and what added value that spent money put in and brought in all of this, then we're too rich to spend the money we have in a quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57454	Another replica will be presented by counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Tirelli, you said in your speech that people who haven't found a job in two years to lose their right to social benefits, but that's not true. So I read the law, and as far as I understand the law, and I believe I'm fine because there's a pretty explicit law, so over a period of two years, a social benefit user will have to go through education, counseling, etc., etc. Only if they refuse the offered job then fall out of the welfare system, but if after two years, then no one offers him a job fee for another two years, but after three months of break. So it's not like these people are gonna lose anything. It's interesting that you mentioned the nanny, I would only refer here, perhaps even pull the parallel with the strategy of developing the entrepreneurship that we talked about and the need to create an atmosphere of entrepreneurship. I'm afraid that people are afraid to go into entrepreneurial waters, or people who want to do this job don't want to open a trade. If they are not present on the market in this form, then of course no one can hire them. I believe there are many units of local self-government that would solve the problem of lack of kindergarten but I can't hire someone until he's registered on the labour market, so in this case as a trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57456	The replica matches Nancy Tyrell.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57457	Oh, here we go. Let's go from the beginning. Three months off after two years, I'm just wondering what these people are gonna live on for three months if we haven't been able to find a job after two years and then put them on some stand by for three months. Explain to me, they can at the age of two receive a social compensation enough to squire for those three months to live on what they've done. I say I can't because the minister herself said that 600 kuna per month is known and that 800 kuna per month is known and that each kuna has a weight. As far as entrepreneurship is concerned, it is very difficult for today in Croatia to take on such a responsibility that a self-employed person becomes an entrepreneur for very, very many reasons, and the biggest reason why it is is precisely insecurity is because the entrepreneur does not know what tomorrow is waiting for him and what laws tomorrow will concern him and where he will come from. I agree that if someone is not on the labour market that they do not recognize him as such and that he may have fewer opportunities or fewer chances. I didn't say they didn't need education, I didn't say they didn't need incentives to get people who had been unemployed for a long time to get out of school, requalified, or anything else in a lifetime of education to get to a new job as soon as possible and easier. I just said we're too rich because the money we spend on 40 or 50 people not after that we control and we don't draw any conclusions as to how much that money has added value to us. If we invest in 30 or 50 people then it would be logical and desirable to ask ourselves whether these people went to work or not after a certain cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57458	Third and last replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57459	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Tyrelli, and I'm one of those who got a significant number of e-mails and of course we didn't intend to read them all, it would take too long, but from these e-mails we found out how classy this social problem is and unfortunately every day it's getting bigger, it's increasingly necessary. But you, I'm glad you really cited the one who's been talking about the problems of those who work in that system, about those honest people who've been hard at work for years, are responsible. The people I have contacted I have had professionally with many to work with, are indeed honorable, responsible and dedicated people and the fact that they are really with excessive administration, meeting these, such forms too burdened and, of course, for that professional part remains less time and, as a consequence, many unwanted things happen that are very often witnessed. And that's why I was saying in that sense about the geronto housewives that there's no need to burden them further. Why, because he'll say it once a year. It's a dynamic process, it's changing, many of the elderly die in a year, that list is changing, it's dynamic, it's changing over the year, and there's no need to add to it in that one time that it has to get back on the ground. So I believe this is one area where autonomy can be given to local self-government that should have a field review. Special attention deserves that domestic violence. And I think that would require a longer discussion, there's no time for that. I'm sorry that there's not a model where we units of local self-government that are kind of praised today to put forth efforts where it's not a safe house project as such recognized where we in rural areas have really shown significant results but there it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57460	The replica matches Nancy Tyrell.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57461	I thank my colleague. Well, I got that e-mail out for nothing but to really point out the law enforcement problem. It's not just the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. It's a case in a large number of ministries where somehow we forget that all those who are on the ground, and in this case, welfare centres are just an extended hand of the ministry. And it is precisely the ministry's success to see how well the ministry or minister or minister is a good and quality manager who in a good way knows how to manage these human resources under him. And there's a problem when we come to a situation where people are unhappy with us at the base, and you're dissatisfied and so dissatisfied people should give some hope to those who need them at that point, and that's extremely difficult. Because if I'm bitter at work first, then I can't give to myself as a social worker or a worker what you should give to someone who's come looking for help, and anyone who knocks on that door from the welfare center knocks with a very big, very serious and long-term very, very hard to solve problem. And it is normal for all these people, all these citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to expect at that moment at that address to get what they need, to get what they came for. And now it's just a question of whether they're going to get it in a nice way or not to get anything, and they're going to have even more indignation in themselves, and we're going to be witnesses from day to day that we're going to get ugly situations in social work centers. And then the saddest thing is that all the employees of the social workers center are characterized as unemployed because of one or two people in that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57462	The government's Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth Milanka Opacic reported again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57463	In fact, the fact is that center workers have been dissatisfied for years but the fact is that this ministry has changed their attitude to them. And all those who are honest will admit it to you. For the first time, one advisory body has been formed in the ministry, which includes 13 directors of the Centre for Social Care, who help us make our decisions that are related to the work of the Centre. An integral part of this advisory body is the president of the Association of Social Workers. It's never been that before. Second. For the past two months, we've been having conversations with people at the Social Services Center not so much as inviting 150 to talk, and then we can have a hard time communicating, but we've been going regionally so that in smaller groups we can really get through everything that's ahead of us. And most of the people in the centers are centers that are people, so no matter what they're having, they've been trying to figure out everything we've been doing and what we're willing to do since next year to help them, to get rid of them. One small part is always unsatisfactory and destructive. It makes us happy less, but it's always in all systems that don't want any change, absolutely no. With last week all the centers were networked and here there were talks about some systems that were different. The OIB system was ready and he was a project in which the good part of the data was being filled and could be immediately started. Social Services, dear Mrs. Tyrelly, you must know that. My first meeting with the World Bank seemed to be so told that they gave me a loan in which the information centers were informed. I said they weren't informed. If the information meant buying computers that were not unpacked at the time, then it's not information. This information was paid to certain houses that should have made it. Do you know what it means to do a job, then make someone do something they've already got paid for and haven't done? That's why it took us so long. And I wish the information had gone much faster and much easier, but it didn't. It is not because the centres did not have links that could support this kind of exchange of information with several institutions not only with the tax system but with eight other institutions. All this takes time and effort. That I don't speak one part of the people in the centre system that should have been further trained to work on computers because they just haven't been trained in information. And now we're struggling, so we have a big team of people walking from center to center and helping every time the situation gets stuck. So, we didn't leave them alone, but we gave them support and we used employees from other, neighbouring centres that go to the centers and where the situation with the information-simple education or the skill to deal with this app gets stuck. The application helps what you said, people bring in a lot of documents, so until they fill out, that's the point of informing people that they don't have to bring in all the documents anymore, that all the data can be obtained through the systems that will be imported. That from next year they will be imported with everything, they will be able to withdraw all the information that certain systems have. And so much will be easier for the citizens, so much will be easier for the employees in the centre. Solutions no longer need to draw up themselves, complement only certain elements of this solution. So the whole system is considerably simplified. Yeah, they're still having a hard time because the pressure on them is high because they're doing a hard job. They do not come from people who are smiling, who have no problems but from people who are poor and who have a lot of problems for which the most common Center for Social Care has no good solutions, no. They can give certain rights, a certain financial compensation, but for most of the problems, the centre simply doesn't have a magic wand that can solve it. Once again in this year, there are many more reforms that will try to help the centres disburse them, and this part of the work we are very honest in talking to them and we have not denied them anything. They know exactly how much work they'll still have to do. But I'm also telling you that most of us have been told that they're ready because it's a stake in a single cash center that should slowly start developing and will start with our cash compensation first because our system is the most burdened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57464	Thank you. Now we'll hear the replicas. First honorary colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57465	I thank the ministers for their address. It is your job as a minister to support the employees of the social work center. As far as loan information was concerned, I had some information about how much money was spent on that information, but what you're saying, I'd like to ask you a question, did you report someone who took that money and didn't do the job? Is there some kind of criminal record that you've made to know that it is. Okay, if there is, then we'll ask about it because then it would be the only right solution that you, as a minister after two years of sitting in that place, say I couldn't do it, and that because someone before me stole, took, embezzled, and I came into a situation where I simply couldn't control it and was unable to get any other means to solve the same problem. You yourself said that the employees of the centre are in a very, very invisible position and that they work with disappointed people, and I now remind you that Croatian defenders will also come to these centres for social care. So that's another weight of the whole story. In the whole story that revolves around Croatian defenders and again we come to contradictions with ourselves where we say that we understand the employees of the Centre for Social Work that we are aware of how burdened they are but simply you have to do it the way we tell you with the paperwork that we have determined, and that you are burdened and eventually something will be resolved. However, we did not protect these people from the indignation of the people who came to them. And we just didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57466	The second line is the esteemed colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57467	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, I'm surprised by listening to you and your colleagues in the government keep talking about informing the OIB. The OIB can at that time function in favour of Croatian citizens and executive authorities of the Republic of Croatia when the Central Register is established in the Tax Administration. It's just, if you want the system to work, you can't let every joke on everyone's data. So, all data goes into the register, the Central Register of the Tax Administration, and according to the exact protocol, these data for certain jobs are done. And until you do, you won't do anything. Why? Because it's an imaginary OIB like that. So the ones who created it, the ones who did it, we imagined it so with a clear intention. What you were saying today, so we're not different here, but simply why did it get lost for three years that the Central Register wasn't established? Without that, you'll do nothing, you'll see, you'll just create chaos. And another thing, the Ministry of Finance has in recent years agreed on a series of loans with institutional banks above all with the World Bank, so long-term loans at a low interest rate for certain reforms. Among other things, the World Bank led a major project on social assistance, social welfare, property censorship and family status. You have complete documentation, you don't have to wander, but everyone then agreed on it from the union and on, but no one dared publicly say that for one reason or another. So there's everything, you have everything that's been paid and what's been done just implement it into the existing law. You don't have to wander, just the one who behaves wastefully and pays the same mistakes three times. And I think simply in Croatia we pay too much for some things, you have all the documents just apply them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57468	This replica is covered by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57469	We don't understand each other about this register again. So I keep saying that the OIB is the central place for data collection. Yeah... Okay, the OIB is an instrument. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now we can do it for the citizens, and now if I speak to the Central Register, here, there's nothing the citizens will understand. So yes, the IRS is so the central place where all the data connects, but many of these data that we have weren't prepared to get in. So, the IRS was ready, but the others weren't ready to give in. Some patterns are still being made. So that some data can be collected so that it can come to the IRS too so that we can drag. Yeah, one central place we'll all be pulling data from. And secondly, Mrs. Tyrelly, there's no money anyone stole. There's only work that's been paid, and it's not done, it's nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57470	The morning part of the debate will end in a way to hear the views of the HNS Club and Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57471	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Opačić with associates, colleagues and colleagues. For centuries, philosophers, theorists, politicians, humanists, managers, and those who don't feel that way have debated justice about solidarity and the achievement of a certain level of social justice in society. According to most theory of justice and solidarity is not a matter of some metaphysical experience of reality, it is not a feeling of some indeterminate compassion for the suffering of so many people on the contrary it is a firm and persistent determination to take up the common good, i.e. For everyone's sake and everyone's sake. Social solidarity is politically achieved when the state is ready to take responsibility for itself by ensuring a better life for all its citizens who have become in a difficult social situation because of some accident, accident or older age. Social policy is the responsibility of the state, not the expression of state mercy. The issue of helping those who are permanently or temporarily unable to participate in their own community is not a matter of mercy, it is a matter of the purpose and purpose of the state. A state that is unable to ensure this type of initial at least approximate equality of its citizens through social policy in our HNS does not deserve to be called state. This Law on Social Welfare proves that our country and our policy take responsibility and that despite the difficult situation in which our country finds ways to distribute resources more justly and ensure that those who have come into a difficult situation such a better life. The main objective of the law is to better direct aid to those who really need it, to make fairer, fairer distribution within the resources available. Better targeted social benefits are the main objectives of this Social Care Act, at least we see it in HNS. I will not enter here why, despite the allocation of significant EU funds to inform the system, there have been no major shifts in the networking of social care systems with other systems through the OIB system, both colleagues Shuker and counterpart Tyreli and the minister, it is important that this process is before its completion and that administrative costs are reduced and workers of unnecessary administrations are relieved. Informing and connecting different systems is an assumption of setting up so-called office all in one place, so called Croatian, which is first mentioned as an idea and goal in 2007 when the then strategy for reform of social benefits was adopted. Informing the social care system with other systems through the OIB system will also facilitate insight into assets and incomes and prevent someone with more real estate and perhaps valuable movements, even vessels or works of art, from using aid which they have no right to do, and unfortunately this has happened. There was a truth in a small number and an unfair accumulation of rights, often through the incoherence of the entire system, insufficient coordination and exchange of information between different parts of the social protection system. This now can indeed be said by an outdated system of data exchanges with various certificates except that it is slow, expensive and complicated is also subject to errors, and people whose primary task is working with users spent most of their time and are still implementing technical administration. This bill changes this and expects the result in the form of a faster and better-quality approach to social benefits, simplifying administration and calculating social benefits, accurate records and control of the exercise of rights. The law provides for and the implementation is actually being introduced by the Institute of Minimum Compensation, the minister described in more detail what the rights are all about. What we think is relevant to the fee, although it has been said several times here, that it cannot be greater than the gross minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia. We think it's a good provision and a good message because we think it's simply not fair that someone who, for any reason at any given time, is not able to provide their work with the satisfaction of their basic life needs has more resources than those who are currently creating and providing these same resources. This also sets out the principle of social justice that requires that the user exercising rights under the social care system cannot achieve a more favourable material position than the person who makes the means of life work work or on the basis of the rights arising from work. A similar clue is the provision that requires that if a work-worthy user is guaranteed a minimum fee refuses the offered job, training, retraining, retraining or arbitrary cancellation of the labour contract, his right to a guaranteed minimum fee is lifted. In fact, this whole intertwined relationship connects rights to accountability. The emphasis is placed on individual responsibility, and with this relationship as I have said and at the beginning of dealing with and dealing with many theorists, humanists and politicians and sociologists, and John Paul II in many of his speeches often repeated that those who have greater influence and have greater good and common services must feel responsible for the weaker and be willing to share with them what they possess. But in the spirit of this same solidarity, those who are the weakest must not, on their part, take a mere passive or destructive attitude in society but should for the good of everyone do what is in their power to defend their legal rights. And the legal rights provided for by this Social Care Act also foresees a certain quality of relations, i.e. the adoption of a standard of quality of social services that describe how quality social services should look. In other words, the quality standard implies a prescribed level that social services must reach whether they are used in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Bjelovar-Biogorska, Primorje-Gorski or Licko-Senj County. And whether social service providers are state institutions, private or non-profit organisations. But the most important indicator of the assessment of services is the way the service provided reflects the life that people, the life of people who receive it. It is good for the law to rely on the principle of individualization of each user, i.e. help is provided in line with the real needs of people. This is nevertheless linked, it is related to a principle which seems to us in the HNS, which is a very important principle of participation in decision-making and accountability. Users of social services, namely this bill, are encouraged to actively influence their own life and decide on most of its aspects. And one aspect is the relationship between parents and children. Although it is understandable in my own mind that I do not now elaborate on the moral aspect of this relationship that children are obliged to respect their parents and help them, many care for their parents leaves the state but not the inheritance. Therefore, the right of the Republic of Croatia to repay amounts paid in the name of the right guaranteed minimum fee and the right to a service of accommodation or residence is prescribed. The payment of those funds shall be ensured by the recording of the demand. It is also prescribed that the Republic of Croatia has the right to repay amounts paid under the recognised right of its successors. However, although the intention of a clear minister may not be quite accurate in the implementation, we suggest that the second reading be made possible with your colleagues and colleagues in the ministry to clarify in more detail the articles of the law concerning the records and reimbursements of amounts paid and damages so that perhaps unequal interpretations or misunderstandings of the implementation of this process do not occur, or do not give God the abuse. All over the past years, the Republic of Croatia and its citizens have made a number of efforts to achieve a certain level of social justice in society and achieve a certain level of solidarity. This proposed Social Care Act continues in this direction, further introduces order into the system and prescribes greater responsibility for the employees of social services and helps those most in need of both representatives and representatives of the HNS Club will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57472	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57473	Here in the previous line I also touched this one exactly what you said. And I think that definitely the law should prescribe the modality in which units of local self-government or state will settle the funds that have invested anyone in giving social care if they have any kind of property. Because this is as prescribed here in this bill it's not definitely listed except in the section that there's a note on that property. We have one part of the law, or how it was for before the 1990s, a large part of such a property where the state or units of local self-government, the municipalities and cities at the time funded or fed especially older residents, that property belonged to the units of local self-government. And it can be purposely determined that such assets can neither be used for other purposes but to meet the needs of those who are socially at risk. In order to enable units of local self-government, this property will be inherited by someone who has been allowed to live with dignity to continue funding for all others who will be needed. So I support you in this part of your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57474	There's no answer to this replica. Then this is the most convenient moment to stop the debate now. We'll continue at 15 hours after the break and by individual debate for 10 minutes. The first will be invited by Domagoj Hajdukovic to present his debate. Thank you very much and welcome. It's the 13th 25th hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57475	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57476	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Reputed deputy ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today in the debate that was conducted by clubs on the Social Care Act heard a lot about how the welfare system is extremely important. I agree, and I think that we have also shown how important it is to us and the fact that social care is no longer just to express myself, the attachment of one ministry is already a ministry that deals primarily with social care, or social policy. I see this law primarily as a law that will change a whole series of lacks in the social care system. In fact, what is the social care system really supposed to be? It is designed to help those who need help, to enable human dignity to those who have no monetary income for one reason or another, for objective subjective and other reasons. However, we have witnessed that this system has been severely abused up to a few years ago. Some abuses probably still exist. And I believe this law will help to minimise them. Namely, an audit was carried out as the minister said. It has been established that many users of social assistance actually have different properties, have assets either financial or real estate, and therefore it is not fair that they are receiving social assistance while, therefore, they are in the same rank as those who do not have it. So, first of all, this law is a shift in the output, so let's call it an intruder from the system by preventing poverty, social exclusion, social disintegration, first and foremost responsible behaviour towards taxpayers' money and the way it is spent. In the existing system, we've had a number of shortcomings in me that have been incorporated into the law itself. First of all, there were multiple social aids. So social contributions on various elements that were in the jurisdiction of different ministries. We also had a complicated administrative procedure for welfare seekers and professionals who had to approve them. We didn't have the incentive to work. Therefore, users of the social care system were not motivated to leave the system at one point and leave. There was a vague definition of property censorship. So, that's what I said. Some had assets, different receipts, and yet they were users of social care, and here it is only for these reasons and there are still evidences that such a system requires changes. Those changes I want to underline in the law are as follows. So, first of all, the fees are united into one unique and I like that the centralization of monetary payments at the Ministry of Social Policy is centralized, while at the same time certain duties that the ministry believes do not fall within the domain mean social donations are transferred to the resolution ministries. First of all, I mean the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports. By centralised itself, by networking, therefore using the OIB not only the Social Care Centres but also the entire system will be more informed about citizens' assets, their incomes and will be able to help accordingly. So, I've discussed this house multiple times just when we were talking about E-Government, about networking. It's something that has absolute support. But we've heard so many times that the OIB system has existed before. But the question is why so far no one really wanted to apply it, whether it was personal interests or not, I wouldn't go into it. I would also particularly point out the abolition of discriminatory provisions towards children with developmental difficulties. So they will be entitled to a full amount of personal disability if they stay more than 4 hours at school. I think that's where we corrected one great injustice against them. The property censorship in this law is clearly defined. So we discussed him a lot. I would not repeat myself here now but I must reiterate that it is unthinkable for people on the burden of taxpayers to stay in nursing homes, in homes for the powerless and at the same time have property in the market of Bana Jelačić real estate and so on. So it's obvious that I can finance my own stay in similar institutions. It's also very important to encourage the system to exit. So, colleague Tyrelli said the same thing about it. The person has been forced in some ways to train and inform himself at the Employment Service. If the offered job is refused, it is immediately deleted from the welfare system, but also if it fails to find a job within two years does not mean that it will be completely deleted from the system. Social services are also improved by different measures already mentioned. I'd rather not go in more detail. And last but not least, what I keep important is a defined question of the public-private partnership model in the welfare system. We have had cases so far where certain entrepreneurs on the oral guarantees of some people entered significant investments, equipped facilities for care of the old, about the powerless to eventually turn out to be no need for them at all. So one, above all, serious approach in public-private partnership in models that can be applied to the welfare system. And in conclusion, what do we get from this law? We get a law that makes it faster, easier to file for help. We have a law that increases our chances that help will come to those who really need it, not those who have other incomes. And we have a law that will develop a greater and more quality range of services in the welfare system. Therefore, I think, for all these reasons, this law deserves our support very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57477	Thank you. Ana Comparić Devcic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57478	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister. Well, you, and a number of colleagues today, mentioned social care audits and what turned out to be, so we had almost 6,500 people I would dare to say that they were cheating on the state and that they were actually taking away those who might have needed more help. But I want to point out here that maybe it's not all or I expect the ministry to be able to deal with some more taxes that might actually require a good revision, and that's where I'm going to mention the child's allowance. Why do I mention a child's allowance? Because we all know who we're working on the ground and who we've met with numerous remarks from people who say my neighbor has a private firm, he's registered to a minimumer. His wife doesn't work, she receives absolutely all the fees, so she receives a child's allowance and she actually has a huge amount of real estate. I want to point out another category of people I've met, these were sailors who worked on foreigners and they were all unemployed, and they were actually rich and they had the right to all the social benefits as if they were the biggest orphans in this country. And that's why my colleague, when you mention it, and all the colleagues who mentioned it, I think that the social giving system should actually go through, all the giving, one good audit. And what I wanted to point out was certainly that... the working capacity of our users. Switzerland has a good model. One who therefore receives social assistance from the state, and is working and not working, must do the work for the common good. So in the unit he lives in, in the city, in the municipality where he lives, he has to check into the center every morning and be assigned to some kind of public service. And it's actually one of the models that would actually help us solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57479	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57480	Thank you very much. Col. Hajdukovic, your debate was focused on two topics. One thing was about discriminatory provisions to be avoided, thank God I agree with you. But you can imagine, you're from Osijek and I from Brod, so when we listen to the news that the Zagreb schoolers got free textbooks from the City of Zagreb, it was in Slavonski Brod and nowhere in Slavonia was the case so far. And with which resignation the parents of these children, the hard - to - live parents listen to such news on the diary as they are delivered, delivered new textbooks, etc. That's one thing. Now is it discrimination or is it the status of the city's ability, etc., but in any case it's inequality. Secondly, you were talking about property censorship and I remember well, taking advantage of the opportunity of my medical surgical part of practice, that is, working in surgery when I operated on my grandmother who breaks her hip and then you can't deliver her to anyone at home, there's no one to take home. You know what the chief nurse told me? Whose grant that and grandma. So, whom the grandmother prescribed the grant goes to, and the grandmother. So this property censorship that you're talking about and you insisted on in your speech has actually been solved by the old Slavonic wisdom for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57481	Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57482	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So that we can agree, according to the capabilities of local self-government units, they can, of course, help their citizens. Now we can debate why some local self-government units help and some don't. I believe they're all helping but according to their capabilities. The fact is that the City of Zagreb has the most resources, so it can give its citizens the most. But that's, well you reminded me, that's another problem same with social giving which just some units of local self-government give more through their programs, some less. And you have a case that is not the same if you are a user of the social care system in Slavonia, Zagreb or Split. So you have a lot of differences, and all of this depends primarily on the units of local self-government about their will. And someone mentioned it, but I would not agree that the leaders of the local self-government unit know very well who needs help. Maybe in some smaller environments, yes, but in a big city like Slavonski Brod, you can't really know all the social cases. And of course we have a lot of wisdom coming from Slavonia but taking care of parents is also a constitutional category. So certainly children must take responsibility for their parents, and it is unacceptable for taxpayers to pay for something their children are obliged to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57483	Comrade Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57484	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is today a country in a major economic, economic and social crisis. Every day we face an increase in unemployment, every day we see more and more people living on the poverty line, who barely survive and young people watching them leave the country and seek a better life elsewhere. I'd compare it to the fire. When the fire hits the tree forest in a few minutes, the whole forest burns down in a few hours. The fire goes out for a few days, and the recovery of the forest lasts for years. Croatia has hit a fire that lasted 8 years, we have put it out for 2 years and unfortunately the recovery will take a long time. And every new leaf that turns green and appears on a tree in the forest brings life back to life and hopes that the forest will come back to life. When a country is in such a situation as our social care system, it is even more important and needs to be arranged in a way that helps those who need it most, and that is what the law is before us and does. This law will try to help and make life easier for people until the country recovers economically and until it is better in Croatia, and it will not be so soon. And it's not this government's fault, it's not the SDP's fault, it's not our coalition partner's fault, it's who's responsible for the situation in which Croatia is today and we need to talk about it all the time. This law will not solve all the problems but it is part of the reforms implemented by this government in order to restore our country and therefore I will give it support. In my debate, I will touch on the parts of this law that I most often encounter in practice and which I think should be mentioned because in practice they were rarely subject to abuse. Certainly, a well guaranteed minimum fee is the maximum amount of 2900 kuna per family, which makes it the most easier and helps single parents and those without children on the verge of poverty. And they will receive in the future the maximum amount of compensation. Control is being introduced into the system of users compensation that has not been the case so often that some are receiving more forms of help illegally, i.e. that we have false users who have used the weakness of the system because there was no control and record, which led to those who really need to remain deprived or not getting as much as they need because they simply don't have enough money for everyone. It is regulated by this law and will no longer be possible to deceive the system. The law also makes it clearer to prescribe income property censorship and increases control, which is also aimed at preventing abuse. It will no longer be possible or it will be difficult for someone who has savings or huge assets to receive social assistance as well as one who has nothing or only has what it needs for a basic life. In particular, it is necessary to welcome the provisions that will encourage or force workers to hire or seek jobs, not once they enter the social care system, and that the state, instead of workers who create new values, produces budget addicts and aids. It should also be commended for a clearer, more transparent and fairer arrangement of the help programme in the house, which is an extremely good programme but is often put into office by the current law, or has become unfortunately in some environments, of course not in all, the voice assurance apparatus. Because of the low and flexible criteria that prescribe who can be users, it often happens that the state, cities and municipalities finance care for those who have large incomes that have children who can take care of them and who can finance it themselves. They will be able to be users of this program in the future, but they will have to pay for it themselves. It was rare that due to low and unclear criteria, the programme was approved and co-financed according to the political key only to those cities in which the political option was similar in power, i.e. 6 years ago, the programme was approved mainly in those environments in which HDZ was in power. We also have a number of examples for this today, and this is especially confirmed by disproportionateities in the number of users in certain environments that are not logical, and the way the programme was used or misused in the function of local elections 2009. And in 2013, I'd rather not speak. The changes introduced by this law will no longer be possible, and the programme will be implemented by clearer, more transparent and more precise criteria. Finally, I would like to point out that the social care system in recent years has often been misused, untransparent and unfair that many issues have not been regulated and often used for the purpose of buying social peace. This law introduces order, transparency and justice in the welfare system and will try to provide assistance to those who need it most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57485	Now we're going to the replicas of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57486	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Djujic somehow seems to me that these green leaves have fallen off and that yellow has fallen off, and there are no buds, and the branches have begun to dry. So it seems, responsiblely, I've been the mayor for more than 12 years, so I can compare all these processes and all those mandates that were. Unfortunately, you said here, I don't know why you went to defend it wasn't necessary, it's not this government's fault. I don't know if it's this government's fault we only know that the situation has never been as bad as it is now. All I know is that in the social part of the day there's an increase in pressure, I know they have problems and welfare centers, I know that the daily pressure on local self-government is irrelevant at this point in time who's blood, we only know who has to run things. So this government has to run a car, she has to run things better that's her job. And you can't talk after two years of a term of office about how it's always someone else's fault, and already twice the leaves were supposed to spill and spill, and the second time from the trees, they're gone. So let's be aware of the situation, let's not politically talk about this, let's say we have a problem, let's try to find problems, and don't believe that the law will solve everything so smoothly. He won't. The law has to be implemented. Is there going to be more like local self-government than any of them now, so I am a daily witness to it and you all know that you are still working on political coats and political colors.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57487	The answer to Sasa Djujic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57488	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrg, why I said it wasn't this government's fault. I didn't say it because he's practically been attacking himself for a year and a half as the main culprit for everyone in the country, and I think it's a duty to remind him every day that it's not exactly like that. Because we know what's happened to us lately, and we don't complain about it, but every day was expected that after a long crisis, and after all these problems, I guess all the leaves should blossom overnight. And I just said in my debate that it would take us a long time to recover all this together. And if you've listened to me well, I've said that this law won't solve all this and that this law can't be solved and that maybe not all the laws we'll be making for the next two years, but that's still progress and an attempt to make something. We are not complaining and this government has been given the mandate of citizens to solve problems and it will work, not run away from responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57489	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57490	Thank you very much. You hit the former government hard as if you were a member of the government, or that you were Minister Opacic, who was the law. But laws actually mean each other's lives. We had a good nanny law and the resources we spent, so you know that only two nannies opened their own private company. Good law and bad exercise, which is worth it to you. Or, on the other hand, you're indoctrination, so here you are talking about the six-year practice of the former government, I'm not even going to mention the name of that party that I'm not interested in, but just to let you know when you said something like that. In Slavonski Brod, in the Centre for Social Care, you hired a forum of young SDPs, all of which you could hire at the Centre for Social Care Slavonski Brod. And what are they doing? They control the old officers, they do nothing else all day. And secondly, when you were talking about the fire that he started before, this is now with 351,000 unemployed, so it's implosion, it's an implosion fire, the worse country, the burning rock. Just in two years, let me say your rule. And for a long, long time after your reign, you will not sing green leaves to the worse whales.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57491	The answer to Sasa Djujic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57492	Thank you, colleague Grubisic, for what we will sing, for who will sing after this term, we will see. Well, that's exactly what I'm saying. No wonder the number of unemployed is getting bigger and bigger every day when we are finally, some reforms have begun, although everyone is saying, there is no reform. Even though everyone's talking, you can laugh all you want now. But we had the same before this government came, the number of people who ran as if they were working and didn't receive a salary greater than 200 grand. There's too many of them today, but there's 70,000 of them. But these people are somewhere on the desk as unemployed. So some statistics change there, too. I wouldn't talk about statistics but I'm saying that this government is trying and I think it's clear who's responsible for the situation in which the country is and we're going to keep talking, whether I'm indoctrination or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57493	The twilight of twilight, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57494	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Djujic, indeed this political one, the day-to-day political debate has been totally missed. You say he's trying and you could be answered in vain by the players. Really, it's a shame you're even trying. You were talking about fires, you don't even know how, you don't know how to put out the fire because you think fire trucks are private taxi carriers. Then you talk about social peace and you are the biggest challengers, not you fellow Djujic, but your government, the biggest challengers of social unrest. You're talking about hiring on a party line. So take a look at yourself in your backyard. Here's what your colleague Grubisic told you, don't say that. Believe me, tell me, here we are, we can't, we don't know, we just came unprepared, we'll burn in desire, but we won't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57495	The answer to Sasa Djujic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57496	Comrade Sumrak, I've known to put out the fire, I've been a member of a voluntary fire company since '94. I've been interrogated by a fireman for years, so I took the fire as an example because I know something about it anyway. I didn't mention any employment by political resemblance in my debate,...... No, no, no, no, no, I mentioned giving a program to users on the political key but I can see that colleague Klaric is going to tell me something because I see that he answered the line when I talked about it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I can put it very well and what was going on with the help program at home, and I'm not talking about employment, I'm talking about other things. And this government knows or doesn't know. This government is trying, but we'll see in two years. I'm just saying you can't expect a result overnight and you can't expect it right now. But I'm also saying, thank you for your knowledge that you've shown for the last eight years, so every day on TV we watch the results of your work and your knowledge and court proceedings and so on. So I wouldn't talk about it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57497	Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57498	Well, you're a little younger than I am, there are older people here, here we're talking about the Social Care Act, what needs to be done and what's good to upgrade, what's up to now, and what all governments have been up to now, and even during the former Yugoslavia, they've been trying to make people's lives worth living, and that's good. We're not talking about the eight years you've been talking about here, we're talking about twenty-two, three years of the existence of the state, of the collapse, of the war, of everything that's been going on. And I have to defuse you in this section when you mentioned the care in the house that they were getting on the political key. I happen to be HDZ, but according to that political key, I was denied my request, so I couldn't win. And it's good that some of the cities in the Primorian-Gorski County that you obviously alluded to, they got. And the ones where the SDP is in power. And it doesn't matter who's in power, it's important to pass a law that will allow our citizens to live a decent man's life, make it possible to open new jobs and those most needed to assign something and yes. Is the grass green or will the leaves turn yellow, these eight years you mention it because it is often mentioned that nothing has been done. You are now on the highway from Rijeka to Zagreb, you are witnessing that a highway pipeline has been built, a river bypass is being built, all done. The crisis doesn't last since yesterday, the crisis lasts for years and struggles with the crisis. But the fact is that you have two years of government, that in those two years, you've already had to run something all the time, and you're doing it now in a law where you don't need to go back to some eight years and blame all those eight years. Well, you've been in power for two years, I guess you should have shown something already. I believe Mr. Boro Grubisic agrees with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57499	The answer to Sasa Djujic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57500	I'm glad when we talk about who's coming back and how we're coming back and what we're discussing, whether it's a topic, it's not a topic when it comes to someone else. All the debates of the HDZ in this House have been spinning in 2003, so counterpart Dujo Marasovic is still far behind where there is no time or place. But it should be mentioned, that, and often you know, your representatives are talking about topics that are not at all on the agenda and they're talking about the general political situation. And it's good and it's okay to talk, it's our job. That's why we have to be here, and it's not only laws that concern certain subjects, but it's also about a bit of a wider area. And as for helping in the house, here's an example, yeah, well you said colleague Klaric, alluding to our county where here, I'm going to tell about my city that the program came. It means that the programme would receive support from the ministry should have over 100 users. Then our city, the number of the size of our city, let's say my city, not to mention here everyone knows which city it is then the local government put on that list all over 65 years old just to meet the formal condition that we could get a contract from the ministry. And then they found themselves on that list, and here I'm going to say an example, of my colleague's mother living with her mother in a house that's a CEO in a strong company, and there's over 30 grand in salary that can pay her mother an assistant who'll take care of her. But they're stuck there, and they're just gonna get a contract, then they're hiring 10-12 people, and yes, it's political employment when the head of that HDZ councilwoman is in my city, and then they're using it, they're going to go around the wards, they're doing their company, they're tearing up their wood, and then local elections come in, and then they're saying, "Don't vote for red campers, they're going to stop your program, and we're not gonna be able to talk to you anymore." That's true, that's what it was and that's what I'm talking about, and that's an example in both Crikvenica and Vrbovska, and I'm going to talk to you about whatever city you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57501	Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57502	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Djujic, you really didn't do any good. Here is a colleague, Klaric, who explained some things to you how much this was done, but as far as this law is concerned, you can tell you 110 thousand are users of this law. The assistant secretary said on the board that some inventory was made that somewhere around 3% of them received total assistance without receiving such help, which means that even under this law, nothing was right because only 3% of them were 110 000 users. You say there's order, that it's just, that it's transparent, that it gives help to those who need it most. So I ask you, is it necessary for families with a large number of children, and according to this law, that the more children you have, the less coefficient you get? If I didn't talk about islands, about property censorship where some older people mostly settle our islands, they have certain amounts of squares in the country, but for agricultural purposes, not for building purposes. Worthless scissors or I don't know if they'll be subject to the fact that they can't get a social or a home right to use a home for the old and powerless. And you gave us a political speech here, not a social talk. You started some fires, and in Dalmatia you'd be told, son, and you were burned in that fire.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57503	Replication response, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57504	Thank you, fellow Jerolimov. You didn't listen to me very well, I didn't say that nothing was right in eight years, neither am I saying it, nor am I always exclusive. Yeah, some things have been done, there's been a lot of things done, but I've been talking about things that aren't good, and I've been paying attention that I still think the situation in the country today is because of what's hit us in the past eight years, but that doesn't mean it's all black. And a colleague of Jerolimov you were just on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports mentioning families with a number of children and I agree with you here on one hand. So bigger families are automatically higher requirements and maybe we should have a little more income, and it's good that the law is in two readings, so maybe until the second reading something changes. We'll see what the possibilities are, but the situation is what it is. But on the other hand, I'll certainly support you say families with more children get maybe a little more than they're supposed to, but on the other hand, I have to mention, so why do we have a family, why do we have children? Well, we don't make kids so they can get benefits and get social help on it, but we do kids for the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57505	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57506	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, you said the system was misused. You've had a chance to hear a few replicas between me and the Deputy Prime Minister today, so you've seen a lot of things we've agreed on, but if it's true that the system is being abused, then it would be a logical thing to get extra money in the budget because you're going to eliminate those who abused it and you're going to reroute those money for something else, or you're going to increase the compensation for some things. The second thing, the OIB system clearly knows why it was introduced and it is known who also introduced it but the question is why the key thing in this OIB, which is the central register in the IRS, has not been established for three years, means one year of HDZ and two years of your authority, so that I don't turn out to be shooting at one thing only. And another thing, the Croatian Government and World Bank project around this property censorship that can't work unless the family situation is established, so it doesn't matter if someone has a small fee and lives in a family where several people work or live with that small fee. That's all that's over. Why someone doesn't want to implement it, I don't know it, but I just know that it's over, that I've still provided credit for this World Bank project, that there's been a broad discussion from the union and beyond about such a way of recording. And what's crucial in the law can't be given social assistance if it has some kind of property, but if we all agree on it then a mechanism needs to be installed in the law, so someone has to make some kind of statement that on behalf of what the state is holding it back, and it has to get such a standard, but it doesn't exist in the law. And so, it's not all black and everything is white, usually life is gray, and you're young and you'll understand that one day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57507	Replication response, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57508	Comrade Shuker, here to be corrected so you don't take this the wrong way. It's not all black or white, it's always gray. I'm young, but I know it by now. When I said that the system is often misused, I said often, I did not say that it was a practice and that it was just constantly so that I made it clear now unequivocally. It wasn't all black or pretty bad, but I said one part of the thing I said, "Don't say it again now." As for the property censorship and the OIB, I agree with you here, and I listened to the debate between you and the minister, and as far as I understand this morning, and the minister agreed with you, so she said it was necessary, that we were working on it, and I'm glad that we agree together on this issue, and we've all failed a little bit, and so does our government for two years, but the work is being prepared. And I think that when the OIB system functions, the control system through which we will then be able to see the property of every citizen of ours, everything that every citizen of ours has, then I believe that we will be able to carry out these laws in quality and efficiency, and I think that I am glad that we agree and I think that we all need to work together to get it done as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57509	We're continuing the debate. My colleague Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57510	Thank you, Vice President. So at the very beginning of this debate on the Social Care Act in the first reading, I would like to say that I will support this law because I think it is good to start introducing order into the social compensation system. And we're all aware that there are a lot of riots and intransparentities. Social benefits should be seen as instruments that meet certain social or social needs of individuals or minority groups or groups rather than privileges. Unfortunately, in some cases social benefits are no longer ways to meet these needs but privileges. I believe that the intensity behind this law is, in that sense, positive and socially responsible. But I fear the implementation of the law in practice, and given the fact that it is not a satisfactory first and basic prerequisite for the quality implementation of any reform, so does this social reform. This precondition is a qualitative reform of the public administration in an efficient service of citizens, as long as officials and officials in ministries, cities, municipalities, social care centres or family centres are not within the short deadlines without discretion under the specified protocols to resolve the issues of citizens, all reforms will not be successful, so neither will this reform. I welcome the Institute of Minimum Compensation, System Information, and the announcement of the merger of monetary payments, i.e. the introduction of a single monetary centre, etc. the offices all place one stop shop because this requires the logic of rational management of the funds of taxpayers used for these purposes, i.e. through the same means to obtain better quality social care or the use of that money than those for those whose money is the most needed and the most needed. I would also like to refer to the objections to the provisions of the law in the section concerning the social care of persons with disabilities that I have received from several associations, including the shadow association, which I believe you have also received during the public consultation. It is a good thing we are discussing this extremely important law on two readings, which allows for the corrections and improvements of the law in certain segments. And if today was the most important thing about abolishing, or connecting family centres with the Social Care Centres, I will refer to the rights of persons with disabilities. In fact, the restriction of the Social Care Act is that it deals with poverty prevention, so the rights of persons with disabilities are only trying to resolve this regulation, which, unfortunately, will not be enough. Otherwise, it turns out that all persons with disabilities must be poor in order to have rights in relation to the needs arising from disability. The problem is that, except through the pension, health insurance and professional rehabilitation system, the state has little to do with the quality of life of people with disabilities and shifts everything to the level of combating poverty, which is completely wrong and needs to be done in the long term. But given the whole context and the economic situation, it seems to me that the state has done everything it can right now. It is true that compensations to help people with disabilities in society should be independent of property censorship, in order to achieve equalisation of persons with disabilities and other citizens, which is in fact an intensities of social care but it is impossible through regulations that are being achieved through now partially combating poverty. In itself, disability should not be a basis for gaining rights but rather for the needs arising from disability, but rather for the quality of social life, and this should not only be addressed by monetary fees in the social care system but also by the development of the overall social policy. And here I would like to commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Kukuriku Coalition, when it is visionary, I would like to declare this a ministry dealing with these issues, that is to say, as Ministry of Social Policy and not Social Care, so I hope that in its future action, it will be more emphasis not only on issues of social care, but on the overall social policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57511	Thank you very much, colleague. Comrade Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57512	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So to be honest, I expected a little more lively discussion about this law given the state of society and the situation that is present and the desire to settle a little things with this law, to really introduce order into the system, to simply get real help to those who need it and to take care of all the structures of society that, unfortunately, every day really has more and more. And it is to welcome the initiative of passing such a law to try to introduce order into this imbalance and wastefulness in part of social care in Croatia, because definitely often money comes where it really doesn't belong and where it needs to be gone. There are those in Croatia who are very well aware of the systems and know how to use them, know how to do it, don't have too much pride, there are also those who have a lot of pride, shame to go ask them something, shame to exercise their rights and they are actually the group that needs help. I hope that by passing the law in that part of the second reading, a certain step will be made and that it will go in that direction. The biggest problem for me is the division of the system to state and local levels. In fact, definitely social care centres and this system at the state level as a set-up system works on one model, local self-government on the other, and then at the local level you have to collect data in five places to get to one final data. So let's say, probably that's what colleagues and colleagues who are in local self-government have the same cases, we might, when we want to share this social assistance for Christmas, say some gift, then we have to collect data from Caritas, from the Retired Association, from the Association of Persons with Disabilities, the Cities of the Red Cross, the Centre for Social Care, the Department for Social and Social Activities, and then we get one overall picture. It's just one example of practice that says how dysfunctional the system is and how it doesn't actually cover that space that should be covered. I hope that in this law, and this is my proposal to definitely legally foresee a stronger connection means the bodies implementing the state policy on social care and the bodies of local self-government. There was a talk here about a geronto program. He revived in many units of local self-government, but he basically goes from year to year, year to year and never knows what will be further, whether there will be funds or not, he is differently set from those beginnings and then on. I think we need to get rid of him systematically. With all the diseases that this program has, it is essential. He has a lot of diseases because he really has what's already out of the debate here you could see, there really are users and users who don't belong in that category, you shouldn't get. But that's also one problem, in one part of these programs also local self-government and does not have much influence on the choice of users, there are other programs. Again, we are talking about the government being a messier in the system and that it needs to be put on a bunch but the geronto program as a geronto program absolutely is, especially in that part of what the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister said would be able to charge for what was the problem so far. So it's gonna come in handy anyway. What I would like to give here today as a proposal and draw particular attention to is actually solving the problem of older and powerless people. So, Croatia is unfortunately a relatively old nation, we are faced with the problems of taking care of old and powerless people, we know that there is no means to build homes for older and powerless, we know that it is very difficult to find funding for them, and I think that this proposal mentioned in this law, which is a model of public-private partnership, will not be able to solve this issue because local self-government will in fact be disabled to co-finance this programme, and I am afraid that neither the state has the strength and capacity to enter a broad programme of building homes for older and powerless according to the public-private partnership model. And that is why I propose that another model be installed in the law to solve the building of homes for older and powerless with co-financing whether states, whether the county, whether local self-government users of the programme and by the model of building rights. So I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about experience, I'm talking about a concrete example. In my city, a home is built according to this model where a private investor is therefore financing complete construction. It will organize home operations, the city has given land and infrastructure, and the city will subsidize its users in that home in that ratio that the regulation will determine who will have their own income, the difference will be financed by local self-government. I think it is one of the models that would not burden the state budget, nor the budgets of local self-government that could ultimately start an economic cycle in Croatia because, let's say, one home of 100 users employs 30 people and care means 100 users. If only such a single project was launched in Croatia at 50 locations, 1500 people would be employed, a billion kuna investment cycle would be launched and 5,000 old and powerless people would be taken care of. I think it'd be nice to discuss it a little bit. Here I will deliver this example to the ministry from the town of Križevci that we have made, so if there is any will and desire to install something like that, I think it can still be done safely and upgraded and that it can be useful for the overall system that we can simply solve that issue much better. What I would like to say in the end, there have already been speeches here about people with disabilities, in Koprivnica a round table was held on Thursday on this subject, on the subject of this Social Care Act and there have been a lot of criticism from the associations of persons with disabilities on this law. Thus, we should never allow ourselves to reduce the rights of persons with disabilities and their families. I don't think it's going to go to any of us to say that to some praise, I think that together we can all support such a thing that these benefits are, if they are at all, the benefits of people with disabilities are not diminishing, but that they are absolutely being held back, or that they are still getting better and stronger. And what I'd like to say here is, I'm not sure if this minimum fee of 2900 kuna will be fair and just. Whoever needs to get it is a little bit, but whoever goes to do what was said here for 2,000 kuna, be careful people get and 2,000 kunas not 2900 and all month long have to go to work, I don't know if it's gonna be stimulating in this situation when it's this big unemployment that we get such a fee without a commitment if what's also being said here in the debates is that those who get such a minimum fee have to pay back to their working obligation then that would be justified. But as long as the salaries of people working 3 thousand kunas are today a normal salary in Croatia let's be realistic and in court such wages in public services are such wages, let alone in some sector of manufacturing I'm not sure that we hit and that it will be good to be stimulating. So I think a little further discussion should be made about those who get it if they are working able to really have, as has already been said by their colleagues here to do that part of the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57513	It's a replica of Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57514	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My dear colleague here, you challenged me a little when you said that the users could manage as well as they knew each other. I won't say without those real helpers coming. I wouldn't say that because it might have happened if someone was very, very skilled but certainly not often and not repeated. But now I found one information actually my colleague gave me that since 2009 the OIB has actually been the OIB Act I know that JMBBG has moved away and has entered into force of the OIB whether the law is irrelevant. But since 2009, what has now happened, or what this law has predicted, and there would be no longer, let's say, since 2010, there would certainly be no possibility of someone being skilled, so they could manage because by networking the system through the OIB, they knew all of what this new law would know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57515	The answer to Branko Hrg's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57516	Unfortunately, I'm right. You're probably right, too, but the fact is that people have found and found various ways and methods to get some money from the state or local system. And that's right. Do they report that they live separately, whether they live together, whether they even break up there, it's all true. I'm sure this law will probably and the implementation of the OIB and that part of the entire household and family and, in the end, probably solve it, but that there is this, that there is this in all segments, that I have the evidence daily, that I've been following them for 15 years in my small town, in the end of the day, so that's probably the situation, and I hope that this will start slowly in some normal frames with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57517	Boris Kovac's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57518	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Representative when you were talking about this law and you touched the question of people with disabilities. Here we read practically the same text and interpret it in different ways. You mentioned that their rights were reduced, I would disagree with you. I don't even think they've been increased, but on the other hand, reading the text of the law itself, and even explanations if you want to, I think there's a little bit of that possibility going around. And what seems particularly important to me, which is to protect the dignity of people with disabilities. This seems very important to me although I know someone will always say the most important job and social protection, but I also highlight the dignity and emphasis on a special person with disabilities. I found it and I read it like this in this text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57519	The answer to Branko Hrg's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57520	I said it shouldn't be allowed for people with disabilities to be reduced to rights. And I said that in the town of Koprivnica there was a round table where the representative of the Association of Persons with Disabilities spoke very specifically about certain reductions, so I just repeated her words. And now I have to say one more thing like this like a little cream on this all together. Afterwards, the lady concerned that I did not speak to her now experienced her being called Deputy Mayors and Maltens by her name as she spoke against the law. I won't talk about any political options or anything else, but these are facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57521	Boris Kovacic, go ahead and discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57522	Here's another thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam deputy with associates, Ms. MPs and counsellors. So when we talk in general about the justice and justice and the justice of them never enough, and in particular it seems to me that social justice as one of the greatest values of our constitutional order is, please, nice and written in Article 3 of our Constitution, never too much. And on that side here, it is very good to discuss today, and I ask it nicely in the first reading of the Social Care Act that I see and as one of the laws of the reform package. And that's when we talk about justice and justice in general, it seems very good to me. That's why I and my debate will only touch two aspects, two minor problems related to the proposed text of the law right on the trail of this little introduction of mine. And that's when we talked and when the law says it, and today there's been a lot of debate about the information system or networking. Well, we're sure it's a tool that will make it possible for a more transparent development of the entire system and certainly prevent many irregularities and this has been very much said and justified. However, I am also reading this law in a way that now puts even greater emphasis on employees of the social care centre and all professional workers, they have so far had a great responsibility, but it seems to me that they now have an even greater emphasis and even greater responsibility. And that makes it seem like three things, three points of particular importance. It's part of the law that we're talking about. First of all, the most important thing is the expertise and education, and the text of the law also shows the need for lifelong education, or for the training of these professionals of the centre or of all employees. And that's what the first point is and what we all have to insist on together. But I think there are two other important things in particular. One thing's good knowledge of the terrain, guidance. I'm not so sure that all center employees are present. Because I'm going to bite a little sour apple now, too, because I'm also a witness, so especially 4, 5 or 6 years ago, there really was a job of people in centres in obvious party colors where these criteria and they weren't respected. I also come from local self-government, I've been at the head of this local self-government for a long time, so here's a lot of things I know from practice, unfortunately. And the third thing that seems to me, maybe it's not even enough in the text of the law, and I don't know if it's possible, and that's the co-operation of the local self-government center and the local self-government units, of course regional but special unit of local self-government. That's what I think if these three conditions were met, means expertise, guidance, what goes with expertise, but guidance and knowledge of the terrain. Of course, many problems in themselves would not be solved, but something easier to resolve and co-operate with local self-government units. This is crucial for the functioning of this part of the social care system. And further, when we're still talking about this inequality, when we're talking about this, this is a good thing that this eliminated fee, so it's now 2900 kuna there was this abuse and what's also important to say, it's not a total limit, it's a limit that goes through the Ministry's funds. And so what we've talked about today is also through the units of local self-government and these programs are over 50 if so, I don't know if they're even taxed, and now we're also coming to those differences because it depends on the will, decisions of local self-government units, representative bodies, whether it's more social, whether it's for associations, whether it's for the fire department, whether it's for the sport, whether it's for the culture, whether it's all necessary and what we come to their natural fiscal power, or what their budgets are. And let's forget to say, some units have a maximum cut, someone didn't introduce him at all, someone has half. No matter what the means are. But we know that then they can or other means are being released for social purposes. Now that we're talking about it, and there's never going to be, there's never going to be any end to expressing social justice, there's always going to be a difference. And that's why these provisions are good in the law they're saying, and I'm particularly concerned about these kids. They're all important, they're all important, but it seems to me that children are the most sensitive and sensitive, and I'm particularly concerned about them. And here's the good thing about having a hot meal. It is good that I am expected to see Article 51 concerning textbooks and the Ministry of Education, etc.. Well, staying still isn't enough yet. When I take and I have a picture of a preschool kid, a kid in elementary school and until high school, not to mention college, that's not enough. It's not enough just a warm meal, it's not enough textbook, it's not enough without it, but if he has nothing to come to school and today it's a situation, you know what's going on right now because I have a grandson, when I'm standing in front of a window, and then I'm thinking about what our parents' frustrations are, grandparents and children's frustrations are, because they already know about fashion there in the 4.5th grade of elementary school more than I do now which are frustrations when he can't have shoes and these, T-shirts here and there, I don't even know what brandings are in fashion because the whole class has, no matter what the class may have two, three. Now, I'm surprised, I've had a festival of years, but I'm surprised that as a society back in the last few decades, we haven't been able to figure out a model that would go on track here's a solution to that problem. I'm not into introducing I don't know, English model dress code and so on, because even the price of that dress there in England is different, I checked it out because I was interested in that. And I'm not really, why would I give me their tradition, I don't know. I'm not about to go back to the corners like I was in my high school, and don't put it in my mouth, not to go back there, but I am here for help, because I'm still worried about this diversity, and I can think about what it means to the psyche, to the development, to the overall development of the child, and through the child if you want it to work on the stability and anything else of our families, parents, and more than that. Well, maybe we can find some good suggestions for another reading. And I'd really be grateful, not to say I'm appealing not only to the ministry, but generally here and to the professional public, so here's to colleagues and colleagues here, let's work on this one, it seems to me that we still need that, too. Of course I support this law because first of all I see huge progress through systemic solutions exactly as it was announced a year ago that we will get on the benches of the Social Care Bill that will systematically try to solve social care in general. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57523	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57524	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Kovacic, you've actually said the things that have been said, which are being warned, so really knowledge of the terrain and cooperation with local self-government are necessary preconditions in order to do the job as best possible. But I must say, you were talking about hiring by similarity. It's not missing, you know, it's still present. This article of the law on granting consent to the appointment or selection of the director of the social care centre by the minister is very well used. I have this example, I even asked a question as a representative, but I didn't get an answer to such questions. So I got the answer that there were irregularities in the work, then I went to check at my welfare center when it was surveillance, then it turned out that surveillance was there three years ago, that it wasn't at all. So it's present, but I absolutely support it to curb this way of any political similarity employment because that's what it was, and I hope that's going to be less and less in future times.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57525	Replication response, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57526	Well, we've already talked about similar things here in the Parliament. Nepotism, corruption doesn't go away overnight, and unfortunately there are times to come, and I won't answer that even a minor phenomenon, and I dare say it's certainly less phenomena than it was before, whether it leads to a solution. I'm staying on this one that we really all need here, it's not funny, but here's Mr. Horg laughing, so he caused me the same reaction. It's not funny because it's too serious and I believe that all of us are here together and we talked about it when we passed some other laws, there's still a lot of work to do and a lot of fighting to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57527	Danesh Shaw, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57528	Thank you very much. Just what a colleague just asked a question, I also listened very carefully to you and you said knowledge of the terrain and cooperation with local self-government. I have twice read this chapter of jurisdiction, the process of recognising the right to social care. I think here's a place and here it should have been, like it used to be, that means 20 or 30 years ago, that we who have this lot of experience, then needed the opinion of local committees, and now I think it would be good to ask for the opinion of local self-government before deciding on the right to social aid. I think that this co-operation would be better then because, according to that paper theory, everything is suffering, and therefore not always the exact data presented by the Social Care Centre, and such a single document would certainly be welcome in deciding, not to decide local self-government. However, on the other hand, the competences and competences of the centre in solving social problems and local self-government or municipalities should be defined a little more precisely. Very often, social workers and employees in the center send the unfortunate, people with very big problems let them solve the municipalities and then they are in the municipal halls, they wait for 5-6 half a day, they are bored because his municipality is the first step to which he has to address, and in fact the center is an institution that is invented to solve these problems. That distinction should be more precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57529	Thank you very much. Replication response, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57530	Thanks again. Well, I'm glad that you accepted this part and that we agree that there is a need for greater cooperation and a centre and, of course, a unit of local self-government and a representative part and that executive part. I mean it. I'm afraid if I didn't share your opinion on this consent, it would lead us to some kind of clean administration, and I'm not sure it would be economical or good. I dare say that. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First of all, when I talked about the co-operation of the centre and the units of local self-government, I had previously thought about harmonising programs, observations, agreements if you would like, so why not talk about specific things, but I had in mind, first of all, harmonising the program because we just said here and we don't know exactly how many total units of local self-government there are different programs. We know that for the needs of social care, it's allotted from the budget of all units of local self-government if I'm not mistaken for over a billion and a half kuna, and that's big money, that's where we agree. And if there's no additional cooperation or coordination then we come to these even bigger differences that we're talking about, from unit to unit of local self-government and even by some other parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57531	Comrade Tomislav Ivić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57532	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected deputy minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'd like to say a few words about the Social Services Act. I think first of all, it's a good thing that the law isn't in emergency procedure, that it's in two readings and that there's a chance to get through this debate today and even when it's second reading it's further fixed and improved. I thought I'd talk a lot about abolishing family centres but I don't want to repeat myself since I agree with all those arguments made by my colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ Club. And I think the explanation offered, that the abolition of family centres will achieve savings simply isn't true. How savings will be achieved if the family centres remain in the same space, if family centre employees are taken over by the Social Care Centres. So there's no talking about abolishing like there's no argument that the centers for, the family centers didn't develop because of the lack of funds. It just can't and shouldn't be an argument. I must remind myself that family centres were founded in 2011 when the situation was not better than it is now but we found spaces and opportunities to provide funds for the establishment of family centers. I'd like to say a little more about one law that applies to Croatian defenders. It is a provision that is practically abolished under the proposal of this law. That's not good, because the supply wasn't even imagined as a classic social aid measure. However, the right to supply under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences is reserved by users of personal disability, family disability and Croatian defenders who have been unable to attract. In 2012 we saw this in the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, the supply was used by 5536 Croatian defenders for which 72 million kuna was allocated from the budget. This way of helping Croatian defenders practically exist for almost 20 years. He was well and now he is well set up with clear rules and quite well-developed criteria who can achieve from Croatian defenders the right to supply and who can't. To that end, the applicant had to pass the assessment of the medical committees, the two-stage medical committees with the Ministry of Defence in order to determine the potential capacity or inability to attract. By abolishing the supply, the entire procedure is being moved to the Centre for Social Care. The key question is, are the Social Care Centres prepared for this at all? Whether these 5500 requests will be resolved within the appropriate time limit. Because at the moment of entry into force of the law practically ceases to apply all supply solutions and those Croatian defenders who were users of the supply will be without income. It is a very dangerous and possible bomb when it comes to psycho-traumatised Croatian defenders. And remember all the cases we've been through in the past when the Croatian defender didn't exercise some rights and stuff, especially now that his rights are lifted. We don't have accurate data on the structure of users of supplies, but I am convinced that in most cases it's about singles, so individuals will actually be given less than they get now. The supply is now 1097 kuna. And is there at all an estimate of how many users will be left without the right to a guaranteed minimum fee for those who have now received the supply. I think a significant part of Croatian defenders will be left without the right to a guaranteed minimum fee. And a few, therefore, generally looking, I think that the supply should be left where it belongs in the Ministry of Croatian Defence and should respect the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. And I would say a few words, because there were often two programs in the debate here today – the help program in the house and the living room and help in the house as programs that date back several years. And there it should be noted that these programs were not primarily or primarily directed at socially endangered persons. In fact, they were directed towards third-year people who were most often not even users of social assistance but who had their own neat incomes, pensions, etc. But they needed help so that they could function normally and that society was always simpler and more useful in this way to help these people to live their old age in their homes than to care for them more expensively in nursing homes or not to know what homes. So it's not a classic social program. However, it is primarily aimed at people who have their own incomes but who need the help of the social community in order to function. So here's what this would do, and it would end the debate with another reference to the supply that concerns Croatian defenders, that if such a proposal remains as it is now in this bill that it is not good, that it will hit several thousand Croatian defenders and that the ministry will have serious problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57533	It's a replica of Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57534	Thank you very much. Here's the esteemed representative I would have made what you said about Croatian defenders really can't even have an estimate. I hope that the competent ministry has assessed it well and will do everything within the time limit because otherwise it would not have entered into this bill if you were right. I wouldn't want you to be right, but I can't even replicate it to you. But I'd like to rephrase to you the second thing you said about the geronto, it's about the geronto housewife, right? So it's no problem to help people of older age and I agree with you that it's a much cheaper form than accommodation, but the problem has been in control and in concrete ignorance of who helps and how it helps. These were the problems during that period, there was really no surveillance, no records, no access to the competent social care center, it went directly to the mayors, mayors, etc. I have often received no further information in cooperation than this. So it was about monitoring that measure or that right or I don't know the service it was not about the way. A way to, but not without supervision and without any control. This is now very well regulated by this law. That part of the geronto housewife.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57535	Replication response, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57536	Thank you very much. ... Excuse me. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Dear colleagues, I hope that the evaluations exist to be heard today and in the opening explanation of the Vice-President and Minister but we have not heard any assessment of how much the funds will be spent less or more when the supply of less or more Croatian defenders will be abolished. I wish we'd heard those assessments. I personally believe that it would be much simpler and better when we talk about these two programs, about the program in the house and the living room so that it would be much better if it were regulated by a special law than this. Because the problem of supervision is not the problem of users, but it is the problem of those who organised the program and how it will be controlled in the most appropriate way. And what I should say anyway, and I failed to say when I was talking about this law is the fact and the fact that this programme when it started to be implemented was not part of the Ministry of Social Policy, i.e. health and social policy, but was within the framework of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity because it was not even imagined as a classical social programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57537	And a final five minutes on behalf of the HSU club colleague Vishny Fortun.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57538	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sure I'll be shorter than five minutes, and actually I'd just like to repeat maybe what's safe and said here, and I probably said that it's actually good that we have two readings of this law. I think today has passed all day in good faith and here in the faith that everything that can be corrected by what the MPs and MPs have delivered. I might just point out here again if I were to support this institute of guaranteed minimum fees. This is with the faith that I have said and now that it was certainly not the competent ministry that went in such a way that it did not check, that it did not make an analysis and that it is not certain that when this solution ceases that a new solution will be made at the same time. So that's how we actually support this institute. I would also repeat very important that it is important that the OIB in which system information is now made, in which way it will be possible by networking all institutions at the same time for each person to know exactly whether or not it meets the conditions in relation to both property censorship and property, and I am sure that it will no longer happen, but that it is such a small space for happening that someone achieves the right, and that I can say something like that, or that I don't know which nicer expression I said. Therefore, it is very, very important, and this further means that all those who have received so far and should not receive it anymore will not be able to, and that all those who have not received have a lot on the ground and cases I know them, and surely you know them, who simply sit down there somewhere, squatting and dared neither report nor come. That's why I call here our associations, our very active NGO sector, which very often informs us and tips us and our Retired Matica and the Retired Union and other associations that wherever they see or know a neighbor, a family, etc. to inform the competent Social Care Centre if it has such a person or family somewhere to report so that they can also exercise the rights they have. Here I would just say one more time I know that decentralisation of the system at this point is certainly not possible, but very often, here's a distinguished colleague, and now he has said much better co-operation between state and local administrations and self-government. Yes, without this joint cooperation of good and quality, it is very difficult, not that it is difficult, better quality and will be an even better system of social care. In that part I see not today, but tomorrow, let's think about, for a start like homes, social care institutions have come down to also the Social Care Centre as soon as possible to get down to the local level. Why? Because it is also in this institution that guaranteed minimum social care fees can definitely not be executed by all these powers. And there's the goal and jurisdiction of that stop shop going to the local level. And that's why it's also important to have it at local level, but I'm saying if that decentralisation were, even though the Social Care Centre would be much better, better quality and simpler. That's my opinion, and I think that opinion is shared by HSU. And as for the elderly, yes, they need all the attention and all the help they need, but also social care institutions, that, however, the development outside the institution is very important, the services, the geronto of the housewife and the geronto services that we now have in this law, and I hope that local administrations and self-government will make good use of. Zagreb is doing very well already, we have 10 genotological centres, daily centres, etc. And with this law, we'll get more opportunities and a new wind in the back. And that is why the Croatian party supports this law with the hope that one day there will be decentralisation in the future and that this part that is provided for by law that the competent ministry will also enforce the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57539	Thank you. And the final word of Deputy Minister Maya Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57540	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored MPs and MPs. There have been many discussions in individual debates that I believe should be further clarified. The first thing I have to explain is that clearly and loudly I say that there is no reduction in the right or amount of compensation that people with disabilities receive, even though this law is an extended circle of children who can receive a personal disability, and part of the day they stay in an institution. Therefore, there is no saying that any right of persons with disabilities to this law will be reduced. The next thing that also applies to persons with disabilities, we have not given up on specific regulations that will regulate an inclusive supplement simply in cooperation with associations of disabled persons, we need to determine to what level to go and do more of these projections. As for the revision of the fee and whether we did what we did, our revision of the fee wasn't really the goal of burning all that money and going further into the compensation pool. Here's to those 6.5 thousand people who detected the error in the system whether it was a fraud could have put about 40 million kunas on the side, but that money went further for compensation because we have to count on a certain new number of users entering the system. So it wasn't planned to be saved on the social side. I also need to explain the recording system here. Someone mentioned the olive groves we talked about and on boards, the recording system would go simply to all the property, it could be put into operation or not. What is so about these olive groves on the islands or on the property where the user lives. What's new to this law is that in the case of inheritance once the restraint bonds had an obligation to return to the system as long as the note existed, means to repay the funds that the state paid through social benefits, now all heirs and not just those who are the holders. Which means if I didn't support my aunt and one day I inherited the property from her, the state would simply record on that part of the property and I, when I sell it to the state, have to calm down what was invested. The next thing is families with more children and limits guaranteed minimum fees to 2,900 kuna. What we are witnessing is very likely that so far in our system, individual households have received far greater amounts by way of compensation, far greater than that of income by work. For this reason, even the minimum wage in many cases is reduced. As far as the nanny is concerned, I still have the need to point out, the inspection that follows it will probably work in perspective but I remember when we first read, namely I am sensitive to this law, my former administration worked directly on that when we had prescribed in our first reading the obligation to local self-government units that if they do not have regulated preschool care for children, they are obliged to co-finance the nanny's activity. I remember that here the sky and the country are gorillas in this hall, and that's why we're here because we can't prescribe one of the local self-government units that refers to preschool care, and that's why we changed it in the second reading, and we've no longer made a commitment to the local self-government unit, but only as a possibility. What I have to say is that local self-government units haven't really shown any interest in most of it. Someone also mentioned a child's allowance as one of the abused rights in our system. Yes, research shows that the right is abused and that many private individuals apply to a minimumer in order to obtain a child’s allowance. However, what is a problem is that there is no property censorship on children's extras, so that no one's property can be taken into account when determining the right to a child's allowance. What I want to say, or what I want to announce, is that we are currently doing some projections and analysis to see what level we could cover that property censorship would be, and we are preparing certain preparations. Preparations have been set for amendments to the law on child allowance. As regards mutual cooperation between local self-government units with a social care system to avoid overlapping and cumulating fees by networking our social care system with local self-government units, which is certainly planned in the future, these problems will be avoided because at that moment, it will become clear who is the summator of certain funds from the state budget and from the funds of local self-government units. As for the transformation of family centres and savings, it wasn't a plan in savings. We had no intention of saving our lives by transforming the family centers. The merger of family centers and the common synergy of what family centres do today and what social care centres do is something that the profession has greatly welcomed because family centers, these spaces, and people working in family centers will be valuable to social care centres. Because of the mediation in traumatic divorces, because of the possibility of meeting and hanging out with children and what the profession from the center for social care particularly welcomes, and this is a counseling facility that once existed and today no longer exists. And as for the supply, the supply is not abolished, it enters the ULN, i.e. the guaranteed minimum fee, there will be no one left without supplies, so there will be no gaps, some of them amongst the areas where people will be left unsupervised. Simply until the final transfer to the guaranteed minimum fee will have a supply and then a transfer to the ULN. What I would certainly like to highlight in this case is a project of the ULN, i.e. guaranteed minimum fees, is a project of the Government. The Ministry of Social Policy is an expert holder, we have done this in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and they have in any case had in mind and have projections of what is the number of Croatian defenders who may lose the right to guaranteed minimum compensation. But what I'm saying is that the only criterion that we've ever managed when creating a guaranteed minimum fee was the social criterion. So the only way we managed was not by any other status of those persons, for us the poor person in that case was simply a poor person, not a poor defender, but simply a person who did not have the means to cover the basic needs of life. I'm also going to repeat what the vice president and minister said this morning, said the lawyer who enjoyed the supplies and I have children in the ULN system will make a bigger amount. Here I think it was in the shortest lines what I thought was necessary to clarify. Also, the purpose of this law is not just to introduce something that can be called additional order and transparency. This law also represents a reform move, a reform step towards some positive changes and more effective management of financial resources and of course services in the social care system. And so I invite you all to support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57541	Replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57542	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, on several occasions you said that your intention was not to save, that the social situation was not planned to save, I would say that a better redistribution of the funds is already more just already some kind of savings. But what was the fact that it was also intended to save was not possible to implement it. So this statement of yours is correct. In view of the overall situation in society, it would be foolish to expect that in the social care sector some savings can now be implemented. It's going to take even more money because it's getting harder and harder every day, more and more of those who need help. You said the local self-government units didn't show any special interest in the nanny project. Well, that's what we pointed out in the debate when that law was discussed here. And then we are some who in the local self-government units have said that it is a law that is very questionable and that is likely to be difficult to implement. Since the people who planned to open it said it was impossible and would not get into it. So I'd say the nanny project didn't come to life, that it's obvious that the law didn't come to life and that he didn't start to implement himself. This is the fact that it is now the wrong units of local self-government that have shown no interest or the wrong story has been set since the very beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57543	Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57544	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, unfortunately I haven't heard a single assessment from you. You are the legislator of the law not the Ministry of Croatian Defence and you should have all the information. You're saying there's data in the D.A.'s office. Then you should have been familiar with that data. You're saying that defenders with more kids will get more. That's probably what it is. But I assure you that out of these 5 thousand 536 users supply the vast majority are single and they will get less under this law than under the law on the rights of Croatian defenders. What is the monthly guarantee of the fee? 800 kuna and now they get 1097 kuna, for me it's still 1097 kuna much more than 800 kuna. And what you should also say. There's going to be a deadlock, or a vacuum. Because by taking effect, all the solutions issued by the Ministry of Defence will cease to apply. And it's going to have to be conducted at the welfare centres of the procedure so that someone can regain their right to, what it can lead to, you'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57545	And Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57546	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to speak and challenge with a replica, but when a lady assistant or deputy minister touched the supply, then I know many bitter fates of those who receive, they are mostly what Ivić said to the singles, the supply. In order to collect the evidence necessary for someone to receive 1097 kuna supplies, he must walk for 2 months in all possible offices in the county and municipality and everywhere to collect evidence. If he's from the village, ha, ha, he's on supplies, so if that's how it's prescribed the conditions for depravity that there's nothing, that there's no bike, that there's nothing, that his children have nothing, that there's no one there, and that there's no house or house, then really that man can hardly collect and when he gets it together and gives it to New Year's Eve now to hand over, so until 31.12. supply request, then only in the 5th or 6th month does the commission consider and assigns it. And what he's been living on for five months, I don't know. That's how it's been so far, and now by what you're proposing, it's true, six months they've been waiting for those thousands of kunas or backlogs in five months, but five months have nothing to eat. That's right, that's for sure, I have reliable data that's true. And now you're going to cut them from 1097 to 800. That really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57547	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57548	Proposal for a social care law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 510. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. A proposal for a social care law is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please state who's behind this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour and 20 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57549	We will now move on - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of the structural instruments of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 504 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds, and you received reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Funds Mr. Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57550	Honorable vice presidents, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of the structural instruments of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia entered into force on 21 July 2012. This law regulates, above all, the institutional framework for the use of the European Union structural instruments and aims to implement operational programmes effectively for the 2007-2013 programming period. This law lays down the functions and responsibilities of bodies which constitute a system of management of the use of structural instruments. In accordance with the provisions of the laws and regulations, the Agency for the Audit of the System of Implementation of the European Union Programme as an audit body shall be tasked to examine and confirm, inter alia, the compliance of the system and to make recommendations for its improvement, with a view to ensuring the dedicated use of the Structural Instruments. In September and October 2013, by delivering a final report from the ARPA’s shortened name on the assessment of the compliance of the implementation system for each of the four programme operational programmes for this programming period 2007-2013 and by sending accreditation packages to the European Commission, the national part of the system’s conformity assessment process was completed. During 2012 and 2013, more than 30 meetings of an inter-resor working group for the implementation of preparatory activities related to the assessment of the compliance of the system with the relevant European Union regulations were organised, and that group was composed of all representatives of the body in the system. The Interresor Working Group has developed standardised procedures for the use of funds and structural instruments which, in the form of a regulation on the behaviour of the body in the system, have created so-called “system”. The national legal framework and for their amendments and additions, it is necessary to follow a prescribed procedure which is generally long-term. Since significant sources of funding have been available to the Republic of Croatia since the entry into the European Union, an adequate legislative framework and a basic prerequisite for optimal use of allocations allocated. To that end, and in accordance with the recommendations and findings of the Agency for the Audit of Systems resulting from the national part of the system's conformity assessment process and respecting the previous experience in the implementation of the European Union programmes and projects, the amendments and additions to the laws ahead of you are proposed. The key amendment concerns the rules on the conduct of the body in the system provided for in Article 6(2) of point 10 and Article 8(3) thereof. The law. The same law, within the functions of the coordinating body, prescribed the adoption of a regulation on the conduct of a body in the system, relating to the requirements and procedures for the establishment and improvement of the system in the following segments: strategic planning and programming, preparation and implementation of projects, selection of projects and the approval of aid resources, forecasting and monitoring, evaluation and closure of operational programmes, audits, information and visibility, use of technical assistance, and the functions of the certification body, the adoption of a regulation on the conduct of a body in a system related to the requirements of the procedures for the acceptance of the costs of the audit trail and the verification of projects in terms of the execution of contractual obligations and the recovery of funds due to irregularities. The basic amendment mentions that all the rules of the current law are converted into guidelines other than one Regulation, which is the Regulation on the acceptability of expenditure which continues to retain the power of the Regulation. This amendment is proposed for the reason that any non-compliance with the provisions of a binding legal act such as the Regulation can lead to financial corrections to the Republic of Croatia by the European Commission, i.e. reductions in allocations allocated and structural funds and cohesion funds. In other words, we relax a somewhat legal framework for the use of European funds in order to avoid possible penalties or corrections by the European Commission at this stage while the system is still being prepared and adapted in some way to play a role in the use of European funds. Furthermore, the amendments and additions to the Regulations require a longer and more complex adoption procedure than the guidance system which, at the stage of implementation, could, both for the users of European funds and for the bodies in the system, undoubtedly lead to circumstances that would slow the use of structural instruments. In contrast, the procedure for adopting guidelines, i.e. their amendments, is simple and fast as possible to adapt the rules of implementation of structural instruments more quickly and easily. In accordance with real needs and gained experience in implementation itself. The proposed amendment will not apply only to the Regulation relating to the acceptability of expenditure. Since it's the same prescriptive conditions for... and users themselves are not subject to the procedure, i.e. the obligation to act, but to determine in a fixed manner which costs are unacceptable, or conditionally acceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, we leave here a stricter legal form in the form of regulations since it is really predetermined and known which costs are unacceptable to finance. There is no need to relax the legal framework, i.e. descending from the level of the Regulation to the level of guidelines. Furthermore, the adoption of the relevant Regulation on the acceptability of expenditure is no longer in the jurisdiction of the certifying authority. With us at present, the Ministry of Finance is already in the jurisdiction of the coordinating body. This is the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds for a simple reason, which has shown that the substantive scope of the provisions of the Regulation on acceptability of costs falls more naturally under the responsibility of the coordinating body. In addition, the adoption of the rules for which the competent authority is responsible for the certification is long-term due to the need to give only the coordinating body to the content of the same prior consent. So we're simplifying jurisdiction over this rule. Due to the specificity of the use of funds for priority... technical assistance aimed at raising the effectiveness of the implementation of operational programmes of certain provisions of the law introduces an exception for projects in the priority axis of technical assistance, and all in order to make spending of funds under this priority more effective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This appropriation is intended to cover: Since the funds mentioned above are used by the authorities in the system by supplementing the provision of Article 10(3) or point 9 of the Act which, by amending and supplementing them, becomes Article 10(2) of point 9 of the planning of those funds, becomes the task of each individual body in the system, in order to avoid double-planning of the same funds at both level and at the level of the other bodies in the system that appear as a beneficiary of those funds. In addition to these two key changes, there are a series of language changes that I will now not inform you in detail which you have in the text of the law itself. With all the amendments described and the amendments to the law, we expect an improvement in the system for the use of EU funds, we expect greater flexibility in work, body, system. We expect to simplify and speed up the procedures for amending and supplementing the regulations, i.e. guidelines. The proposal to amend and supplement the law was submitted to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. So we accepted most of the additions from the authorities and we sent such text to the procedure for the Croatian Parliament. The implementation of this law will not require any additional financial resources. We thank you for your attention and hope that you will support these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57551	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of HDZ representatives and counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57552	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Pugliz. Today, there is also a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of EU structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia and which we are actually passing by emergency procedure. However, according to the content, changes and additions actually show that there are only technical changes in 10 articles. We therefore hold that this procedure really did not need to be done. By entering full EU membership, the Republic has become a beneficiary of EU funds, and for the first six months Croatia's membership is available 449.4m euros intended for the implementation of cohesion policy. Therefore, this law regulates the institutional framework for the use of structural instruments, interrelationships and relations, ensuring efficiency in the management of funds which is crucial not only for the successful use of funds but also for the general purpose of which Mr Puljiz is also in his introduction and spoke. European funds are designed as financial instruments to support the implementation of individual EU policies in Member States, and one of the most significant cohesion policies for which the EU has allocated 36% of its budget for the period 2007 to 2013. What is very important for the Republic of Croatia is the advance our country receives from the EU worth 150 million or 30% of 450 million euros during 2013 because it is also an important element of the calculation that Croatia provides its net recipient position in the first six months of membership. Therefore, the establishment of institutional structures is certainly for an important task which must be fully clear, i.e. everything must be defined, defined, written through established interrelationships that must be known. That's it. It is necessary to know who is doing what, how it works within six months of membership. According to the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues to be regulated by law, the Agency for the Review of the EU Programme Implementation System has established the basis for recommending the compliance of the system which primarily applies to the rules on how the body is handled in the system. So by this amendment, the rules of the current law become guidelines, except for rules relating to the acceptability of expenditure. Namely, any non-compliance with the provisions of a binding legal act such as the regulation of the Republic of Croatia may cost the Republic of Croatia major financial corrections by the European Commission or a reduction in the allocation of allotment from the Structural Funds and Cohesion Funds. What is primarily in this proposal for legislation and what is actually adopted are the amendments in Article 10(1) of points 5 and 6 where an exception has been introduced in terms of the position of funding planning in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for projects in the priority axis of technical assistance with the aim of avoiding double planning, so now the provision of Article 10(2) of the Law provides that expenditure from the project in the priority axis of technical assistance is planned by each body of the system in particular. Furthermore, the proposed amendments amend Article 11(1) of the 12th Act in such a way as to ensure that these amendments and additions are made to ensure that the intermediate body of the level two ensures that users use a specific accounting system of codification for projects. Therefore, as it is indeed a small change and a more detailed explanation, it is not necessary to point out that this is a strategic document for the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of using structural funds and cohesion funds for the financial period from 2007 to 2013. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57553	Thank you too, colleague. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The HDSB club will also accept the draft law amending and supplementing the law that only this name of this proposal of the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of the EU structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia with the final draft law. So, a bit complicated and a little complicated and written so that those basics that you were talking about, and also colleagues Ante Babić were actually the basic things that should have been mentioned, other than those technical details and finishing up like words that change certification, certification, then selecting and then evaluating the term selection of operations etc. So, one adjustment of this legal material through the amendment of these words that have been translated into what I am particularly interested in, which is in the assessment of the state in which it writes, the assessment of the situation, in which it says that, in accordance with the provisions of the law and regulation on bodies in the governance and control system of EU structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia of 2012 the National News Agency for the revision of the EU programme implementation system, I honestly believe that many of you MPs didn't even know that there was such an agency called ARPA, and that it works and it does very important work in fact. Its role is to examine, inter alia, the compliance of the system with relevant EU regulations and national regulations and to make recommendations for improving the same, with a view to ensuring the dedicated use of structural instruments. So a very demanding role, or long written, is actually simply to control the spending of dedicated funds from the EU Structural and Cohesion Funds. What I noticed when I read this material is that the basis of the findings and recommendations is precisely that of the agency called ARPA which is derived from the system's conformity assessment process, amendments and additions to the law are proposed, namely this law in the section relating to the rules on how the body is handled in the system. By amending the rules of the current law, they become guidelines, and yet the guidelines become instructions as far as I understand from all of this except that of which the Deputy Minister also spoke. All in all, to say the technical law that the HDSSB club will accept not to continue and I don't spend precious time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57555	Thank you, too. On behalf of HNS Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. The amendment of this law in the sense that the rules are converted into guidelines and the guidelines in the instructions can be justified at least the arguments set out are neutral. It is said that non-compliance with the rules can lead to financial corrections, means a reduction of funds and, in addition, the rules are more difficult to change. That's not really an argument enough for either of us. The question is, of course, whether the level of documents of sublegal acts has been well determined in so far, whether or not it has been affected. So it's not the idea to get guidelines instead of regulations, so we'll often change them and there'll be no sanctions for their disrespect. There is no reason to explain it, I guess that's why it's changing because that level of documentation is obviously too high and then creates difficulties in the flexibility of the process, and it can also cause financial difficulties. If, however, these documents go too low if they change easily to make it easier to change to avoid financial difficulties, then new problems of insufficient quality documents will arise which will ultimately have more consequences than financial corrections based on the application of the rules. It would be good to say something about it, but it's a very specific narrow matter, and then, in the light of the law, there's no argument. This is a law that regulates a very important and equally very complicated matter. When you just count the bodies involved in this with that specific language, which is obviously a language that we have partly adopted from the European documents of the relevant regulations, then it is very complicated to understand, and it is probably very complicated to implement and manage that system. So you have the managing body, the coordinating body, the certification body, the audit body, the intermediate body level 1, the intermediate body level 2, and you have some very specialised and special terms such as the priority axis of the operational programme which, of course, one who does not have a very difficult time understanding what that would mean, except of course abstractally. The question of course how this abstract term is applied in practice and how it is verified. When it comes to termological changes to the law, it would be good to know whether it is the fruit of some single approach by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to some policy of lecturing the law that these expressions are converted into one another or replaced by another law and that the opposite procedure is carried out in another law. If we are to change the terms that are approximately the same, then it should be a unique language policy in the legislative acts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So the verification changes into verification, generation into achievement, choice in selection, and certification in verification. If that is the case if it is a single government policy to make it easier to read and understand laws, then it certainly needs to be supported. If this is not done at government level as a single normative language policy then it should be done not only for the sake of clarity of our understanding but also for the understanding and easier reading of these legal acts generally by those who apply them and those who use them. And at the end of that change in Article 9(3), I think you have made a mistake, so in the current paragraph of the 3rd word you replace it with the word corresponding, and by reading that text it seems to me that the current provision is correct, so it is written of paragraph 3 of the existing Article 10 in point 1. "preparing the draft criteria for selecting projects within the appropriate priority", this fall seems quite appropriate to me, and you suggest that it prepares the criteria for selecting projects within the appropriate priority, without the letter g which seems to me to be a mistake, so if it is a mistake and if I have read it well if you already have the ambition to correct errors in the law itself then it would be good to correct this error that you are introducing in my understanding of this text, or to end that change that is unnecessary and guilty. Everything I've said, of course, is out of the question that this law should be challenged. Those who apply it best know what needs to be changed in this law and I hope that the level of these lower documents is appropriate, that, indeed, as the proposer says, it will now be easier to manage this system, that the system will become more flexible, which will ultimately lead to better implementation of the operational programme and, of course, with all these well-intentioned remarks from the Club of Representatives of the HNS will accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57557	Thank you, too. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57558	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of EU structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 504. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Please Deputy Minister, Your Honor, he's gone, the esteemed Yakshu Puljiz. He's gone? We're gonna postpone the vote on this. We are now going back to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of EU structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 504. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask the Deputy Minister, the Honorable Jacksu Puljiz, to show about amendment number one of the Legislative Committee on Article 2 of the Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57560	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57561	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two to Article 8 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57562	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57563	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. And Amendment number three to Article 11 of the same Committee on...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57564	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57565	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Can we get a score? I find that, unanimously with 99 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in the establishment of an institutional framework for the use of EU structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57566	We continue with: - Final bill amending and supplementing the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 506 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Regional and Regional Self-Government. You've received reports. With us, Minister Anka Dark Taritash is with his assistant. On behalf of the Proposer, please elect a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57567	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us the amendment and addition of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, or rather the amendment and addition of so-called buildings. Legalization law. What's this about? It is that as I had the opportunity to speak to this distinguished House several times already, we are in one process of fixing the situation in space. This process of fixing the situation in space, one small link in it is our Law on Legalization. Compared to legalization, the state-of-the-art process in space is carried out in five phases. The first stage was for our citizens to recognize the law as the basis for which they can solve their years of accumulated problems and file demands. And indeed, our citizens recognized this law as a law based on which they could solve the problems of illegally built buildings for years. And we received more than 800,000 requests by the end of June, or around 820 thousand requests. The second phase is to organise ourselves in a way that regulates what local, regional levels, what to organise if there will be problems for the office at the state level to resolve these requirements within one appropriate time frame. The third stage is that our citizens can really get their solutions by the end of 2015 because these solutions do not only need to fix their situation or solve all their relationships in relation to the papers than they need, and because of a number of activities, I primarily think about agriculture or economic facilities and applying to funds, but also a series of work permits and others. The fourth phase will be the phase in which we will do the change and complement the spatial plans, i.e. the recovery plans to define what and how these buildings in the future, their position in the space, and how to do with the spaces that are devastated by illegal construction. And the fifth and final phase is that of the means that come from legalisation, which in local self-government units, therefore to municipalities and cities, which at the state level to encourage municipal equipment and all other activities, that the funds that came from legalisation come back and into the space where it happened. Two basic reasons and two basic topics are why we have prepared and made this amendment to the law. The first topic is about the register, so the best law in the world if you bring it in, if you don't make it regularly, if you don't see what the consequences of this law are, if you don't see what you need to do, if you don't see how to help our citizens get all those approvals and the solutions that these laws provide won't be a good law. We've been following this law since the first hour since it was passed. We follow at the level that our offices should, therefore, have informed us at the level of local or regional self-government at the level of the monthly number of requests received and the number of requests resolved, whether or not the approvals were granted or the requests refused. And at the level of the month, we got that analysis and that number. This figure we received at the level of a month proved that by the end of the office we still do not have the correct number of applications received because no records have yet been made properly. In order to solve this problem in a certain way, we are introducing the obligation to register in this Law. The obligation to register at country level for all procedures or for all solutions must be entered in the register. This register, other than the class, includes, in addition to the general data, who the applicant is, as this legalisation refers to, as this solution is legalised, which is the fee and is therefore obtained in a very simple anal form. The result is that in ISPU, therefore, the information system of spatial order that I have already mentioned several times in front of this respected home when I spoke about the state of the space report and when we were in the first reading of our three basic laws in ISPU, or the information system of spatial order, a solution about the state of play will be seen, i.e. any building which, based on a solution to the state of play, gets legal status, it will be marked and will be marked with an icon that shows that this house is legalized. We have delivered these programs to all offices, offices are already filling them in a certain way, but it must also be a legal obligation because there are offices that do not do so, so on some voluntary basis what needs to be done is not done and that is why it goes into the law. And the second topic why we're going to change and supplement the law is the establishment of an agency. I've already told the government that I'd very much like that body that's going to do legalization to be called different. Unfortunately, though, it can only be called an agency. It is about an agency that is founded for a certain time, an agency that will work and deal exclusively with a solution to the state of play. The agency that was funded because as you well know, when the law was in front of this respected home, then we defined and told. 20% of the funds go for office work, 30% of the funds obtained from the legalisation process goes to municipalities and cities where it happened and 50% goes to the state. And on several occasions I said what of those 50% should be done and what we will do. So I repeat this, this time the agency is at a certain time, the agency is going on while we also have solutions about the state of play and the need to issue. The financing agency is also exclusively from a solution to the state of play, i.e. from the compensation that is therefore coming into the budget. What is important to emphasize and say, why the agency now, why we are already in front of this respected home and by what criteria we have chosen the percentage. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So by 31.12. this year, all those offices that solve 20% of the requests received, of course, that none of these offices will go to the agency, these offices will continue, but those who solve below 20% to 20% go to the agency. 20% of us get from the analysis of the items we have at this time, 20% is for the reasons we want to achieve, and that is that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether they have their real estate in the field of office or unit of local and regional self-government that works very quickly and effectively or which so does not have the right to get their own solution on the executed state at a certain time. We have offices already at the end of the 10th month, so the data we have at the end of the 10th month has been solved 20%. We have offices that at that time have 13-14% and we can see a big step... at 20%, but we have offices that are at 3% and we have too many of those offices that are at 3%. It is evident that one who is at 3% has no chance of reaching a number of resolved cases and no movement is seen. What have we done? We've proposed to all the offices to give us their work plan. The 7th and 8th months we have concluded annual vacations are and let everyone record the items, we won't bother them or insist but we said give us a work plan for the 9th month, give us a work plan for the 10th month. According to the work plan that the offices gave us to solve in the 9th and 10th months, we already have 2,000 less cases solved than they said they would. If we wait for the end of 2014 that backlog will be too large and we will no longer be able to see and solve it. With this intensity, if we leave it only to the offices of local or regional self-government, the indicators show that it takes 16 years for us to solve this large number of requests, which is absolutely impossible and unacceptable. What you need to know is that up to 1.6 at the level of the Republic of Croatia we have received about 200,000 requests, some 57,000 of which have been resolved. It's about 200,000 requests that are more or less complete and complete. This large number of 820 happened at 6 months at the time when really citizens who thought we'd give up on the date, we'd extend the date, we'd give up legalization, when they realized we wouldn't do that, then that big number that the state of emergency did was filed. But out of 800,000 demands, 20% is 160,000 demands, so if they settle and solve by the end of this year we get some number of solutions in such ideal conditions that some 90,000 still have 70,000 requests from our citizens that are properly submitted, which are more or less complete and which are not solved. And that's why we decided to move faster with the establishment of the agency for a simple reason, the agency is an aid. So maybe we'll help one of the offices, put all the offices in the starting position from 1.1.2014, that up to 20% is with us, that they start, the next checkout will be after half a year at 15%. So when they solve in the next six months 15% of course, the case won't go to the agency. Our interest is absolute and I am taking this opportunity, which is that as much is being solved in the offices of local and regional self-government as possible. It is our interest, it is also an interest of these offices, but we are also aware of the fact that not everyone can capitulate for a certain period of time, that not everyone can organize for a certain period of time. So this agency isn't something that's some kind of broom or this way I apologize in advance, some kind of bogeyman, but it's the agency's help. So we see the agency as an aid that will come into the situation that our offices are all about to be balanced, that is, better said all citizens of the Republic of Croatia must have the opportunity to address their legalisation problem in a certain time, i.e. to solve and obtain an adequate solution. Once again, two subjects are amendments and additions to the law, one must keep a register, that we know about what our situation is with our subjects, and the other is the establishment of an agency. All people who will be employed by the Agency apply the provisions of the Labour Act to them and they will be employed for a certain period of time and in contracts will write that their work is exclusively with the termination of the Agency’s work, i.e. with the last solution on the state of play, and the termination of the work of people in offices. So one more topic to recap is the register, the other topic is the agency. Why, once again now, for the simple reason that we're stalling the problem will be bigger. We follow really at the monthly level and there is a huge shift in individual offices, but you can see also the office that actually continuously at the level of a month solves the minimum number of objects and you can see no shift that is certainly not good for fixing the situation in space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57568	Thank you, Minister. We have a few replicas. Branko Hrg picked up first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, in this government you belong to the ranks of those ministers who have experience in practice and know the work they do. Unfortunately, you're not exactly in the majority. I'll say here that as far as the register and this part of what you've explained and what you're proposing in the amendments to this law is normal and it should be done but I don't really agree with the establishment of this agency and the employment of 160 people. If it must already be the name of the agency like you said and it could be accepted in some way but on another condition. So I repeat it several times and in some other topics, we keep saying that we have too many people in the public service. Why don't we redistribute people for a certain time, because this is an agency for a certain time to do the job. In what way? Whether at the agency, on the centralized, do you by the offices for issuing building permits throughout Croatia. It's less important at this point, but in any case, I don't think it's acceptable to have new employment in public services. You're saying that 20% is meant for it and that it's not a new cost, that it's a covered financial structure. That's true if you look at it that way and it's not true if we look at it realistically because that 20% of the money would be spent on something else, it wouldn't be spent on wages. This is how people who work in public services will get paid, and we will put in new 160 people who will also work a new burden on the state budget. So I feel that it is really not acceptable and that you need to think further about really making a redistribution within the ministry and thus solving this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57570	Thank you. We have the secretary's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57571	Thank you very much. So I repeat once again, 20% of the legalization bill's funds that we call it, it says that that 20% of the funds go exclusively for the office's work and can't be used for anything else. So whether it's going to be an office that's at the level of local and regional self-government or whether it's going to be this office. It's about the same 20%. We gave all the county offices, offices in the county and all the offices in the big cities the opportunity to organize. Of course, the one who organizes, redistributes the people with whom he already has, comes to a certain percentage, we won't need that agency. We actually use one such comparison. The agency is very flexible. That means when we talk, we're talking about 70 to 80,000 objects that are going to start. After we settle this, if we see that all the offices have capacitated in the county areas, or cities, we will shut down the agency and leave it very gladly that this job is being done there. So, this agency is very flexible. She doesn't have those sharp outlines like some other agency. That means she's taking up to 160,000 items. Once it's settled, if the arrangements are completed, the offices will continue to resolve. But I repeat, why now. We couldn't get into a situation at the end of 2014 and then establish a large amount of unsolved items and then start an agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57572	Thank you, too. Next line of Mirella Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57573	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I highly appreciate the Ministry of Construction's intensities that as much as possible can be solved by this problem. And in that sense, I welcome the idea of a register. However, I have some doubts about the agency. I don't mind hiring additional people to solve these cases. However, I think it would be far more useful for these people to be employed in those offices that have problems solving these cases because this means working on a specific freighter in these local self-government units where a particular problem arises. In addition, I do not understand the little calculation that we could also read in this introductory part of the law where there are said to be a total of 822487 requests, and that so far, in 4 months, some 50,000 and 50927 cases have been resolved and that this is 6% and that if things continue to be solved at this rate they are expected to solve in the next 16 years. According to my calculations and logic, if we count that it means that 51,000 per case is solved in a third year, that would be about 150 and some thousand items a year. This should take about five and a half years, not 16 years, as it says in this opening section, and what was eventually communicated in the media. So it seems to me that regardless, given the fact that some offices have solved 20% of the cases and some solve 3% of the cases, if we're talking about a general calculation like this, it doesn't stand. So I think it would be far more useful to strengthen capacities in local offices and thus speed up the resolution of these cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57574	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57575	Thank you very much. Indeed, if it were about four months then that calculation wouldn't have stood. But what we must not forget, which is that the law came into force in August 2012 of this, that before that we had the same law that had the same name that had been in force since 2011. And it's about solving the case from August 2011 to August 2012 under the old law, and from August 2012 to the end of October this year under this law. And what you can see, so on our website where we opened all the data on Tuesday, that all the data was clear to everyone we now managed to get rid of 6 and a half thousand objects at the level of a month in October. In September, 6000 cases were resolved and it really goes from month to month, but it rises at 200 to 300 cases. So October 6 and a half thousand items, a thousand and a half less than what the offices told us would solve. September 6000 items and here I call for you to actually visit our website, you have all the data for months and how much of it is on the monthly level who solved it, and... how much the percentage is total and then we gave the percentage by the number of employees and the percentage by the number of employees we have recorded, which the offices reported to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're very detailed in these statistics and it's that it's a longer period than these four months, and then it needs to be seen during this longer period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57576	Thank you. And the next replica of Vishny Fortuna. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57577	Thank you very much. Here I would really commend the Ministry of Civil Engineering as one truly quality, professionally, efficiently and precisely this and this, the establishment of this agency proves that it is one ministry that is really following, and especially jobs related to legalisation, scope and number of jobs that we all know and we see, and therefore I am sure that this agency will be a great help, and that part that the esteemed representative of the Croatians said that this is possible from the existing employees of the ministry I know for sure that it is impossible because everyone has their jobs, it is a large ministry that has a large range of jobs. So that's not possible. And I'm sure it's not hiring it's just hiring for a certain time with the legalization process when it's done by those employees who will be there, of course, will no longer work here. Therefore, I really very much support the establishment of this agency and I am sure that it will be a great help in the legalisation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57578	Thank you. Here you go, Minister. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do the workers want to take a word for it? Here you go, buddy Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57579	Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. At today's session of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, we discussed this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings with the final draft law as a parent working body. In the opening presentation of the representatives of the Deputy Minister of Construction, the reasons and the need for the adoption of this law have been presented and the first number of 820 thousand requests is highlighted, the number solved, and 6% of all that has been solved in this period and the need for the establishment of such an agency. Of course, it is expected that the city’s county office, which is also involved in legalisation, will achieve 20% by the end of the year, 35, 50, 60 and all further as it goes with 2015 to solve first the situation in a non-good and second place in order to fill the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. In the debate there were also proposals and considerations that perhaps not all of this should be centralized in one agency in Zagreb, the problems resulting from this, unnecessary costs and suggestions on how perhaps more people in local self-government units should be employed. Thus, with such proposals, it was of course the most proposed or most proposals to support the adoption of such a law. It is also encouraging for units of local self-government or regional administration, i.e. there is an opportunity to trade to do the job and then there will be no 160 and I do not know this size or number but will need a number of new employees at the agency. Therefore, it was estimated that the proposal for this establishment of the agency was one of the extremely large responsibilities taken over by the ministry and of course we supported it with 6 votes in favour, 1 abstentioned by no one opposed to the amendment in Article 37(2), where the words of the legal direction were added to the point and the word architectural or construction direction. In fact, it is believed that since it is this matter, it would be necessary to make it possible for an expert in the field of architecture and construction. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57580	Thank you, too. My colleague Bacic commented that he was against the board. ... Okay, but you can clear that up on the next board later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of any other committees, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Damir Mateljan. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Madam Secretary with the secretary, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings that will be supported by the SDP club. If we were to sum up this bill, we could bring it down to one thing, which is the formation of an Agency for the Law of illegally built buildings. Today under the impression of the crisis and the intensities to reduce, rationalising the state administration to defend the establishment of another agency is neither popular nor easy. However, by passing the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings in August last year, this government intended to solve a problem, a problem of lawless construction that has accumulated for years to remove negative impacts on the economy that cause illegally built buildings and regulate the situation in space. That law lays down the time limit for the submission of applications and the level of the legalisation fee and sets out the percentage used for the purpose of strengthening capacity, in particular administrative ones which should address the applications submitted. The whole work related to this problem should begin to address the competent administrative authorities in the counties and cities that have the power to do so. After the deadline of 30 June of this year, a total of over 800,000 requests were received more precisely as stated in this proposal by Law 822 000 and 487 requests, while only a small number has been resolved so far, and as this ministry projection would have said by such a dynamic means, this problem would only be solved for 16 years. This fact is then fully dictating the meaning of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings and all the positive effects this law should have. Therefore, after the ministry detected the problem, it offered a solution to this problem, and this is the solution contained in this bill, i.e. in the establishment of an Agency for the Law of illegally built buildings. I do not think that the Ministry of Construction is too happy because part of the jobs that should have been dealt with by the competent administrative authorities in the counties and cities must have taken over on their backs but apparently that such a large number of requests received have been found by the competent administrative authorities in large parts of the local and regional self-government units quite unprepared. For this reason, for the purpose of a faster and more effective process of resolving the accepted requirements for issuing a solution to the state of play, the achievement of the basic purpose of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings or of the legislation as many as possible of the lawlessly built buildings. So these amendments and additions to the laws, i.e. The establishment of an illegal building law agency expects a significant increase in the solutions made. It is therefore necessary to say that this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings does not punish anyone, especially those units of local or regional self-government that have proved effective. Article 5 sets out the deadlines within which the Agency will verify the effectiveness of the administrative authorities and take over only the number of cases which have not been resolved by the competent authorities in accordance with those deadlines and norms. Therefore, there is still room for those counties and cities which, for some objective or other reasons, have failed to lay down their capacities in their respective administrative departments to do so and thus to use the means intended for this part of the job. to catch the rhythm in solving this problem. And that is because some of the doubts that local self-government units had resolved, above all, regarding new employment at the level of local self-government units. In fact, the counties and cities were not sure whether this new employment on the legalisation business was entering that 20% limit of salaries that could be paid out of their own income. However, the Ministry of Finance was clearly shown that these funds are intended for this scope of business and do not enter that limit. Therefore, nothing prevents local self-government units from employing the required number of qualified persons in order to make the departments in charge more efficient and faster. In the end, I would say that the SDP Club expects this new agency not to be centralised, i.e. that its employees are not solely stationed in Zagreb because it is difficult to imagine that it would be worth a tour of the terrain, for example from Zagreb to Kornate or in Ilock to be profitable. In addition to what the parent committee has proposed as an amendment, we therefore believe that in Article 37, the University Study of Law should be extended with the possibility of a university study of a building or architectural direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57582	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. The first one was Branko Hrg. Here's your colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mathelan, I'm going to ask a very simple question. Do you think there are too many employees in the public administration? Everyone is talking about extra employees in the public administration and I really can't understand that after that fact we are talking about new employment in the establishment of an agency with limited duration. I really think we need to redistribute people. We've got hundreds of them. Let's start from state offices to county. Let's get out of there. There are already people there who can redistribute, who are looking for a job, who seek the sense of general existence in the workplace, fear for their jobs. As long as they're afraid for jobs, we're starting a new agency. All right, I don't mind starting a new agency, but I'm against having a new job opened in a way that employs new people as long as we're saying that there are extra employees in the public administration or we're going to say that there are no extra employees in the public administration. We'll say we have no one to redistribute. I didn't say it was necessary to redistribute people from the Ministry of Resort. There are other ministries, there are other services. My people, do we really convince ourselves that it's impossible to do this? I can't figure it out. And I think you guys at the SDP club might end up asking that if that's exactly what happens to solve legalization as many as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57584	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, fellow Mattelian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That my colleague Hrg agrees that there are too many employees in the public administration, counting on local self-government, but depends on what professions. In county offices or you have these offices dealing with search for ore and waste of time, so you have people who, who have completed the polythology, who have completed the traffic, who have completed colleges, whose profession is not to deal with this range of work. Unfortunately, in this part of the job we have too few people in the county, but no one prevents the county if in the county and in the cities dealing, who have the right to deal with this problem if there are people to redistribute that both counties or cities really redistribute. No one is really stopping them, especially this law. This law actually encourages them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57586	Here I am. Next replica Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Matteljan, I'm replicating you but partly the minister because it says so in the opening part of the law, that's what you said when this intensity solves legalization cases that would take at least 16 years, right? That's not true. That would be true if the intensity of the case resolution over the past year was the same as the law in force. But in your second part of your exposure, you confirmed what I'm about to say. The ministry is only at the end of August 29th and after the Ministry of Finance has confirmed that 20% of the funds do not enter the pay limit of all those employees who will work on issuing a solution in... state only then can we say that the large cities, counties and cities to which the work of spatial planning has been transferred can be solved in full capacity. Because many counties and cities didn't even hire because they couldn't, and they weren't even sure if they were going to enter the limit prescribed by law. Therefore, we can say that the counties and administrative departments of large cities and other cities to which jobs were transferred only after 1 September can be handled with full intensity because they can then employ all those employees that the law allows them to do. And I believe it's only now that there's actually a time when you can ask management departments to solve with that dynamics they've also delivered to the ministry for the ministry's search. It should therefore be seen at what speed they are now solving at what rate they will be solving in the next 2, 3 months and then speaking whether it is 6 years or 16 years or 5 years or another deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57588	Thank you. We've got an answer from a fellow Mattelian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57589	A colleague of Bačić's that I agree partly with you, and I believe that really after the Ministry of Finance's reaction and after the reaction of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, so after this bill, many units of local self-government will, therefore, speed up that part of the job and that these deadlines in Article 5 will lead to the fact that the agency has as few employees as possible and that the units of the regional self-government are more capacitated. And I don't think we're part of this, and I think this law motivates local and regional self-government units to strengthen their capacities. I don't see anything controversial about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57590	Thank you. And Mladen Marelić's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57591	Thank you, Vice President. You've detected your fellow Mattelian well. We have cases that individual major cities and counties are slowly issuing permits so that we wait until six years. There are cases that this is happening. I think forming an agency will help speed up their work and be hiring professionals. Because... not quality unprofessional people because this should be done by builders, architects that's their job. It's not a job for you to do that as soon as you've said certain engineers of various other professions, but it's a profession that can do this. Because I think big cities and counties will just get the incentive to work better and that they work and that they hire if the agency doesn't. But the agency is welcome to encourage everyone to work better. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57592	Thank you. This is my colleague Mattelian's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57593	Thank you. Yeah, actually, he works himself in the local self-government, the head of a community, and I've always advocated decentralisation. We have been given the law on illegally built buildings the opportunity we expected to decentralize in a way that gives us responsibility but that with that responsibility, we have been given this law. And so I repeat once again there is no reason why those units of local and regional self-government that have the power to exploit that possibility, exploit that 20% of the funds, strengthen their capacities and prove that they are capable of solving problems in this case legalisation or the process of illegally built buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57594	Thank you, too. On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers with Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I join the praises of all of you in your replicas for taking a positive look at the Ministry of Construction. I also share the same opinion with you and this law, which is now in the emergency procedure, would firstly call a preventive intervention law. Because what we were talking about and what governments and ministries before this government were saying was a political problem in the Republic of Croatia and economic and economic and social certainly were illegal objects. So this ministry does nothing but what the ministries did before. Why am I saying this? It is precisely responsibility because of this very important problem that in the Republic of Croatia illegal facilities this ministry has worked very well and has approached this problem. The ministry and experts from the ministry visited all the county offices, all cities and agreed on how to resolve and how to deal with it. Unfortunately for the ministry, the checkpoint that was these days, we got the following results, so only 5 cities and counties were over 15% that we could say will come to this passing time of 20, and then we have nine such offices that are from 10 to 15% and one huge number below 10%, that I'm not talking about those that mean 39 offices that are below 10%, that I'm not talking about those offices that are on modest 2 or 3. What I would say is that the ministry headed by the minister in this proposal for amending this law did not go ad hoc, that it was going too quickly, unargumented, I think the argument made by the minister and her deputy on the board must certainly speak of the need to be approached in this way and with these changes. What I'd like to point out is that law enforcement agency is not a good competition. Because the good ones are gonna do their job and they're gonna do their job and the agency can't get into their business. This is where I see the agency helping the bad guys. And in this context, we certainly support the establishment of a new agency to do the job. In view of the number of cases and the complexity of this legalisation procedure, the legalisation offices could, as far as possible, have been able to obtain from the funds that would result from the law of illegally built objects, to form their teams to be greater, to be more quality. Why didn't they do it? We don't know. But they can certainly do it under this law at any time. When we get to the data that it's up to now and we hear it's not a real number, it's not a real number yet, it's got over 827 thousand illegal buildings built. Interestingly, no one ever talked about why people broke the law. You have four reasons. The first reason is the slowness in issuing permits. So it's the public administration's fault. The second reason was that there were no plans. It's the public administration's fault again. The third thing is divided into family matters, property legal affairs and only the fourth thing social. And on the issue of illegal objects, I think it's certainly necessary to respect this data too that people didn't go to get away from the law or not to pay, but it was a clear thing that they were subjective things that, that the public administration was who it was. What's certainly good is that in this number that we're talking to over 800,000 illegally built objects that are out of these, of these, 10% of the people who filed the request. Well, for safety's sake, maybe not, but now there's a chance on special terms, we'll do it. So we can start by saying that there's a certain number of about 80 to 100 thousand such demands that are already in space and we can't count on them. We can also talk about the part about not legalizing a part of the facility. Because I think the campaign made by the ministry was good and that people realized that it was very important for this segment of space regulation that it was important and economic and economic and social and that people accepted it all. I also commend the ministry that according to the projections of illegally built objects, it has seen that the pace is too slow. And for these reasons, the ministry proposes that an agency be set up in this law. Just for those reasons, that job would be as fast as possible, as high-quality as possible. I also said at the club that with this decision and taking responsibility, the ministry took on a huge burden. And that's why I have no doubt at any moment that the ministry will not insist that this is done properly. Also in those about 6 or 7 members who have changed, it is good for the ministry to project at which pace it will be resolved. This means that the ministry is justifiably controlling and managing the situation. It is also important to keep a register with the agency that will run legalisation activities of illegally designed objects, how much, when, in which space and the records will be kept. Because legalizing objects without that register doesn't seem right. It is also important here to note that this law knows exactly what part of the funds goes towards the units of local self-government, according to the ministry and that it goes towards the agency that will do so. It must not be forgotten that of those 50% funds, the ministry will be required within two years to adapt all spatial plans according to the strategic spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. I think that these are all important things and that for these reasons this law should be and accepted. What's important in this law where I said, the reasons why we're changing, the way we're going to change it. And what's important is that this law is all measurable in this business, that you know exactly which ones are successful, which ones are less successful. Normally, the Croatian People's Party Club fully supports this bill and that we will vote for it because we believe that this law will make space in the Republic of Croatia a better quality and long-term solution for the well-being and space and for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57596	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, the first is Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57597	Dear Representative, you said it was good for the ministry to take over, or an agency that would be set up to take over items from units of local self-government that cannot handle cases with the dynamics that have been drawn up. Now we ask 822 thousand 457 demands, five hundred fifty-five units of local self-government, cities and municipalities that issue local solutions. As the agency will issue solutions here in Zagreb for Lopar, Rab, some city in the Primorje-Gorski County, and I know that this Primorje-Gorski County is trying to team up, that practically day and night working with people who are available to meet this average, or percentage that should be solved and issued solutions. Now, setting up a measuring agency by taking over all of these units of local self-government objects just don't see a model that some agency will be able to move faster, more efficient than local and regional self-government units where solutions are printed is the only model to see the reason why some local self-government unit is more efficient than the other one and to allow people on the ground to team up and do it as provided for by the basic law, which is certainly fine. Simply this percentage cannot be achieved on the ground, and when we say that some units of local self-government have solved 20%, another 6%, how many items they have received, whether a detailed analysis of each office on the ground and what their terrains are. We cannot say that people in Rijeka or Osijek or elsewhere are more or less effective. Their problems are what I know personally, in the Primorje-Goran County the biggest problem is teamwork and ability to go out on the ground, and the rolling stock does not meet all these needs so that I do not see a model in which this newly founded agency will have to hire people such problems to solve all over Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57598	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57599	Dear colleague, I thank you for your question. I said exactly that the ministry is taking the initiative, and that's good, that's the ministry's job. If you noticed, I also said in my statement that the agency is not a good competition. Good people don't have competition. I see the agency more as a corridor, to help the weak. If you team up in the Primorje-Gorski County in the town of Rijeka, the team has nothing to do. The agency can't tell you I'm taking you, so exactly the familiar times are transient and the percentages. If they do, no one takes them, if they do more. The goal is for all of us to get this job done as soon as possible. The way you organize a job that I can't tell you, that's what people will say... It's so clear, but you have part of the costs that say 20% go to the agency. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If that agency can't do it then it'll work with a negative result, but I don't think it'll go for an individual object if it happens that there are multiple objects then it'll go on the ground, but I think it's a matter of clean organisation of business. In this regard, it is good that the ministry has an initiative, has tools, has seen the problem and knows how to solve the problem. That's the most important thing in all of this, because it would be sad if two years from now if the ministry had come, listen, gentlemen and Mrs. Representatives, we didn't do it. No, this is taking responsibility for the job and this is the job of the minister with full responsibility for the management of the ministry and for the results of the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57600	Thank you. Next line, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mandic, you said that this agency is not a good competition but a help for the weak or the bad, you said the weak, I think, yes. Well, I think there were more ways to help the weak, but... Inefficient... weak, inefficient, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We used to seem to have passed one law a month ago on strategic investment projects. When it comes to large investors, when it comes to their demands, then the civil servants will be punished when they are large and there are penalties prescribed unless these same officers solve their case within 7 or 8 days, and here we will put additional burden on them because I am sure that this agency will cause another cost to the taxpayers. Here, when it comes to the resolution requirements, the issue of a solution to legalization of objects, then we'll set up a new agency. I agree with Mr Klaric that this agency, as much as the ministry has tried to convince us that it will not additionally burden taxpayers from the state budget, later in the debate on behalf of the club, I will prove that, in any case, the following year, this agency will, when it starts to hire, simply force the ministry to finance it not only from the funds, but from the ministry's funds. Why has next year's budget increased significantly exactly the item relating to the legalisation of illegal facilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57602	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I have listened very carefully to you, so in the case of strategic investments of the Republic of Croatia, I think we should view them as an interest of the Republic of Croatia. Based on these investments, the number of new employees will increase, the Croatian economy will be more quality, more competitive, the product that will be obtained with strategic investments will certainly contribute to certain growth of the social product. As for the new quality, I am convinced that this agency will bring new quality and again say that the good ones must not fear at any moment. On this part of employment, the ministry cannot employ in units of local self-government, in the counties. It is the second part of the work, and even this law does not at any time prevent units of local and regional administrations from getting their own training. On this part, which is related to the involvement of a particular part of the public system workers, I am convinced that there are not so many architects and builders in the public administration because it is either a lawyer, because it is one specific job, one specific administrative process of legalising illegal objects. But let's talk about this problem next year at this time, and we'll see who's right, whether you challenge or we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57604	Thank you. On behalf of HDZ Representative Branko Bačić. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57605	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Croatian Democratic Community club that cannot support the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. The Minister said in her introduction that two important reasons for the amendment of the law had been approached. One is the establishment of a register and the other is the establishment of an agency. So we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club this first part of the establishment of a register of illegally built buildings, i.e. the solutions issued, support it well that the ministry carefully observes the events surrounding the legalisation of illegally built buildings and in that part it is good that such a register has been established which is available on the Ministry's website every day to all interested and that is good. But in this second section concerning the establishment of the agency, we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club do not think that it is a model and a solution that is suitable for this project which started in 2011 and which I would say in these past two and a half years strongly mark social events in the Republic of Croatia because it is 822,000 demands. In any case, the number and data that suggests that a large part of Croatian citizens in one way or another included in this large process which at the time of 2011, caused numerous controversy in Croatian society, and at that time, by proposing to this Parliament that the first version of this law was in a certain way exposed to a number of remarks, the views that this law introduces new inequality in the Republic of Croatia, that all citizens will no longer be equal to the law, because one city and pay the country's regular fees, the other cities illegally, and the state is going to meet them, allowing them a number of reliefs to build so many illegal buildings to the point of view that practically this is a debacle, i.e.e. defeat of the state administration, etc. etc. So certainly this law and its implementation have marked these events in Croatia's social life over the past two and a half years and the fact is that citizens' interest in solving this problem of illegal construction is extremely high and I welcome that the ministry and Ms. Minister regularly monitors the events and wants this project to be resolved and implemented as quickly as possible. Because it is indeed a major state project to legalise 822000 illegally built buildings or accessories or so on. etc. Let's not kid ourselves. It's not 822000 buildings. There are others, and in this number are also added, adaptations, reconstructions, upgrades, and balconies, etc. etc. But what I want to say is, when this law is bare then I said what is important and good to form a register then this law shows the government's mistrust with the units of regional and regional self-government, so to the counties and large cities, that is, the cities to which the law has conferred powers to regulate in the affairs of spatial order. In this law, the government indirectly argues that either this area self-government is incompetent or not known or cannot be organised as well as the state will be organised through its own agency. We can now try to make it beautiful and say that some are good, some are bad, some are less responsible for this project. But basically the government has no confidence in the units of the district self-government,... Great cities, so what they've been given by law in power to solve claims you can't solve it within a time frame that pleases the state, so we'll do it on your behalf. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is very simple from this law to see that the government has certain tasks prescribed by the existing laws by local self-government or by the government's regional self-government centralizing them. And that, when it comes to Madam Ministers, is exactly the jobs that are in your jurisdiction, your ministry seems to me that this intensity of centralization of spatial planning and, in part, in construction is extremely visible and in those proposals that we discussed in the first reading when it comes to the Law on spatial planning and the Construction Act, so that I don't speak in the section relating to the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, where we re-emerge both the counties and the cities and the municipalities, so here is now this law that can be good in its intention, but he's saying we don't believe that counties, cities and municipalities can do what one agency that will be founded by the state. And that's a fundamental problem. Not to say that in the beginning of the first few months until the agency is formed, while the agency starts to operate, while the agency employs a certain number of people to be required specific costs that are seen at the position of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction because in the following year, we are setting up the agency, the increase in costs at the position of holding illegally built buildings in the positions of the ministry is about 8 or 9 million kuna. However, regardless of this, according to Article 5 of this proposal, all those units of regional self-government, so county administrative departments and administrative departments of large cities or cities carrying out these jobs unless they resolve 20% of the requests received, are obliged to leave that difference between the number of resolved and 20% to the newly established agency after 1 January. If these same administrative departments continued to solve by the end of the year with the intensity they have been solving lately, then units of local self-government and cities that implement and issue these solutions would be left to the agency of 96,000 and 100 items that would then be taken over to solve the agency. And according to that same article, the administrative departments that will leave these 100,000 items to the Agency must, in each case, divorce, convert, address, send to the Agency and, after sending it to the Agency, inform the party, or its notifier. It's a significant administrative job. It's a big job that expects these same offices that are unable to solve at the speed the ministry expects. And since part of these legalisation cases are not very complicated procedures, that the administrative procedure for issuing a solution to the state of play is not terribly complicated, I am afraid that somewhere around 20% of the time it takes for him to divorce the case first in his own home, in his own administrative department, then refer him to the county, or the agency, and inform the party that he or she is no longer solving his or her administrative department of the county or the city, but that the agency is dealing with it now. And if I did not say, I must say, by law, that I did not read well enough whether these 160 employees of the agency, as far as the public and in the media, Madam Minister may be guilty, may be less, will these 160 employees be deployed in Zagreb, will the Agency's headquarters be in Zagreb or will 160 be deployed there on the ground where, at some point, their presence is necessary to speed up the resolution of these same cases? But anyway, it'll add up to the whole process. Mr Klaric said something about it before, so I would not talk about it now, but in any case going to an eyewitness from Zagreb somewhere on Ugljan or somewhere in Korčula or somewhere in Bjelovar or somewhere around Croatia will definitely complicate the situation and increase costs. And not to say that in the event of the execution of the administrative procedure and the hearings of the parties, if this happens in Zagreb, someone from Zadar will have to come to Zagreb. I can't read it from this bill. So, I don't know where the procedure is going to be, where it's going to be the agency's headquarters, where they're going to be employed by these people, who's going to buy them equipment, who's going to buy them vehicles, etc., etc. It's not clear from this law. But the government argues that it will not need additional costs but that it will be fully secured from the 20% fee. But I'm asking the question here, since at the end of August, we've told all the county and big cities that they can hire these people, and new references because they're going to be financed from 20% of the fee and they're already working there, maybe some and slow, but they're being funded from those funds. Now I don't understand how if we don't pass them those planned funds that they have on them, give them to the agency, and where we're going to pay in cities and counties and the same people that we planned for the same 20% that are now defined and heading towards the county. Furthermore, I said this earlier in my replica, I, Madam Minister, think that these same counties and these same cities that have so far solved some 53 thousand cases only now after you have met them that they really do not enter the funds for new employment into their 20% current income limits, if only now they had said in full capacity they would be willing to go into solving and issuing a solution to the state of play, only now. And it seems to me that they should have been released, followed as you follow them with the register, followed them daily and warned them about it. Because local self-government is trained to do that. If that were not the case, for example, the city of Dubrovnik would not have solved 20% and those first 15 units of regional, or local self-government that managed to adapt faster, maybe faster, maybe have had a bigger budget, and in that part they did not depend on this limit that the Ministry of Finance holds when it comes to the cost of salaries in local and regional self-government. Thus, they are just proof that this can only be done in a certain way to encourage them to do so as soon as possible. And if we were going to further employ a number of professional people on the legalization of illegally built objects, then we could deploy those same people right where at this point this job is not going well, so when an office is in line with the dynamics that he delivered to the ministry to solve these items, and then those same people who are in a better way already, faster and more quality working to move to somewhere else, it seems to me that it is better to set up a new agency besides all these agencies that we have in the Republic of Croatia. Here's a slow time going to the end, but there's one more thing I'd like to say. It seems to me that in these affairs of issuing a solution to the retention of objects on space, that it is primarily technical work, it is the work of an architectural or construction profession, and it seems logical to me that the director of this agency was just coming from the ranks of builders or architects, or, at the very least, it was not necessary to prescribe by law that the director of the agency could only be a person who has a law school or a degree study. So in any case, it should have been possible for builders and architects, and yet the primary job seems to me to be of a technical nature, and I think it would be better to do so. We therefore hold that there is no reason for the government to show this law no confidence in the ability of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. It is not good for us to exercise trust in this way. It should have been possible in other ways that this speed and dynamic that we expect it to be solved, to really help in another way, not to set up a new state agency as early as it is, however limited a lifetime by me it is not a good message to the units of local and regional self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57606	Thank you, too. We've reported eight replicas. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57607	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, I agree with your part that it is not necessary for the state to have no confidence in regional self-government units and locals, but it has been neatly doing so for two years so that it does not surprise me. But I am plagued by that part of the motivation that will arise after such a bill that will be adopted. If you and I can do the same job my motivation is to do that job if you can do it. So anything I don't solve, you have to solve it. If the money is divided 50, 30, 20 which is the motivation in that county office that he solves the case. Is she even there? Nothing's going to happen to me and the state has taken responsibility for her handling it. Can we stop it? We can't? Our employees down in the county will become mailmen, what you said, means. He'll do it nicely and we'll send it to Zagreb and let him handle it nicely. What's the interest in that except that this process just goes away because if we have to solve what I can do, you can do it. If I solve 10, you'll solve it for me, if I don't solve anything, you'll fix my desk. It's just logical things, and whoever reaches for these solutions created a bad competition unmotivating by me, unmotivating what can motivate me, maybe finance, maybe some kind of reward or so, but certainly not just that we can do the same job, then I'll gladly let you do it. And there won't be any pay, we'll see the fathers get paid if he's busy and if he has a contract, there's got to be pay. They're the only safe solutions, so it's lucky it stopped the construction season. Nobody's doing anything anymore, in my community no building permit in two years, so we have time to legalize.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57608	A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57609	I agree with my colleague, Boric, that at a time when no one gives you any punishment because you don't work or you don't want to work, but he says that if you don't do it, someone else will do it, then you'll probably have to do it a lot more than you'll do it to make it a different model. So I'm going to repeat here it was meant for this local and regional self-government to make it possible for this job she's legally designed to complete it and not for someone else to do it on her behalf because she has the capacity for it. She has knowledge and strength for that, and I'm saying it is confirmed by a number of cities and counties who have taken the secretary's words seriously that this job should be done. A moment ago, President Milanovic, commenting on a proposal for constitutional changes to the HDZ, said the proposal was worse, that it was amazing, this is auto-destruction. It seems to me that this is in a certain way the same from that same government of self-destruction that goes towards its own regional or regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57610	Thank you. Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, I appreciate your commitment to trying to convince us that this law is not justified. This is what I agree with you. Surely this is a major state project that was tried not only by the Government, which is now in power, but also by the Government of Jadranka Kosor and the Government of Ivo Sanader and even some before in an attempt to legalise illegal objects. That's a big problem. What we know for ourselves is that the question of the justice of this law is certainly questionable about legalization because we are bringing a group of people who have built the lawless into a more favourable position. We knew that, but what do we do? Whether 80,20 thousand objects break down, whether to do it, and do even more damage, or this. What you say is mistrust with the local self-government unit. No, not according to local self-government units, but according to the results of the local self-government unit. If someone has done in six months two or three percent of solved cases whether we can expect, and what is most unusual is that here when we look at successful cities, Countys that have no links do not know the Adriatic, continental large small towns, here see Dubrovnik, Bjelovar, Makarska, Vukovar, Vodnjan, Čakovec, Virovitica you are successful and they do not have to fear competition at any time, no one will take them. If in passing time cities, offices do not determine then the Agency will enter into force. As long as they're a successful agency, there's no need to hire. If you get a job and I don't know 30 June 2014 if they're on 35% of the agencies have nothing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57612	Thank you. A reply to Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You see, colleague Mandic, the agency will nevertheless form the basis of this law and it will start working and it will according to the current state of affairs according to the present state of affairs which can be slightly improved in these remaining 30 working days by the end of the year and less because we also have Christmas holidays, etc. So that nothing important will change the agency will. If we are to comply with this law on 1 January, we will assume that I have calculated on the basis of the dynamics of 96,100 cases so far, so that the Government or the Ministry or the Agency will employ full capacity. Because if that incompetent local and regional self-government continues with this intensity in six months, there are new 100,000 items waiting for that same agency. Therefore, the agency will in any way employ the full capacity planned, and I don't think that this model will encourage units of local self-government because they will now see it easier to make it easier for me to convert and refer to Zagreb than to insist and generate their own costs. I believe that this is the way the minister said it, which is to follow the daily events to react to these units of local self-government to encourage them to resolve it rather than take their powers, take their items and bring it to Zagreb today and thus increase the costs of this entire procedure and complicate both the parties and their pro-legislators the legalisation process. I am afraid that this model when these items go, for example, from Bjelovar to Zagreb, to these same Bjelovarci, will be a complicated procedure, and it will be a big one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57614	Thank you. Replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57615	Dear Mr. Bacic, I don't agree with you on any of this law. First, this law is logical written by this law the ministry forced practice. Who's been defending people from doing their job so far? You say they won't work now, so that's worrying. Your logic is upside down. So what are they doing there if it won't work? Why aren't they working? Why does it take so long for them to prepare, to move on? What have they been doing so far? It's a year ago if we take that old law, it's two and a few years, 2.5 years almost there. It's your illogical question, you say they'll pay people in cities, counties that have already hired people for that job. Well, then I guess those people will work and the agency won't have a job. The illogical question is, so if they took it, they didn't take people so they could hire new people. Earlier, a colleague listed some cities, some counties do their job without agencies. The agency is this time, thank God we have 200, if we didn't have them we'd be happy what 8/10 we don't need. This agency, for the first time, I'm saying that some agency needs to, and for the first time, it's something logical and that some ministry is reacting because it's not right on the ground and it says here we're going to do it now. The most expensive of all is the unhappiness and the 800 thousand objects. What you said, that you were asked is this legalization of the legal state's capitulation? Yes, the rule of law, the local self-government, we've capitulated, and now it needs to be fixed. All governments have capitulated in front of the team so far and now let the minister who has begun to do something about it do the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57616	Thank you. We have a colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57617	My colleague Vuksic, I absolutely disagree with you. What's this about? If the government didn't think it could be solved on the ground, then why didn't the original law form an agency in it hire 300 people and solve that job because you see it doesn't know local self-government. And from where you're so sure that those 200 people who hired cities and municipalities don't know you, you're lazy, and now the Priors are going to be these 160 in the agency to show those who are in Split, in Dubrovnik, in Zadar, in Karlovac you see you don't know, and that's why we took it from you, we'll handle it, we're the smartest. I believe that the same people will do the same quality, the same working skills in both local self-government and county and agencies. It would be more logical, therefore, if that is how you claim these same people to deploy per unit of local self-government and not create an additional cost to the state, we disagree.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57618	Next line, Jozo Radosh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57619	I respect your recognition to the Minister to follow how documents from her jurisdiction should be carried out, as should all ministers, but I must note that legalisation is a historic project in every sense and in its scope, and also on the historical roots of what she is doing. And it doesn't matter if the legalisation that should result in great benefits and create potential operating conditions that will allow large profits for the state doesn't matter whether the procedure lasts for 3 years or 15 years. If it lasts 15 years, we lose 12 years of potential gains from the arrangement of these ownership relationships. It's a big deal. And if local self-government hasn't shown for now that it can do that it's not a show of mistrust, it's just a finding that she hasn't been able to do it so far. Then it is logical to create an instrument of the minister of the competent institution and ministry that will allow the minister to monitor the implementation of the rules under his jurisdiction because it is his task. And that's this agency. If it turns out that local self-government units can do it themselves, then the agency will cut its scope. Perhaps the capacity of this job is such that local self-government and agencies are also needed. Even then, the agency will not be extra because those 10 years we get for earlier legalisation will certainly fertilize and bring benefits. Another way of doing things would be following, as is usually the case with us. We're not responsible, we've passed a regulation, the rule doesn't come true, we're not guilty, the job isn't done, it's all over. That's how it's been done in Croatia so far, but that's not a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57620	We have a colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Rados, I highly appreciate the minister, and I always say that from the pay phone, and when it comes to the proposals relating to the profession, all the laws that come out of the ministry of spatial order, I always regularly praise that. When it comes to this resolution organisation, I disagree, because I believe this is not a good way to speed up the legalisation process of illegally built buildings in Croatia. Namely, and that... right, all to solve the entire legalisation project within a year will still remain unsettled ownership relations because with legalization we only draw and book the facilities and their property remains unsettled as it has been so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, therefore, it is already another project that I am constantly advocating here in this assembly, which is that the need to make new cadastrian changes and new land books in Croatia will only then get the real success of what Croatia needs is an orderly land book and an orderly real estate catalogue. But as far as the agency is concerned, make sure that it speeds up significantly will not, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that the dedicated funds that were planned to be partly spent by the agency. I only regret that in this bill's assessment of the situation and the assessment of the necessary resources, we could not define how much the agency's resources would cost independently of the source of the Agency's income. So if we knew how much they would solve these items on one side, then we could know how much they would spend, so maybe we could all be much smarter together in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57622	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57623	Dear colleague Bačić, you said what I mentioned about trust in the local self-government unit. I come from the Primorje-Gorski County, they are very successful 13.57% at the top in Croatia. But I know these people, I know these references, I know how much they kill each other from work, and they and their principal to make it happen. They don't have sports in that part, sometimes what Mr. Vuksic said they do, they don't do their jobs, they do their jobs, they just need to know what they do, how they do the job. For every solution, it has to go out on the ground sometimes 20, 30 kilometers. And it's unfair to say that local self-government units don't do their job. However, through all these legislative proposals that are now repeated everywhere mentioning the ineffectiveness of units of local self-government, but fish, the old proverb says stinks of the head. We renamed AUDI as DUDI, and now we're starting AZONIS, so we're going to set up a state office for spatial planning that's going to plan the state. We have a strategic investment law where units of local self-government have been eliminated. And now the question is, we're going to set up an agency that's going to take over the items of the incompetent units of local self-government, so it's going to solve how we're dealing with Rab, I don't know where something this county office can't solve that's not true. I think the team, as you said ineffective, needs help in the human sense, financially, to team up and do the job. And their happiness in the accident in Croatia is that the real requirements for the issue of building permits have fallen, so it's still time to do as much of this work on legalising the facilities. To repeat the situation in 2005, '06, '07. When hundreds of requests came for a new construction, I don't see a model in which this percentage would be managed to get rid of them, that these same references must solve both objects and other objects. And I think this agency is completely... [[Thank you. Time co-worker.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57624	Next replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57625	Mr. Vice President. Here's counterpart Branko Bačić, in several times you said the state doesn't trust local self-government units, no confidence in local self-government units. This is not a question of trust or a question or a religious question of faith in local self-government units. This is a purely pragmatic question that a job of great importance, of historical importance, is being said by fellow Rados, to bring an end. You speak the same, and without excess why, you say the same, many have already shown themselves to be dissipating units of local self-government. So I'm gonna do one more thing, and I'm gonna do one more thing, and I'm gonna do one thing, and I'm gonna do one thing, and I'm gonna do one thing, and I'm gonna do one You're talking, so they haven't agreed yet, they said, no matter what the citizens don't know, and this isn't for the sake of state satisfaction, but for the satisfaction of the citizens, people want because now they have to, they didn't have to have a registered property in socialism alone. It's also dead capital if they don't register it. And they're aware of it, and they want it. And so we don't have all that dead letter left on paper, we have this agency. And the minister visited all the units, all the county centers, and she saw how business goes... The possibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This country doesn't work out of its own whim. So I'm glad to hear that you appreciate the minister. And it's easy to say that something's wrong and you as a former minister know well what's wrong and what's wrong. So perhaps in his discussions, and that would be good for final success, so a little less jealousy, a little less timidity, and a little more courage. Congratulate Madam Minister that as a woman, she's caught up with this job, and she's doing it very gently to the general joy of the citizens. It's acceptable that it didn't work out for all the generations of men doing this job. Give her courage and congratulate her. Well done, Minister. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57626	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Antičević and you have been a minister for many years, and then you would have to be very mild in approach and take the ashes for everything that you haven't solved in your term, and then you could transfer it to me. I've said a lot when the minister does something good that she did it well, and for your information this law and this legalization project I started when I was a minister two years ago. So much for that replica of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57628	Thank you. Next replica, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm still Boris. Mr. Representative, unfortunately, I'm only up now, and this beginning of the replica is almost the same as my dear colleague. When you spoke about the agency and when you showed your mistrust, that is, you said that the government's mistrust was primarily to the units of local self-government, and I read it primarily to the units of self-government. I'm afraid my greater mistrust with the county than with the government, especially with the county from which I come from, and you further said that it was centralization of the business of the county and the cities. But I'm asking myself a question, and it's not rhetorical to you, and here you can answer, and you don't need to, and I'm asking myself why these same cities and municipalities, the components of these individual counties, would be the hostages of these counties that don't carry out legal obligations. That's my question. So you've concluded it's a bad message to local self-government units. I'm turning that question around and I'm saying maybe it's a good message, and they need to be encouraged just because of these cities and municipalities that are powerless. This can also be accompanied by examples from practice because many cities, in the Republic of Croatia, have failed in their intention to get the county's consent to do these jobs that you talked about earlier, and this legal possibility exists. And now they're either guilty or indebted here on 2-3 or depending on the county to the county where this percentage is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57630	Thank you, too. We have an answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kovačić, you show no confidence in the county government, you say especially those counties from which you come, and I show enormous mistrust with this government. What you're talking about, you're saying that objects that are unable to solve successful cities and successful counties will be solved by a failed government. So that the government is a successful one that has prevented them from reducing the number of employees over the past two years, raising economic growth, increasing imports, reducing imports, increasing exports. What are you talking about? So, we in the Parliament say that local self-government is incompetent, and then on their behalf, these cases will be solved by a capable government, or a capable state level. Is that what it is, that might be the answer to your question. I am here defending those people who are still making those solutions and who could only now go into the right legalisation process on September 1st towards the dynamics expected by the ministry of these same administrative departments in cities and counties throughout Croatia. And it is proof that there are a number of cities and counties that are extremely successful and that this process will be completed itself, i.e. to complete within what the ministry has told them, which is that 80% of the cases will be resolved by the end of 2015. And those who couldn't handle it could be helped with additional people, not set up an additional agency because it would cost a lot more taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57632	Thank you. And the last replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57633	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, the state's mistrust in local self-government certainly exists, and I will say here that much greater mistrust of local self-government exists in state institutions and that rightly so. It's very interesting to listen here to the debate on the topic of local self-government, which is mostly guilty of everything, and realistically looking at the music that's coming from here, or across the street from this square, but the guilt is on it. It doesn't matter that local self-government lives with people, it doesn't matter that she sees the problems daily, it doesn't matter because someone here says local self-government is wrong. Maybe the 20% you talked about and the people who are going to do this job and this new agency that will be successful probably as well as the State Agricultural Land Agency, maybe something like that, maybe that 20% doesn't come as well as maybe the efficiency of the office in the area for issuing building permits smaller and weaker maybe for some other reasons. Maybe citizens don't have legalization, there may be room in Croatia where people can't pay for it, where they can't even get a loan to pay for what they should be. Then I'm just asking a question, you were a minister, and what if the agency won't have to deal with where they'll get people at the agency's pay if local self-government is that. offices at local level do their job where people at the agency will get paid?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57634	Replica response, Honored Representative Branko Bačić:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57635	Thank you, Mr. President. You are the mayor of the city, you know best how and how your city administration works, but we can ask the question how happy the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are with the work and services of existing state agencies. It would be interesting to have such an examination of the public change as the existing state agencies are close to the citizens, how quickly they resolve their demands, and then to be able to take such a hearty stand for another state agency. And by the way, maybe Mrs. Secretary could tell us how many of the 8022 requests were completed by those same offices if they could handle the chronological order. Because I am sure that in the last two, three months before the deadline for the application of illegally built buildings is very, very large number of requests that have only been sent without further necessary documentation, so that a large number of these requirements, namely at this point, cannot even solve single administrative departments, but can only be directed to foreigners under the wall to supply the necessary documentation within the appropriate time limit. Thus, this 20% of the number of complete requirements would be more realistic picture of the number of cases solved than this of a large number where I am sure that the huge number of requests only contains the number of properties, the number of plots, contains the necessary administrative fee and there is no d. Therefore, in the time ahead while these requirements are being completed there will be time to arrive at the solution of such a huge number of requests submitted by the end of June of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57636	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57637	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It's always a pleasure to go out for a pay phone when I can say something commendable in the law as much as I get the impression that I enjoy critics, it's not. The logical question is, there are 200 agencies, do we need another agency? I said there's an agency that seems to be calling me, that's what my colleague Novak will know is the name for the safety of rail traffic or something like that, mostly an agency where they say they're not in charge of traffic safety because they haven't teamed up yet, there are a few years. Why do I believe in this agency? She could have a different name, just because she's head of the agency, the head of the administration will be Minister Taritash, I trust her. When I entered politics actively began to deal with politics then they told me no, senior colleagues don't believe in anything in politics, but not believing people means sleeping with an open eye. What the minister has done so far, and the way she's acting and the moves she's making have simply won my trust and our trust, now I speak for the club, and we will support this law because we think this is a logical law I repeat, that this law of the ministry has been forced to write. This is where he wants to argue with parliamentary deputies who don't feel the same way with members of local self-government, like we don't trust them. We say they're lazy, they're inefficient. That's not what anyone here said. It's just that things have shown for a moment that they need help. I realized this agency, I was listening to Mrs. Secretary, so let the minister tell me if it's not that this agency is helping local self-government. If the local self-government is going to work well, then the agency won't be able to take over any of the other signs here clearly when the agency comes into effect. We have recognized here in the Croatian Parliament we actually received the data 800 and some thousands of illegally built objects for decades that have been built. You know well that some of the countries of the northwest don't know what illegal construction is and you know well that in some countries the first illegal constructions were recorded when people from these areas came, settled in their countries. 800 thousand illegally built objects, it's probably many reported illegally built stairs, closing logs of many 800 thousand certainly hundreds of maybe and 200 thousand would have been written a solution without the need for people, but the first time the conscience woke up and people said let's legalize it. Every honor and former government that she has said we will draw the line, that and that date we will try to legalize what can be legalized and after that date anything that has been illegally built, which is illegally built. I hope, the minister will pass the test not only by carrying out legalisation but also by keeping the word that everything that is after seems to me 30.6. In 2012, built, the 11th pardon that will collapse. If it doesn't collapse then in ten, twenty years, we'll have 800 thousand illegal objects again because people will have the word, it's just threats, legalized just to fill the budget and we can continue to build illegally. Legalization of illegal construction is apart from the legal and purely moral issue, and it is with legalization that many citizens have come into an unbalanced position, which? Those who took out building permits in time, those who paid on time, who gave up much to build up what was in the law. It is irrefutable and today they are asking me many who have raised our hand to legalise illegal construction we have received great minuses in their voters, some not in all, because they said you are fighting for inequality. We have also supported this law by trying to make it impossible for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia 400, 500 thousand objects in which people live to bring down, that we are not rich enough country and that we have done wrong by that act, by that law. But we'll be right if we draw the line. If this ministry will insist on what started, I repeat, on behalf of the Croatian Labourists, there is no mistrust with local self-government. The local self-government, what was happening in the field, has shown that it needs help. The ministry gave its hand, and now they'd tell me, that given hand is not the state's trust with local self-government. Then someone said a little while ago, and there's no local self-government with the state, no mutual mistrust, so now you're fighting over it. Not to be too long, the Labourers were going to ask for a three-hour break until the game was over and then Niko Kovac came to us. Labourists will support this law, one of the few times a law that is welcome, one of the few laws that the practice has implemented because this is the law of practice and the ministers will be remembered in Croatian politics if you implement it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57638	Thank you very much. One replica of respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57639	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is colleague Vuksic, you have realized that the agency is helping units of local self-government and that may be good thinking. The only thing I'm not clear about right now is whether or not you think there was talk here about hiring 160 people, whether or not you as a representative of Croatian Labourists think there are no engineers in those announced cancellations in Croatian roads, Croatian highways, Croatian railways that might temporarily be distributed to these jobs, and then you wouldn't be burdening Croatian citizens again because these 20% that go for wages and these costs will again be paid by Croatian citizens. I would probably just like to draw your attention to one other thing here, so as in many other things Croatia cannot look at in this problem with the same eyes, it is not the same legalizing object somewhere, some cottage at sea, some building building in the city or somewhere in the Croatian village. So it must be a problem for you to have a problem that the people who said Mr. Bacic did not meet the requirements, they do not bring in documents because they do not have the means to go into legalisation at all, they have made a request to simply protect themselves from being destroyed, and that is one problem, and we should really do that analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57640	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57641	Here I'm going to start at the end that we need to run an analysis, an analysis of what, first there's a register, which is a great thing to see what's been illegally built. I completely agree with you. I do not agree with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or I am loud enough to be critical to the Government. The government didn't admit there were too many people in the state administration, she didn't admit there were too many people in local self-government, she thinks there might be less. I agree with you, those extra people need to be redistributed, there's a lot of engineers. I hope this won't be, now for the first time, no one's said in this debate so far, it won't be infatuating party comrades because if it is then neither will the minister be able to implement it because then it's not professional people, then it's another prank again and I believe it won't be, that there will be redistributions, that there will come professional people who will do it. If we end up legalizing in time we've made how much it costs to cost, we've done a great job. We can say Croatia is clean, there are no illegal objects. I hope that's the point. I have faith now, it'll show time someone said let's discuss it in a year, a year will pass quickly. I also hope that this assistance to local self-government, that no one wants to degrade, disabling local self-government because it has no right to do so, because it is also against the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that the Minister and the Ministry of Civil Engineering are going to help, and besides, in the law, it says, if the units of local self-government are going to fulfil their tasks that the agency will not, I hope that these people will be on the contract, that they will be people on aid, that this will not 160 new jobs will be opened and 160 people who will remain in the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57642	Thank you very much. I don't know what it's like in Baku, but I expect it to be described. The sequel follows - HDSSB's Club of Representatives and Honorable Representative Igor Čeek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57643	I would like to thank the Honorable President, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's because it's about too late. I'll be very short. What to say about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings with the final draft law. First of all, we at the HDSSB Club have long warned about problems related to illegally built buildings and have advocated practically free legalisation, especially legalisation of agricultural facilities. But here we start an agency, the villains would say we have a series of agencies, so why not have a gap. That I might agree with them in part. Your explanation shows how many claims 8022 thousand have been received and how many requests have been resolved and there you could support the establishment of agencies because you intend to resolve as many requests as possible. However, the two things why we cannot agree on the establishment of this agency is your opinion practically about officials working in the county and the cities when you have practically stated that they are traditionally lazy and that they cannot do their job I believe they are not, that they have a large range of work and that they really need time to do the job. And another reason why we can't support this law for centralization. So it is an agency that will have a centre in Zagreb, we are not aware whether it will be dislocated or whether the employees of the agency will work in the counties and larger cities. So that's our second observation to this law because we're interested in how you think to increase the percentage of completed employment requirements by talking about 160 people, about 160 people and a month ago said that you should hire about 500 people to get rid of those demands. So my numbers aren't in proportion. I have to get back to that centralization agency. So, what every referent must do when he receives the request, so first of all he has to go out in the field and take the measurements if I'm not mistaken, and that's where the referents face the same problem. However, if they have to, as counterpart Bačić has practically checked out the subject from his office and signed it into the Zagreb agency, the consummation of this law must come to Zagreb, from Dubrovnik, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, insignificant. So if this agency is centralised and located in Zagreb, the HDSSB Club will not be able to support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57644	Thank you, Your Honor. We will now move to an individual debate of representatives in the Croatian Parliament for ten minutes. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57645	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Ms. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. Perhaps this bill was a logical continuation of the possibility to legalise illegally built buildings in Croatia which we can also reduce, and the importance that it was closed balconies, canopies and so it was enough, it was too much. And the problem hasn't arisen since yesterday, he dates back to socialist times if not before and there was no will or strength to solve the problem. It is good, therefore, that this problem and that you have only done so, it is enough for the whole mandate, so it has not only passed the law but through the legislation that you take matters into your own hands and that you follow how things are going and that things have not been very well done, we have seen it in this analysis according to the number of cases solved by employees who are working on special legalisation that everyone has clearly received along with this bill all the MPs. Of course, it stands in one general, one does not object to this law, so the objections that have been heard by colleagues Branko Bačić and other colleagues, they kill themselves, not to say this bill, but these are one reflections that we can all agree on, which is a matter of administration reform and I will only say with a few sentences, perhaps it is necessary to stress this and this time, so the question of whether and on this legal matter, on this proposal of the law, it was seen. So does the constant question, do we have, is our administration, do we have too many civil servants and officials or do we have too few, just as much as the social relations that are more complex from day to day and we know that every new law imposes on the state administration. It's something that's actually waiting for us. To do a deep recording of our administration at a state level and even more so at a local level and it is certain that somewhere our personnel are deficited as it is visible to solve this problem, somewhere there are too many, people are employed we will not return to that old topic, there are but there are no people who can respond to certain specific tasks like this job. Especially when that job doesn't put up with the delay. But even if we didn't have any backlogs like this one huge job, these are one extraordinary occasion or the troubles in which Croatia found itself wanting to solve this problem. Therefore, both the people who are located and who are assigned by individual units of local self-government cannot handle it at their best even if they all work at full capacity with, without these extras, why, why, whether they are not organized or not, as some have done, there are people who know, can and will and will not be taken away from them by the agency, but rather, will be able to do their job nicely. I wish they could accept the other cities, other municipalities, other cities and county. So I'm not going to talk about it anymore, so we've got enough people somewhere and we're missing them somewhere, we've got a huge number somewhere. What a qualification structure it may be you on this side know better than we do. As an MP in the opposition, I waited for six years of data on how many employees there are in the state administration and I never met him, it was always one general number, not according to the ministry. But now it's not a question of numbers, it's a question that we have, can they, can the state administration, can the administration at local level meet the needs of citizens to work regularly, regularly, regularly. I'll just point out, I often point out that one Austria doesn't know what the silence of the administration is. She also spent several years ago a pilog program, a project realizing that some engines as they call them in the administration are working and that others are whispering, and they've determined that people will be paid even though it's not fair that in the same pay grade, therefore those who do the same jobs have the same salary, so we're going to reward them by the number, that's something that follows us inevitably, I think you'll all agree. It's the greatest justice for people to be paid as many cases as they can solve. And what happened after a few days began to break into each other's closets and steal objects to solve them, so one lawyer in the state administration works less, when he becomes a lawyer fighting to get objects because he lives out of it. If he hasn't earned it, there's no crybaby here what my legendary colleague Kosor said I'm sitting here and the crying girl is running and the crying girl is going. So that's the thing about how many people wanted that problem that's just about to be solved and corporated here, but that's not what this is about. This is about these items, that these things have to be solved as soon as possible. The easiest thing would be, the state did its part, it passed the legislative framework. It's the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, not getting rid of it, it's not our fault, it's not because the government is always responsible. The central government is also responsible for the judiciary even though it cannot be mixed. She's important and responsible for local self-government units. I think that's how the responsible government behaves, when you're responsible for something, then you're responsible for everything, and not like we've had before, responsible for everything, and responsible for nothing. So we've made a different turn, we consider ourselves responsible. The government is considered responsible for the functioning, especially the process that started here on the law of these buildings, and it wants to implement it. There are unfounded objections that say we interfere in this business and so on. So I won't work and I won't let anyone else work, it's communist philosophy. I don't give it to anyone else and I won't. So there's this, there's a way to get to that. I won't last any longer, it's more or less said. I just want to end up with the government, especially in this cabinet headed by the minister, with his associates knowing what he wants and what's most important he knows how.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57646	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate, honourable representative Josip Boric and your ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57647	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's what I'm gonna say about this law. The agencies are a well-known thing in this country. Croatia is a state agency, at least if we have something, we have an agency, we can't even count them because there are different data, but in these two years there's only one, the Investment Centre. So this is now the second that it's going to be, it's probably going to be the same or the same as the center. Some are also colorful names, we have a pressure equipment agency or even better for spaces threatened by an explosive atmosphere. Maybe she'd be busy in this assembly, too, but it just seems to me that these agencies have become some kind of superminister body, superminister bodies that we often don't know what they're doing or who they're responding to, what they're dealing with, we're just getting absurd. For example, the Agency for the Development of the Railways Market protects HZ itself from HZ, so it protects Croatian railways from the Croatian railways themselves, it is a fundamental task to resolve complaints within the same company that has a monopoly in the Republic of Croatia. But what's interesting is what's been said a lot lately, which is that directors, officials in those agencies, are much better paid than those in the ministries, and those in the ministries are giving them jobs. Those are interesting facts. That's how it's going to be now, so the Department of Protection is going to start that agency, give them a legal job, and then they take somebody else's job, the county offices, and of course they found themselves, 160 jobs are there. Now how's that 160 going to fill in if it's like in this Investment Center, then it's going to be a more or less uniform, party uniform. But we have to hope for a positive one. I tried to find the number of the agencies, so now it depends on how you look. They say we have an official 68 agencies and some institutions, but when the state archives and public institutions are added, which are also state bodies, then it grows to 184. Now, if we look at only these agencies and seduce them, they have about 10 grand and 500 employees who spend a billion kuna a year. And when we increase it to these 184 then it doubles immediately and we have 22,000 employees and it increases the triple in wages, triple. So according to this HDSSB colleague, this agency is moving on, we had 184 so who would be bothered by this 185. She continues down as he says as azonism. And it's a shortcut that will be heard more and more in this next period until 2013 because we heard we're going to finance ourselves nicely, the more it does, there's going to be more money. If she doesn't, there won't be any money. Even though it's legal, I think the distribution has been settled. You know how many states, how many counties, how many local self-government. If the state voluntarily gives up its money and spends it on the salaries of those who will be hired to think about it. Now that other problem, how will you work new compared to these offices we now have. I've already tried to explain that, if I do less, you'll be working more at that agency. If you work harder, I'll do the other one less or we can go the other way. I'll put in an example, the worst county of Sisak-moslavina is only 3% of the cases solved on 31.10. What I managed to find here. They're not around, let's go. 3% of each other, they're close, so we deal with everything and we don't solve problems. But why is that? Did we get into that problem? Well, it's no problem to settle a full request, I think it lasts at least, we agree. The problems in that part that occurred in the last month of the deadline when people nicely met that one paper, two tax marks and were created at once by an additional few hundred thousand items. That's where the problem came from. Whether the problem will be solved by 160 employees unless the person interested in legalisation submits all the necessary documentation by 2016, his problem will not be solved for how many three or four years. I don't think any of those 160 can solve his problem until that paper or the paperwork is complete. Then that's where the Croatian citizens come in. As they waited a few years for them to just put one piece of paper out of every tax mark for lack of money, they will wait for both these three and four years the last chance when they are forced to deal with it and then we will get rid of these 160 employees who may at some point be out of work because we know what the situation is with Croatian citizens' money. 2900 today's blocked accounts. It's not because they have money, so they won't pay. And legalization isn't cheap work. We know how much it costs, and I'm sure what I'm saying is that this is going to take up to the last year, if someone doesn't find out again and extend the duration or value of that law in some subsequent period. So in the end, I'm going to conclude that no matter how we've heard these days, we're a deeply divided people, and all of us are determined for and against. I'll be against this law because I don't see a solution to the more practical part of it and that's how to find the means to hand over the full documentation to get rid of the request.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57648	Thank you very much. It's time for the Honorable Representative, Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57649	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. Here's a lot of people on this topic, I'll try a little later on from another angle. Of course, 820 thousand, 822 thousand unsolved items or demands that you want to speak first of all about the terrible situation in space, the second is that it is necessary to do so, third data speak only 6% in this period of time, and from those who welcome the adoption of this law, or the amendments and additions to this law, because we will therefore solve the situation in space and we will generously fill someone's said state budget, I would also say city budgets and municipal, thank God and county, and I can say that we will fill the budget when it comes to Croatian waters or the Ministry of Agriculture. What we're eating here is about 160 people, 100 people, 80 people, or how many there will be. There will be as many as we can be effective at the level of local self-government units. I don't think there's anything to argue about. There may not be a single man, everyone does their job at the level of units of local self-government or regional administration and there is no need for any of the agencies. As far as these norms are concerned, 20, 35, 50, 65, that's all right. I'd just maybe there if I had to say it myself on the board, and I repeat here to make a commitment to the ministry somewhere, or more specifically, to apologize to the agency, to make a commitment somewhere within which time she's going to solve those items because she's already six months late. Let's put it that way when he gets some information as far as it's done at a lower level. So I won't talk much about what the predecessors said. I'll tell you why I think the results are so relatively weak. It is that there are discrepancies but there is also a lack of interest, there is certainly also a problem of personnel and staff problems at the level of local self-government units and of course there is a financial moment because we must not forget for a moment. Not only are citizens and legal persons to say so, or are companies that will be subject to this law, but the special units of local self-government that, indeed, have a lot of objects that do not comply with the law and that will have to be harmonised and certainly that in local self-government units there is one problem in how to find the money. So they have to pay, there's not only that fee, there's your communal contribution, there's a water contribution, etc. A statist, an architect, all there is is what in some way requires and certain financial resources but I would like this one. The most suffering is the one who won the election at that parole one kuna legalization, now it's going to come out on their noses but my God, what they've been looking for, they've got it. What I would say and before me she called it in one replica was called by her colleague Ingrid, so she said fellow MPs must congratulate the minister on this move. I'll be the one to congratulate you on the secretary. I'll congratulate you for having the courage, the responsibility, but I'm sorry to say nose to do this. We're going to solve this, one interaction has agreed, we're going to solve the situation in space, but we're going to provide or you're going to provide extremely significant resources to the state budget. If someone asked me now let's choose which place the minister would like, I would choose yours because you'll be in the budget of this account if you take that one item on average is about 4000 kuna for now and we assume that those big fish haven't even come into play yet that comes out somewhere around your brother's 4 billion circus brother, 50% are the two billion that go into the state budget. A billion and 800 go to the local self-government unit and a billion and 200 for those who will do the job. So I would like to invite all units of local self-government to get ready as soon as possible and take that money because that billion 200 is nothing compared to 160 employees for a certain time every two years. So take the money on the local self-government unit at least what you can take, and that's what's going to be an estimated billions of 200 now, and it's going to be safe and sound. And I think we should get organized down there so much the agency doesn't absorb the funds because the agency's gonna have to pay those employees, and there's gonna be still money left on top of that. So everything depends on those down at unit level of local self-government and administration. And once again, congratulations on interactions have worked out that she couldn't have done better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57650	Thank you, Your Honor. There's a respected colleague, Vesna Fabiančić Križanić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57651	Thank you, well-respected President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. By passing the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, we were unique in the intention of legalising as many illegally built buildings as possible. The goal that we want to achieve, therefore, is the legislation that makes the greater number of illegally built buildings certainly not a 16-year-old route, because then it certainly raises the question of what is the purpose of the law with such ineffectiveness. The dynamics of solving objects certainly do not go in the direction of a reasonable period. A large number of 820 thousand received items and solved only 50 thousand or 6% of cases require reaction and search for mechanisms that will be in the service of achieving the intensity of the law. I support every quick resolution effort, so I will vote for these amendments and additions, but of course I have some questions I would like to hear the answers to. I mean, I have some dilemmas and these dilemmas are what this debate in this House of Commons was about. In this law, the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings of local self-government units and units of the district self-government has given them additional responsibility to achieve additional funding. We heard from you that we take the agency as help and after I got a member of the Committee on Legislatives, like everyone else, I really understood it as help and what you said was 20% in October, that there was a unit of local self-government that solved 20%, according to that table in September was only 5 units that were approaching that 20%, so 5 units had more than 15%. But I wouldn't talk in this debate about how much I would talk about the last column of that table, and you know what I'm talking about, but I'm going to point out this specifically for my colleagues, personally HDZ colleagues, who in their debate very often pointed out that we can't compare offices, that it's different terrain, whether there are vehicles available, that the government is centralizing the affairs of local self-government, that the state has no confidence in the units of local self-government. The local has both knowledge and personnel, that this is auto-destruction, I didn't answer for replicas because I knew that in the debate, I would look back at all this together, how local self-government was found incompetent. I'd love you to, given that I really consider you competent for the work you're doing, to tell us how possible it is and not to talk about the percentages, but the number of cases. One town of Bjelovar has an average of the requirements solved per employee 211 and the city of Vinkovci 20. Is that a mistrust with local self-government units? If one employee in one local self-government unit solves 211 cases and one solves 20 cases or we go to completely similar units of local self-government. Two large cities that have almost identical population and which have similar ide can thus say urbanally solved space, Slavonski Brod and the town of Velika Gorica. In the town of Slavonski Brod the average requirements for the employee are 87 and 45 in the town of Velika Gorica. What's this about? Is that underestimating local self-government? That's the way to solve the case. How to punish, so the state can't punish local employees. I would like us at the Croatian Parliament to at least understand what we are talking about, as well as when we talk about the public administration being too bulky and that we can redistribute the employees. Well, I guess the leaders of the local self-government that also happens to be a colleague of Hrgs know that we can't hire each profession on the affairs of a management consultant who will handle legalization because it's exactly what profession it is. It can only be a graduate builder, a graduate civil engineering engineer or a graduate architect or a graduate lawyer. There are no third, fourth or sixth professions that can do this and must have a certain number of years of employment on the same or similar jobs. So it would be good and the table just shows that in an extremely good way you've detected the situation in local self-government units, which units of local self-government can respond to this, not because I agree that there is a unit of local self-government that is not capacitated, I absolutely agree, and that's a big problem. That's why I took that last column that says how much an average employee per unit of local self-government solves administrative cases. What surprises me in the whole story is that the local self-government and regional self-government unit is not interested in finding mechanisms that their employees will handle multiple cases and thus fill urban and regional budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57652	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Dear Representative Branko Hrg has a replica on your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57653	Thank you, Mr. President. I thought the agency that founded her was a state agency colleague. I didn't realize she was a local agency, and now you've been a little incomprehensible to me. So my proposal to get out of so-called. The government's over-moving public administrations are redistributing employees to the state agency, but if you say this is a local agency, then I was wrong. But I am glad that here today I have heard from your ranks that there will be no structural reforms, that there will actually be no reorganisation of public administration and that the public administration is just how much more people should be or should be employed. That's what I've been able to figure out from your presentation, maybe I'm wrong, but that's what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57654	Replica response, respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57655	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Hrg, I think you've understood me very well. For example, the public administration included then, the current DUDI or the State Office for State Property Management, the former central property management office, before then the font, of course, is very bulky. But you know, previous administrations used to hire there to deal with legal issues of politicians and creditors and not to list other professions. Well, you don't think that this trustee who's employed in DUDI would solve the legalization of the facilities. That's what I believe you didn't mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57656	Thank you very much. We're going to discuss an individual agent. It is up to the honourable representative Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57657	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is that it is a very important law amongst other things that has shown not only today's debate but also the debate when we discussed the bill's proposal and great interest and, please, it shows this and still shows a decent number of MPs here, it has a lot to do with the assembly and in 15 minutes it seems to be a very important game for our team, which also brings us to the point that we are discussing the law here of exceptional importance. Unfortunately, it is also a law whose provisions and decisions cannot be satisfied and impossible to bring it by consensus so that I do not know who prepared and proposed it. I also believe that the provisions of this law are also shared by our citizens. And surely, in one way, they look at all our fellow citizens, or our citizens throughout the Republic, who have created and done what is said honestly from their wages and from their earnings and who have never done anything but have not done it legally, that they have not removed all construction and all other permits and if they were asked and I know reliable about their thinking then they may not be able to support the provisions of this law completely or not understand until the end of the need for adoption and legislation and even these amendments. I don't think it's hard for me to apologize to them again. But also, with this sincere apology, I also show a public regret to these and to those citizens. It was said here today in the debate and I know that Mrs. Secretary is deeply aware because she was talking about all this when she was defending the draft law and later on this complete problem. I'm sorry that many of the speculators who took advantage of it today were going to talk about those categories of why there was even illegal construction, so someone mentioned 4 categories there, so you remember in the first one, the first two categories were the slowness and ineffectiveness of the administration or public administration, so I don't know the lack of plans, etc. We know that it was mostly those speculators or how to call them who just used that fact to illegally build and now I'm sorry that in this way they're going to cheaply legalize it. But please, on the other hand, I am again pleased to think from that category that Mr. Mandic spoke of it from third and fourth to so say which are family, social, etc. again, some of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have also worked their whole lives, built out of some kind of salary, credit card along with a nice basic building permit that went but were later upgraded, the mother-in-law came, the mother-in-law, had a baby, had a son or daughter-in-law, and it had often been without any appropriate permits. For them, I am pleased that in this way they will be able to finally legalize their facilities, which means they have been creating all their lives, and eventually this will have neat papers. When we talked today about the amendments and the additions to this law, about these two basic things about the register and about the agency, it seems to me that around the register is a full consensus I don't remember even though here I followed the full debate I think we all supported it. Now, when it comes to the agency, there are objections. And I was myself among those who turned my head when I first heard a proposal about the establishment of this agency. And here I was also thinking about what's here today and said by some MPs and MPs. However, I did not reternize but by studying the problem, the law itself, listening to the explanation and especially looking at the analysis, I noticed a significant trend. I don't know if anyone said anything about it today. When you're looking at this analysis because, please, this is 53 units of regional or local self-government since we have 550 of these right now, I don't know the number in the Republic of Croatia by heart. So when we look at that analysis, the 53th unit of the local self-government unit. What you notice, the ones above average. Here, take it to be some base of seven and more percent, that's about 25 units of local and regional self-government. You know how many counties there are, three other cities. Cities either by law these great cities, any cities that were given special authority of these jobs, and there exactly and I also deny Mr. Bačić that because later I could no longer respond to my replica, but I gave him a good clagvort to answer what was right for him and not for what my question was when I said a nice alibi, which is an alibi of the unit of local self-government which, no alibi, but they are hostages just not doing those certain of their countys. It's not a mistrust in those units of local self-government, it's just trust, and that's why I became a supporter and advocate. Not only will I support this law, but this agency. The more we heard today that this introduction of regular check-in, regular controlling if I do not cheat every 6 months that it is not competition good and successful even the more it remains and the minister explicitly emphasized that it has trust in the work of management and that first of all the cases are solved in offices and where the matter is blocked will react to the agency. And someone was counting here today, and I think it's been there for 16 years, so one average was taken. I wonder what would happen to these local self-government units that have 2%, they're currently somewhere at 2.5% that they've solved so far. Well, it would take them more than 16 years if I weren't mistaken. We're talking about the whole country being arranged, aren't we? We are not just talking about the average and the best, we are interested in asking for it once, to take it down as a part of the agenda, and that the whole country is being arranged not only because we are in the EU, but first because of us, because of our children, and because of what we should leave behind for future generations. I've made good use of the time, Mr. President. I'll give you two minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57658	Thank you, and I'll buy you a cup of coffee. But we have three replicas on your exhibit. [[Thank you very much. I'll take that.]] The first replica is the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57659	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Kovacic, you encouraged me to react when you said that not everyone can be satisfied with such a solution, that they will always be satisfied and dissatisfied but that I belong to a group of those who are deeply unhappy about such laws. This law is due to the long-term systematic construction of illegal activity. This law is a waste of the rule of law, this law is a splash to an honest man, this law is a mockery to all those who respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia and who lived in that harmony. And of course they cannot accept peacefully that they are punished without rewarding those who have systematically violated the law for years. This is a reward for the wrong and a punishment for the wrong. From that aspect, it is understood to all of us who view the law as such. But the problem has arisen and needs to be solved and I also accept it. But I can't help thinking that this law is a cover-up of everything that's been done, a cover-up. And that no one ever touches anything that's ever been done wrong again. What about the ones I've been covering for years? It didn't happen to happen. What about those who've been monitoring all the work might be at the agency tomorrow. So no one has been punished for so many illegal constructions throughout Croatia from south to north. No person has ever been punished. Maybe now she'll be rewarded, and we'll put her in the agency. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57660	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Replicate response, respected representative Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57661	I thank you again, Mr. President. Well, I didn't say with a solution like this, I did when I said we couldn't all be satisfied with our public. If anyone had offered a solution, that is the area of business, that is, such a law that is impossible to bring by consensus and that everyone is satisfied, so the emphasis is with such a solution. I just don't think there's a good solution. Well, partly for these reasons that you later spoke of. And I mentioned in my debate that I especially want to go after that part of Croatia, that part of our citizens who have been creating, working, working, working honestly, out of their salaries, I am a witness to it, I am alive and working alone in the wood industry. I know how people created, how they said it out of their mouths. What kind of work action was it, how it was built and created. The streets are called the streets of eternal debtors, etc., later inflation has done something. Well, that's what we're talking about, and it's very difficult. And I'm sorry, too, and I'm sorry about all the bad guys who used this, the speculators, not to use a harder word, even though I think you've gone a little too far in the qualifications of some other but bad guys and those who have committed crimes, so they don't get too old overnight. And I still hope that and that it is possible to process it. And first of all, I have nothing to do with it, but I just hope that this country's institutions will do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57662	A new replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57663	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovačić, I am pleased that you have managed to convince yourself that this is a good solution. So, from the debate in principle, it could be said that this law could be passed with a lot of support in Parliament, only now I am asking you a question here in this search for a reason to support it whether you too believe that in those extra employees spoken of in Croatian roads, Croatian highways, Croatian highways, there are no construction engineers and other professions needed for this which could be redistributed from the state-owned company to the state agency and thus help this business and not employ new people. For me, it's just a fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57664	Replicate response, respected representative Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57665	I'm paying for coffee, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57666	I write, I write.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57667	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think so, I don't think you're right, Mr. Hrg. For what? I know from practice examples, until recently here at some employment offices there were no engineers, I'll talk to the old, graduated engineers of the construction profession, no engineers, we've been looking at the recent architects, geodetics, there wasn't any. That doesn't mean that, I'm talking about the problem of local self-government units because I don't know that there's a surplus of these personnel, because if it was that excess, if it was conjuncture, there'd be them then and by these administrations, right? And there was once again hitchhiking, and now I think that the situation is partly changing and that the opportunity is additional for the agency as well. It seems to me because I know that here, in my employment office, these experts have just appeared now. Is it possible, so probably, but to transfer some people maybe, but I'm afraid of a small percentage, in a small percentage. And let's go open without the figs in our pocket. The man who works, you mentioned Croatian waters, you mentioned roads, railways etc., works there for 30, 35 years, 20, 25, is he ready to do quality work now in this agency. I agree that one part is good and that's what you'd want. But not enough. And here they are, not sweet worries, but here's the ministry's concern. I don't believe until the end that such a fine rationalization is possible, and yet Mr. Hrg makes me laugh, so here's my reaction, although it's too serious. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57668	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57669	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Kovačić, I had no intention of contacting you until you called me because you misunderstood me. So, I, in my presentation, have never particularly advocated and defended Croatian counties in relation to large cities or other cities that carry out these tasks in the area of spatial order. Therefore, me and the county and local self-government units are both cities and municipalities in the same relationship. In all my performances in this House, I suppose you've already noticed, I object to the centralization of the affairs that so far, any government, by any law, have left to the local self-government unit. And no one in this House can convince me, the government can't convince me that a graduate architect or a graduate builder who will be employed by the agency will do better than a graduate architect who is employed in the Primorje-Gorski County. Because if the architect or the builder in Sisak-Moslavina County does a bad job or better than he does the same colleague at the agency, then it's the head of local or regional self-government. And so we can't because in some county we're not satisfied with doing the jobs that are given to that county to punish the whole county and complicate the lives of the citizens of that county, and I'm sure this law will make these people more complicated and you'll see that the subject from your Ivanic town goes to Zagreb and then we'll hear whether there will be part of the parties who are in this process life complicated in the part that relates to the adoption of that solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57670	Replica response, respected representative Boris Kovacic. Another cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57671	Thank you very much. I'm afraid we didn't understand each other until the end. This part of the work performance can agree on how to respond to work tasks and obligations in a good way. However, when we continue to talk about centralization, I am for decentralisation and for changing the municipal system and county as they are, so if you want to go to the Parliament, I'm going this far. However, when this part does not work, and it does not work, it shows statistics, and shows the practice so far please nice so there are problems from before with the issue of construction and location permits, it is nothing new. I just asked you in the replica why these cities and municipalities that tried to make notes, tried to do something, didn't get consent, were now hostages in these and such inefficient counties. That was my basic question. And I think that then this answer that I agree with you that belongs to a centralized phenomenon, is, but if it's economical and to help these cities and municipalities, it's no longer county, then I'm also here for that solution. And I'm afraid we didn't understand it until the end, obviously, and we still have to discuss it with coffee. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57672	Thank you, too. It is next to the honourable deputy president of Dom Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57673	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister with an associate. In fact, I view this law as a logical sequence of laws or a series of activities that the minister has when we discussed the basic bill and announced, on the trail of the people who want to do something will find a way, who doesn't want to invent a reason. In this debate, I was offered a number of the thesis of my colleagues: mistrust with local regional self-government, centralisation, why the establishment of agencies, why the introduction of a register, so the story of employees in offices was also cityal, whether countyal, and I was particularly motivated by the debate of colleagues Bačić. I think I'm right when I say that he confirmed with his argument it's hard to defend indefensible, and it's even harder to be against something against his beliefs, professionally speaking. This is one technical law, and as I have initially said a logical sequence of what has been announced in the basic debate in presenting the basic draft law, and as I said, I will base my debate on these issues. First of all, the government's mistrust with local and regional self-government definitely doesn't stand. That's what I've been saying for many years as head of local self-government and I'd be happy and grateful if there were more agencies and such laws to dissipate me from work and further employment of employees in some things. Well, let's say the office employees. The minister was inaugurated today, and long ago, the office was county or city assumption that they were optimally optimised or capacitated for regular work. By the very logic of things, 800,000 objects lead to simple mathematics that they will not be able to do it, that they will need additional employment or employment of someone else. Also, why the establishment of the agency? Well, the introduction was that there was no other way but to start an agency. We can call it an office, we can call it an agency, anything, but what's extremely important, it's extremely important that this is one of the rare laws, it's a technical law, we know why it's passed, which is a fundamental goal, where very clearly set are deadlines, the control points are set, and we need to see the result, and that's why the register. When you look at the article that speaks, Article 9c(3), which contains all the registers, commendably. Someone may ask if someone has the right to find out who was doing the assessment of authorized engineers, geodettes, etc., yes, of course they do because in the legalization process, I can see that some of them are doing the diameters, the orderly size of 500 kuna, some for 3,000 kuna, some for 1,000, different. How did they do it, did they do it in quality? Who's paying for it? That's what our citizens pay for, and then you'll see who made it, at what price and how it's going to be controlled. The operation of the offices of existing ways. At first I said some offices do excellent work, some less excellent and some very bad. It can be, I'm not always convinced I try to look positively at people who work in the administration, I figure they want to earn their salary and work hard. However, there is a directly responsible leader of local or regional self-government for the efficiency of his office and for the work of people. And this law provides an opportunity, given that what I was saying at the outset is that the only one, very rare that has a sustainability element, so to speak of some self-financing that gives and the means to work for additional employment. If by any chance my city had a building permit office and I'd definitely hire it, I wouldn't ask for an agency to work for me. But my colleague Bacic why? Well, because I control what my people do in the city administration. Yeah, well, since I don't have any of that, then go ahead and get the agency, work, do business. Whether it will be located in Zagreb headquarters, whether it will be dislocated given the regional character or how we let that practice determine it. Let's let practice define that says practice has shown. Namely, why do I believe in this law? So I believe in this law precisely because the practice, which is the analysis by the minister and with these statistical indicators, on efficiency, I agree that maybe the data on the number of cases solved by reference and the items are different type and character and there may be certain differences. What I certainly cannot accept, I say, and especially I have been offered because I have read, you will not blame me for having been against something that you deeply believe is good, that these changes are necessary, that they are technical. You've done the same thing yourself. It's a matter, an area you know very well. And I'm saying, so I kind of feel for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57674	Thank you, too. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57675	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. You have no reason to feel sorry for me, because I am truly saying what I think and it seems to me that you have defended in your presentation indefensible. In any case, however we set the matter in this law, we will eventually agree that what until today is until Friday when we will probably vote this law either in the jurisdiction of the mayor of the coastal-goran even now in a certain part although this county you see is successful and I have singled out the state agency centrally. So there's no dilemma that this is about centralization. Is, in my opinion, she's not even justified because I think local self-government is and has been capacitated without these jobs being taken over by the state. It's another thing. This is about new administration, new administration of something that is already in all the districts and cities being seduced, and now part of the job will be that you, a large number of these items, are being rerouted to the state level. And the third thing I don't know is how you guys can tell me that I'm defending the insecure. There will be an increase in taxpayers' costs here. We'll hear that later, probably in the minister's response, but it won't increase the cost of setting up the agency, and I believe it'll be very soon, that we'll see when the agency starts to work and when we see its costs and fees that are collected so that these jobs can be realised. And as for the register, I don't know who's against it. I think we all supported the establishment of the register. In that part, full support for this amendment to the law when it comes to the establishment of a register.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57676	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Milorad Batinic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57677	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, you're telling your colleague Bacic that local self-government and regionally are well-accepted. Well, then I could ask a question about what they've been doing so far, if they're able to solve these items for a three-year period. It means they didn't have anything to do. I don't think there's any dilemma. Because I say math 800 and some thousands of objects. If the shots were solved in 3 years then what they were doing so far, then they were both the mayors and mayors. That's where you'll have to agree with me. I mean, it's hard to believe what you're saying. I just can't believe it because statistics show otherwise. I trust numbers. I'm an engineer and figures tell me everything the same as you. That an increase in costs, namely what you may have heard or not well-read 20% of the funds the office will be, or the agency is financed from these funds. Offices in the county or in the city are financed from these funds. And I repeat, my mayor, any mayor or mayor will voluntarily leave these jobs to the agency if he is responsible to his citizens, his unit of local self-government. In the shortest time of three years, two and a half, three, three and a half years, that has to be solved. And at the very beginning of the adoption of that law of representation he had a period of validity, a period of duration. There's a key question. And when it comes to a law that lasts for a certain time. So the goal is to legalize then you don't wonder. And the logical sequence is if there's anything I want to do, I'm going to hire people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57678	Thank you very much. End word on behalf of the HNS club, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57679	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. I answered the final word based on what I had the chance to hear, and it really bordered on that Ripley faith or not when it comes to this law. Many laws cause doubts and dilemmas with some of their provisions and part of the content, and even with us MPs who, by the logic of things, support positions. Sometimes we disagree with certain provisions, sometimes some of us, let's just say, it's not hard for me, given my nature, even some things and say and suggest that we don't feel right, but listening to today's debate on this law was just very difficult. Why? Part of the heritage that this government inherited from the previous ones is 822 thousand illegally built objects or numbers that testify to us that every 5 Croats on average own an illegally built facility. Is he the owner? It's not. The very simple mathematics, the approximation that comes from the assumption that each object is an average of 50 thousand euros, you realize that it is worth 40 billion euros or at the present rate of CNB 300 billion kuna lies in a concrete that has no character of property, cannot be sold, cannot be pawned for any developmental, economic credit, any, cannot be put into a normal function either that it is a tourist facility, a house that can have apartments, a craft workshop. In the context of agricultural facilities, such an object cannot be withdrawn from European funds. 90% of the stables in which cows were sleeping, encouraged by the Croatian state from the budget, in which John Deer tractors were parked, also co-financed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the state are illegal facilities. The time of withdrawal of European funds is reduced, at least by the intensive withdrawal of certain types of funds, and we are discussing whether we will establish an institution that will join the fight against this situation, which will give its pain and its contribution to legalising as soon as possible and as soon as possible 822 thousand objects. And we're having a discussion, and we're taking a comment on whether it's going to be called the agency this afternoon. It can also be called a fellow Bačić's intervening urban unit. They can also be called urban commandos, legalization commandos, it doesn't matter. If you apply one method similar to that used in fishing science to determine the age of fish, and the shell is taken and placed under a microscope and you look at those annual rings, so you can read the history of illegal construction in Croatia on Castles. First, a highway was built behind Kaštel, and then a settlement was built behind that highway, and somewhere in the prewar era, a new highway was pulled up on the top of Kaštel. There's a fast road going on here today. So a new settlement was created, the most beautiful gardens of Dalmatia were devastated, the highest quality agricultural land and thousands of illegal objects were created, urbocid. For 20 years, this country has allowed this mess for political reasons and the indecision of ministers, Mr. Bacicu, for 20 years. And today we have a situation that we have to have an additional institution to get there in some real rational time to correct everything that hasn't been done right for decades. And that's a question to some people. We're discussing whether it's called an agency, why another agency. It can be called quite anyway, it could be called in a completely different way, it was just a matter of creativity of the resolution ministry. We're crying over the fate of the local self-government units instead of realizing that we're giving a tool that is able to compensate those who are not capable enough and are not teamed up enough and we can't wait for everyone on this list, and it's unrealistic to expect everyone on this list to line up in a way that we're really effective in reaching the desired imperative, the goal to end this whole story in three, four or five years. And this is really a law in which every responsible politician, and today, for example, everyone could be responsible in relation to some previous days, any responsible politician should support this. The HNS club's gonna do it anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57680	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas on your exhibit. The first replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57681	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Baranovic's first four minutes of your presentation was identical to my presentation when I spoke of this law as minister in 2011. And here we absolutely agree, I don't see what the difference is. You're kind of a little overexcited and nervous when you talk and comment on what I'm trying to say. And by the way, I'm going to tell you that this isn't a problem that dates back to the last 20 years, this is a problem that dates back to when the cadastre and the Earth Book were established. And in particular, the expression of illegal construction came in the 1960s and 1970s when very much was built along the Adriatic coast in the first row and later throughout Croatia. What we're saying here is that, in addition to the 53 agencies that do these jobs in cities that have the right under the law, the county doesn't need another state-owned superintendenty. And we just want to say that and we think that this same local self-government has been trained to handle this job. If the government estimates that she has a small number of employees working in that local self-government so let's give them where it takes 10, 6, 8 how many ministers she finds to be and hires them. And you wouldn't need an agency, you wouldn't need anything. And I wouldn't need another state agency and a more complicated procedure. And nothing else. And there's no difference here in the world, the difference, the anxiety and anything but here we're just talking about some other solution that I guess we have here at this club right to make. And nothing else, and there's no jealousy or anything, I have no idea what you're talking about right now. We're just saying that we have a different approach that this job could have solved 53 small agencies that are in the counties and cities that have the right to do so. And if we don't do that somewhere, let's make it stronger and nothing else, and let's not now create an ad to some agency that's going to be above the agency that's going to know this better than those people who are trained to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57682	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57683	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Bacic, I didn't mention your jealousy, you mentioned it yourself. It is, following your presentations when Mrs. Ana Dark Taritash enters the assembly it is such a single line to be noticed but I did not take the liberty of mentioning it, you mentioned it yourself. Otherwise my personal assessment that Mrs. Taritash was a minister 20 years ago today would surely have a much better situation in space than we have, but that's my free judgment, let me have that right. As far as your theory is concerned, we should have added some employees to all these local self-government units at 53 points. When the ship is in the weather then there is only one captain and we are now in the urban weather and imperative of time that we have to solve the situation in space, legalize these facilities for a number of reasons and allow the person who is completely clear at the top of the pyramid of responsibility for this task Ana Mrak Taritash to have the confidence of this Parliament to use the tools that assess that are the best, most operational, most effective, but not to lose himself to 53 or more of whose... The local self-government more or less motivated leaders of the regional local self-government and that this situation every member of this ship's crew, so 53 sailors, officers and officers on board each plays the role of captain. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That time when we could do so in the context of this problem in such a way as to function spent. We have certain types of objects that we simply have to legalize and we have the imperative of time, of urgency. I find it very strange that some MPs do not understand. I have to express my surprise, it's my right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57684	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57685	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll give up my replica. I can see that my colleague Baranovic is very nervous so he doesn't want to be anymore, but my colleague Bacic mostly said everything I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57686	You don't have a reason either. Shall we proceed with the Minister's final statement? Yeah. Here's the Honorable Minister of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57687	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As I was saying, once again, I'm going to say that legalization is one job, a big deal, that legalization is solved in five stages. We're in phase two now. The first phase was to actually get to our citizens and they're applying for legalization and this large number of requests 822 thousand let me say roughly I'll say it shows that this first phase has been successfully done. The second stage is to organize ourselves, organise 53 offices and organise ourselves in parallel with that and we organize ourselves to be able to go phase three, which is that all our citizens need and must have the opportunity to get their legalisation solution equally no matter where their illegally built building is in the space. Follow us fourth and fifth. The fourth stage are the recovery plans and the fifth phase is the communal excess and every other space that has been devastated by illegal construction. And this law allows for a second phase. What's this about? All of this, amendments and additions to the law are based on numbers. In order for me to make these figures clear, we did the following. I went through all the county and all the cities with my associates in July, talked to all the mayors and all the mayors. September, my associates have visited all the offices, installed the program, this register that's in this law, and why is this register precisely declared in the law? Because some offices don't even want to give up people who fill out the register and let alone fill out the register. That's the facts. And now we're going to talk about numbers, the first Law on Legalisation came into force on August 10, 2011 and was in effect until August 4, 2012 and under that law tens of thousands of applications were submitted. The second law entered into force on 4 August 2012 and 812 thousand laws were handed down by 30 June 2013. By 1 June 2013, 201,000 applications were submitted. My associates in the offices were reviewing the registration numbers, so the order numbers, we've been looking at both classes and roughly rough, 200 thousand demands are complete, 600 thousand requests are incomplete. Of those 200,000 demands, we've solved 57. So this time of 2,000 requests has not been resolved by 140 thousand requests. And since it's about numbers, even though this is the bigger part where the number is pretty important to the one from the game, I'm going to do the other numbers, I'm going to do the comparisons. So we now have data at the hour level, at the hour level we have data from those offices that until the law comes into force voluntarily give us data and when the law comes into force, they're going to have to give us data. We have offices that didn't want to give a single piece of information. I'll cross-reference two counties. They have one 17615 requests and it solved 1739 and the decision per reference was on average 60 and last month they totaled it, last month I'm talking about October, 250 requests. We have a county with 17,000 634 demands. She's solved 420 demands. According to a referendum settled so far, 23 cases, she said in October they themselves said in their plan that in October they would solve 40 cases, they solved 28. We have counties that organized themselves that rented space, hired people and where we see growth on a daily basis. These counties, those cities will continue to work. However, we have counties that have not organised themselves that do not want to say how many cases have been solved so far and which have so far been 20, 23, 25 to 40 cases per reference and so on. The agency we're talking about isn't for those who work. The agency we're talking about is helping those who don't work, and that's how the agency needs to live. Mr. Bacic here spoke about the budget, so 20% of the funds go exclusively for the office's work and can't be used for anything else. So when I was going around cities and counties then I said one thing very simple and very open, and I have to say that we have the exact calculation of which county and how much and which city so far has come to an accurate calculation. And I said the only thing is if you're gonna get organized and you're gonna take those funds and hire people and team up, but if you don't do it, we're gonna do it. A mayor told me very openly and clearly, you can't do it, you won't do it. I told the mayors but we'll do it if we won't wait till the end of 2014 or 2015 to find out that we have 70, 80,000 solved cases and I don't want to be embarrassed and I don't want people to stop me on the street and tell me the next sentence, we've submitted a complete request, we submitted a complete request in January we go to the office and in the office no one will even receive us, they won't tell us at what stage the request is. So the requirements need to be resolved, they need to be resolved in time, they need to be resolved in time. Those who organize themselves, who are now organized I know this moment absolutely who organized themselves, how many other people have been hired and who will be able to maintain this pace. The same way I know those who haven't done it so far. Since 30th of the end of the 11th month, and since 1st December, we will open our website at the level of an hour and will be visible to all citizens in the Republic of Croatia as well as this website open for citizens does not need us working in the ministry, I appreciate that it is necessary for mayors I appreciate that it is needed by mayors who will be able to compare their work with some other work in the way we have done it. When it came to this law and when it was a question in the agency's work, then the honourable representative Bacic said there was one item in the budget. Dear Representative Bačić and I know equally well that this is an item of the means of destruction. These are the funds that are intended to be destroyed, and the funds that are intended to be destroyed go through the transfer of funds that we receive from legalization. So what comes into the state budget from legalisation to the state budget is intended to bring down those who have submitted a legalisation request have received a negative solution, those who have not submitted a request for legalisation, and have a solution for the collapse both primarily and fundamentally, there has been a debate and said that the lawless cities behind 21 June 2011 so the defence line is 21st of June 2011 and that defence line we will protect and make sure that those who, regardless of all this we do in the affairs of fixing the situation in space and further to the space are irresponsibly related. So the figures say everything, that it's not just an absolute number, so it's easier to organize cities and could be organised faster for reasons because it's smaller territory and simpler. We appreciate that the counties could arrange it a little slower, but we already have counties that are organized, the counties that work. Unfortunately, the figures show that we have counties that don't do it properly. So I'm not gonna talk about the register, is that what we all doubt whether or not it is. All offices have an application made at the ministry that is set up for free there. The people of the ministry were to wear them the way they were entered into the app. We are putting analogue input into ISPA now, unfortunately, we still have offices that have their task to enter objects that have not been completed since 1 December will and this application will be open so you will be able to see who, what and how it works. And this agency why now? Just because in six months I don't have to come to this respectable home and say here's the situation is what it is. We are only now organised, we will be organized in time for the majority of the legalisation requirements to be resolved by the end of 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57688	Thank you, too, Your Honor. One replica of respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57689	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Minister, it's all true what you said, but you didn't say it until the end. In fact, you're saying that according to the old law, over 11,000 legal requirements were filed until the entry into force of the new law, and you know very well that when the first law came into force in 2011 it followed the adoption of government regulations that should have been completed by legislation, which is less important. And you know very well that the most important fact is that at the end of the day, it was not until the completion of the completion of the digital orthophoto cards, and that some counties and digital orthophoto cards as a basis for the possibility of legalisation were given only in February 2012, when this government took responsibility for the management of the state and, at the end of 2011, at the end of the parliamentary elections, the then Minister Vrdoljak announced a significantly reduced procedure, a simpler legalisation procedure which encouraged people to submit further requests. As far as that goes, and as far as expenses and expenses are concerned, I don't think we're talking about the same position. I am talking about the position in the budget, planned, in the proposal of the state budget for 2014 on the position of its illegally built buildings is planned in 2013. So this is 780 thousand and next year 13 million and 470 thousand and then in 2015 again only 920 thousand kuna, so I'm talking about that position, not the position you mentioned me to. Here in the end I just wanted to say we agree that this job should be brought to an end only I kept it and I kept it all the time so that this same job could be solved through local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57690	Dear Minister, Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57691	Well, thank you very much. When it comes to these 11 thousand requirements that were filed under the law that came into force in 2011 it is true that a lot of these requests were submitted later because there was no time for the map and all that was needed but then I have to refer to those 11,000 requests. The main of these requirements has been rejected because it was not possible to resolve in accordance with this law and part of them has been exceeded and requested to be resolved under this law, which is regarded as faster, operational, and when it comes to these means, these are the funds that we transfer to the State Geodesy Office for Air Videos because in the Law on Legalisation says 50% of the funds go for the state and that goes down. Re-recording is being done and communal equipment is being done, i.e. returning to local self-government units. This is specifically about the item we immediately showed because we will be doing a digital orthophoto on 2014. So we can compare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57692	Thank you, too. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the treatment of illegally built buildings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 506. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. I would like a representative of the motionor, Deputy Minister of Construction and the spatial arrangement of the esteemed Željko Uhlir, to be shown about the amendments. First of all, the Committee on Legislatives, amendment first to Article 7 of the Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57694	Thank you. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57695	Excuse me, Your Honor, an explanation for the article. Sustained? Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. We're going to the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction Amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57696	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57697	Can you explain in what form?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57698	I can. It is, then, that the Committee has proposed a text which would read as Article 37i. In paragraph 2, the word "legal direction" adds a point and a word: "architectural or building direction". However, because of the wording of the sentence, we suggest that it be accepted behind the word "legal" to place the decimal point and add the words "architectural or building" without the addition of direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57699	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee, the Honorable Representative, Zdravko Ronko, agrees with this formulation. Thank you very much. He's pulling the rest of it. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 87 votes in favour and 13 votes against the adoption of the Amendments and Supplements Act, on the treatment of illegally built buildings in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Now we move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 441. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. These are articles 194.-202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy justice minister respected Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57701	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, for the legal assistance system in civil and administrative matters in the Republic of Croatia, and this law applies to civil and administrative matters because representation in criminal matters has been resolved in a different way. It was established by the 2008 Law on Free Legal Assistance and has been amended. It was changed by the Constitutional Court's decision. The purpose of the system of free legal assistance is to ensure for economically and socially endangered citizens access to justice and all in order to achieve equality of all before the law. The availability of free legal aid shall be part of the right to a fair or fair trial resulting from the provision of Article 6(1). European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights. The analyses carried out on the application of the 2008 Law on Free Legal Assistance have shown that the application is largely inadequate and non-functional due to the complexity of the legal aid procedure due to the narrow circle of users, due to the limited scope of the legal problems which the aid has been granted, due to the stricter property criteria and the inadequate financing system. These conclusions stem from the analysis that we have not only carried out but also from institutions that are active in this segment of the right of trial and also from the recommendations of international experts because we have had a larger IPA project to improve the system of free legal assistance and they have just suggested that we amend the law in the direction in which we went with this proposal. What is a newspaper and we are convinced that it will improve the system of free legal aid is to enable the provision of primary legal assistance in every legal sphere, of course, with the fulfilment of the law provided for, and it is important that we do not have specific property criteria here with primary legal assistance. Therefore, the primary legal assistance will be granted by the citizen who himself does not have sufficient knowledge and skills to exercise his right to whom paying professional legal assistance would pose a threat to supporting him and his family if his legal assistance is not provided by a special regulation and if the request is not clearly unfounded. I swear to you, we have expanded the scope of private legal aid. Therefore, primary legal aid implies general legal information and this is a newspaper compared to the previous system. The primary legal assistance shall provide legal advice, a submission may be drawn up before a public body and a submission before the European Court of Human Rights and international organisations in accordance with the International Treaties and rules on the work of those bodies. Likewise, representation in proceedings before public legal authorities or legal aid in non-judicial settlement, peaceful dispute resolution. Secondary legal aid shall include legal advice, the assembly of submissions in proceedings for the protection of workers' rights against the employer, the assembly of submissions in court proceedings, representation in court proceedings and also legal assistance in the peaceful settlement of the court dispute and the release from the costs of court proceedings and court charges. We tried to expand the circle of users of free legal aid and therefore are users now and foreigners who are on permanent stay with the abandoned condition of reciprocity or reciprocity and in the Republic of Croatia the right to free legal assistance will have every child regardless of who has no Croatian citizenship and who is found without escort in our territory. We have clearly defined authorised providers of primary legal aid. So for primary legal aid, these are offices, authorised associations and clinics and only lawyers provide secondary legal assistance. We have simplified the legal aid procedure for primary legal aid, so it is driven by direct address to the primary legal aid provider. So no special solution is made and no approval procedure is complicated. In the development of a system of free legal assistance, or the right to such assistance, we have done detailed work in view of the importance of the rights to be exercised or protected through the procedure in respect of which the party requests free legal assistance and also in relation to the complexity of the tasks for the exercise or protection of that right. In this respect, in the provisions of Article 13, we have laid down assumptions for the provision of secondary legal assistance both subjectively and objectively, and in the general sense, and in paragraph two, in relation to certain types of procedure and with other sub-sectors, we have developed criteria for approval and again related to the criteria set out in Article 14 which speak of the conditions and, of course, the exemptions to be granted regardless of the property criterion. So we have a situation that the property criterion will not be taken into account at all if it is a child-seeker who is conducting a detention procedure or is a victim of a criminal offence for damages in a procedure where he is making compensation for the damage done to him by this crime. Also further work has been done in relation to the position of the applicant and his opponent because there will be cases that depend on it in fact on the right. So if we're talking about the victim of violence, and she's the applicant, then whoever is the suspect in this act, or who committed violence against the victim, his income will not be considered. It also implemented the mitigation of property criteria for the exercise of the right to secondary legal aid. In this law, we have tried to maximumly shape the project financing system because we think that it is the solution to this situation in which we are in relation to the budget. We have tried and the aim is to establish an efficient system of supervision of professional and responsible legal aid providers. In relation to the draft law adopted in the first reading, nomotechnical and linguistic improvements have been made, proposals given to the parliamentary committees have been incorporated in part or subsequently in the opinions received so that more significant changes are related to Article 13, this is a secondary restriction, therefore, in disputes from family relations, the right to free legal assistance does not exist in all categories of such cases or does not apply to cases of contractual divorce where marriage mates do not have children. Also in Articles 19, 20, 37 and 39, we have installed the costs of artificial interpreters as costs incurred during the conduct of a particular procedure and they need and are now covered by the system of free legal assistance. Article 38 amends the system of funding for free legal aid because, in relation to the current situation, the approval of free legal aid is now being made in a way that pre-sets have certain monthly resources in the framework of which they grant free legal aid and the draft final proposal leaves such restrictions, a restriction is prescribed in terms of the monthly guarantee of funds by the Ministry of Justice for the payment of orders or for the payment of the basis of the legal decisions delivered in the calculation of costs. So offices submit monthly to the Ministry the cost of accounting with the corresponding documentation, the ministry gives consent and a payment order under the insurance funds for the current month. In Article 39, we have more precisely defined the maturity or timing of obtaining the right of a lawyer to provide secondary assistance in the light of certain forms, either after legal aid has been granted or after the legal mark of the procedure in which the legal aid was granted. We also have an indication of the proposals we did not accept and these proposals came from the Committee on Gender Equality of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the representative of Draga Montenegrin from the SDSS Club. The proposal consists of defining the ratio of funds for primary and secondary legal assistance from 40% to 60%. This proposal is not accepted because we believe that any definition of a ratio would limit the meaning and purpose of this law, and this is an approach to justice and that justice which is achieved immediately or at least within a reasonable period of time and with as little cost and expenditure as possible and we claim that through professional and realistic legal advice, through general legal information or an appropriate plea or a peaceful settlement of the dispute outside the court may sooner obtain its right than necessarily through judicial proceedings. The primary legal aid is the newspaper we are now introducing, and at this point it is not possible to give a precise assessment of the amounts necessary for this or that means so that any definition of the ratio of the funds for primary or secondary legal aid would present at this time a restriction on the purpose of this law. The Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Human Rights and Representative Dragan Crnogorac of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS also presented a proposal to extend the circle of users of legal assistance in a way that includes persons who do not have regulated status in the Republic of Croatia due to the collapse of the former state. We did not accept this proposal because on the one hand we expanded potential users and given our place of residence and on the other hand we believe that this draft proposed a maximum circle of users of free legal assistance that should enable the sustainability and functioning of the system of free legal assistance within the framework of the secured funds. We did not accept the proposal relating to the accuracy of the concept of a public legal body, because the public legal body was defined by the General Administrative Procedure Act and we finally had a proposal from Representative Drazen Djurovic of the HDSB's Club to shorten the prescribed decision-making deadline. It is now proposed a period of seven days and a reduction to ten or seven is not significant and we believe that the time of 15 days that allows for decision-making and decision-making in real time. Here's the short story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57702	I thank the Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDz Club will be spoke of by a respected representative, Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57703	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today is the new Final Bill on Free Legal Assistance brought through two readings. This bill brings a lot of novelties in relation to the existing law, which has in practice shown ineffective and complicated laws and even undefined what has led to major problems of non-compliance and application. The amendments to the law have been detected... and this complicated application procedure with an obligation to collect not a small number of documents whose issue is charged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then a clearer determination of the property censorship for the exercise of the right to free legal aid and finally a clearer determination of persons who will provide legal assistance with an emphasis on the obligation of lawyers and on how to determine who it will be that has not been in practice so far. It has often happened that people who manage to cross all obstacles and come to a free legal aid manual cannot do the same because lawyers do not want to provide it and people send it to each other. The first proposal of the Law on Unlawful Legal Assistance made certain questions in the law unclear and unsettled and thus an issue approving the reception of secondary legal aid referred to in Article 13. As the legislator accepted the remarks of the first reading today, we have a final bill that provides restrictions on the approval of legal aid in divorce proceedings in such a way that legal aid is not approved in the procedures of a contractual divorce where spouses do not have underage, joint or adopted children or children over whom they create parenthood after their age. Furthermore, this final proposal for a law has improved the issues governing the functioning of the system of free legal aid, unlike the applicable means of granting legal aid applications in which the pre-offices set out the monthly resources of this final proposal for a law, such restrictions shall be abolished but a restriction shall be prescribed in terms of the monthly collateral of the Ministry of Justice for the payment of the order or delivery of powerful decisions on the calculation of costs. Finally, apart from the changes mentioned above, the final draft of the law improved articles both nomotechnically and linguistically. Therefore, the HDZ Club will also support this law in its second reading, as it supported the proposal of the Law on Free Legal Assistance in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57704	Thank you. A colleague, Boris Blazekovic, will speak on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57705	Thank you, Vice President, Mrs. Artukovic, good evening! I hope that this victim of mine understands and that he will at some point volunteer. Manjukic got the red card, so he got kicked out. We have colleagues and colleagues before us another law that we are harmonising with EU legislation and another law that improves our own legislation. This law simplifies and speeds up the process of obtaining a free legal aid service that enables the state of Croatia to give people less property. Currently, the system of free legal assistance is largely inadequate and dysfunctional. The procedure is complex, there is a narrow circle of users, there is limited scope of legal problems in which legal aid can be granted and strict property criteria. This bill, among other things, comes from the fact that it is the right to equality of all before the law guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal also understands primary and secondary legal assistance. Procedures and censorships for the approval or refusal of legal assistance with certain deadlines and related legal medicinal products shall be prescribed. The legal relations of all actors involved in the free legal assistance process in proceedings before administrative authorities and appropriate forms shall be laid down before the courts. The law also transposes the Council Directive 2003/8 EC on improving access to justice in cross-border disputes, establishing minimum common rules on legal aid in such disputes. supervision of the professional and responsible provision of legal assistance shall be determined. The possibility of replacing a lawyer with unprofessional or unconscious legal assistance shall also be determined. Article 17 of the proposal for a law which, in addition to all complaints and objections to the administrative dispute, resolves the application for free legal aid within 15 maximum 30 days, or at least 38 days. Article 18 also determines the urgency of competent authorities and legal persons who have the data of persons who are obliged to provide data within three days. If only that were the case in other ways where we'd end up. Article 46 sets out the Government of the Republic by 30 April each year to report to us at the Croatian Assembly on the exercise of the right to legal, free legal assistance. Article 4 7 determines the establishment of a legal aid committee as an advisory body of the Ministry of Justice. The commission has seven members who make up two representatives of the Ministry of Justice, one representative of the Ministry of Finance. Ministry of Administration, one representative of the Faculty of Law, Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, representative of the Croatian bar and authorised associations. It should be pointed out that this law is from a law that we position ourselves as a state with a clear definition of the social state as a society with a firm decision that we want equality and justice as a permanent state in society. We Liberals believe that the individual or individual who is self-aware or self-aware is responsible for himself and his own life fate is free. The freest individuals are the ones who make their own decisions, the ones who make their own choices, and realize them according to their talents and desires. Only the person who takes his life in his own hands and without any pressure, especially without the pressure of the state, is free to make an independent and self-aware decision on his own destiny. Each adult, given his talents, inclinations and ambitions, has both the right and the duty to choose his own path and he has every right to demand from the state that this path be made possible and helped to realize it. Today’s societies and states, as well as the modern way of life, are complex and too demanding for individuals or individuals to be able or able to accomplish themselves without the help of the State. Thus, as one of its tasks, the state has an awareness that individuals themselves are simply responsible for caring for themselves and their fates. This clearly means that the state must enable individuals and individuals to be defined and fully realized. In doing so, citizens and citizens as self-aware individuals bear full responsibility for their successes and failures and bear full responsibility for themselves and clearly extend for their family and further for the tight and wider community. However, there are reportedly fewer citizens and citizens who are not fully and able to solve their own problems. The state is obliged to offer these and such citizens and to provide assistance so that they can continue to function as equal individuals in society. One form of such assistance is also free legal aid. Free rights help for our fellow citizens of a weaker property balances the positions of everyone in such an important area as the judicial process. The trial is an institute that the state has established for its citizens so that they can bring justice and justice to themselves and their loved ones. The trial shall ensure that all entities and facilities are balanced in relation to justice and justice, that they are satisfied with unfair, violent, criminal, illegal actions. The State itself has an obligation through public authorities, police, lawyers, or judicial procedures to ensure security, order, law and justice in society. It is therefore necessary that everyone, everyone, has the right and opportunity to access the courts in the same way, regardless of the material situation, regardless of the social and material situation, everyone has the right to professional, competent, adequate legal assistance. This law, except that it directly advocates one law and justice directly impels and promotes human rights, human rights are universal, human rights are threatened by both the state and individuals or various groups. One of the more frequent maintenance of human rights in Croatia is the trial or proceedings before Croatian courts. Processes that last for decades. It is by chance even more often real interested and legal judicial assistance, citizens face an unbearable sense of injustice and meaninglessness. It is a terrible feeling that there is no justice, more unfair and often, and not according to positive legal practice, the procedures introduced throw citizens into despair and despair. When, for example, One entrepreneur waits for a decade for the debtor to pay off his real money a positive verdict after such a long time after being meaningless, late, unfair and often resulting in a long-term ruined trade or enterprise, a broken family, a human tragedy. No doubt in these cases, human rights of entrepreneurs have been severely violated. That should be inadmissible with us. Human rights should be nurtured, cared for and fought for wherever and everywhere and constantly pointed to any threat or attempt to endanger them. Therefore, the efficiency and complete professionality of the judiciary is an obligation of son qua non of a fair society. Without a firm fair trial, we are all at risk of human rights. Right, justice and justice are rare when reduced to a common denominator. The proposal for a law on free legal aid makes us feel that we are somewhat closer to that ideal and that is why the HNS Club will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57706	Thank you. I'm calling on my colleague, Mila Horvat, to state the views of the SDSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57707	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Assistant Minister of Justice, as soon as possible, so let's cut this debate short tonight, as quickly as possible, to present the position of the SDSS Club on this issue. We, as I remember and so far, have tried our part in discussions on therefore all the amendments and additions of this law to say a little bit, a little bit to suggest from the point of view of our thinking, a little bit and through some examples of life in order to try as much as possible and more fully as possible to finally get us a valid, a good-quality legal proposal on illegal legal aid because we think that free legal aid if it is well understood in the final justice system of the Republic. I do not have to underline that free legal aid is one of the cornerstones of human rights protection and that it is a property of the European judicial system or of European judicial practice. For us, it is particularly interesting because it is a population that is quite poor, which is in the process of returning with unresolved property legal and other rights and problems, and this population expects certain functional benefits from free legal assistance. I also think that just free legal aid as an institution as a very important segment of the judicial system has been socially neglected so far. In the end, we all realized here that the previous legal solution was worse, so it wasn't absolutely bad or inapplicable, but it was worse. It was worse because the information factor was downgraded. So we haven't informed the public enough about how to use free legal aid. The criteria for the approval of free legal aid were quite rigorous, therefore slightly further away from real life, and the inaccessibility and insufficient coverage of the space was a characteristic of the previous legal solution. That is why we, we welcome the initiative to adopt this law as a new legal text, not as a change and complement. I think a lot of things from the previous period here are better done and that's why we as a club will support this legal proposal. Some news on the nouma, legal noums in this area are the fact that an extended circle of users of free legal aid are very well-taxed all users, even a few forms of foreign citizenship will be users and help. It was primarily taken into account for target groups, which are socially endangered, unemployed persons, pensioners, children without parents, etc. It simplifies the procedure, which is very important because we warned that the procedure had previously been lengthy and complicated, that the disputed matter and the efficiency brakes in most parts were filling in the manual itself, so we said that it was often necessary for free legal aid itself to consume this free legal aid, or in order to fill out all the forms needed, the deadlines for the complaint were often long, and then it was late with the solutions, so that finally free legal aid was and then free of charge for the user. All legal issues are now covered as far as they were limited in the last solution only to certain spheres mainly to existential legal issues of users. There is a reduction in property censorship for the exercise of rights, which is very acceptable for us. These proposed provisions would make this census easier, so it would be made up of a budget base per household member of 3 thousand 326 kuna as well as some other assets worth 60 budget bases. To remind us so far the criteria for approving aid were high, they were not often consistent with some social status of the users so we had an example that it was necessary to meet cumulatively more conditions for this criterion. The user, for example, had no income, no property owned, but having some co-ownership on earth, not some value, and it excluded him from the category which had the right to legal aid and such a life situation we have very much. As far as this law is concerned, I think it's important to say a few things here. It's very important for us to say. We think the key thing is that this law that is well defined in its legal structure, that it would really become a life-implementing law as it is expected to be, the key thing here is to define and provide quite serious budgetary resources in the budget. So we have the fact that the number of requests for unlawful legal aid in 2012 is to increase, 27% more requirements were received than in the previous year, in 2009, 84% more requirements than in previous years were received. In the 2012 state budget, around 2 million kunas were foreseen for free legal aid and the rebalance even reduced to a million 200 000. Do we expect to solve this social problem with a million kuna? I mean, it's a pretty utopian thing. This is not compared to some European average, not even 0.73 euros per capita and so much is one Romania. Therefore, these are some financial matters that need to be taken into account. The budget for 25014, 2015 provides for two million kuna for the implementation of a total project called free legal aid. I'm going to say that we've already been insufficient means of legal aid so far, but because of these restrictions in law enforcement, it hasn't even been used. However, we now have a situation that, according to this new legal solution, the accessibility of free legal assistance for users will be much greater, and then it will be quite logical and then it is expected that the pressure on this assistance will be greater and that these two million kunas will not be enough to realise these projects. We have also introduced this law and a lighter criterion of property under which free legal aid could be achieved without the identification of property censorships, as I said, this specifically refers to children in maintenance procedures, beneficiaries of social welfare rights or beneficiaries of supply rights, supplies such as family, children of defenders, military and civil invalid war, etc. and that is why it is necessary, if the progress of any requirements is then there should be progress in the planning of the budget this year and in 2015 as provided for by the law. It is also a newspaper in this law which, of course, is well foreseen to introduce a project financing system which is a European practice where funding for the implementation of free legal assistance is approved on the basis of approved projects. And here we see a chance to solve the problem of insufficient coverage of the area especially of special state concern where we do not have an official institution-organised network of institutions, state institutions, state offices, lawyers etc. So there is a chance that through the Free Legal Assistance Associations and the project financing of their work, this lack of networking on the ground is compensated for what we see as a very good thing and as one of the only opportunities for a certain category of people living in those areas to benefit from this free legal aid. But we think that this should be specifically defined in the financial section, so the project financing must be particularly financially defined and our opinion is that it is almost impossible for the mission to finance both the previous and the project financing of 2 million kuna per year. Finally, we remain with the opinion that, in article 5, the users should be extended except for all those categories of foreigners in such a way as to add an indent that says they are users of free legal aid and foreigners under subsidiary and temporary protection. In the circle of free legal aid, we still think it is necessary to include citizens who, due to the disintegration of the former state, as the promoter said, still do not have regulated status of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They live here have their families etc. and they still haven't regulated the status of citizens. The most common are members of the Roma national minority. The problem of persons who have been removed from Croatian citizenship due to administrative failures should also be highlighted here, and they do not have any other citizenship and should in any case be allowed to be users of free legal assistance in solving all these problems. We also think that this is about a limited number of people who cannot significantly compromise their number with some kind of financial structure to realise free legal aid. We do not think that there is a thesis in the proposal's reasoning that their inclusion in the law would prejudice the sustainability of the functioning of free legal aid. According to some of our estimates, this is not such a significant number that would question the sustainability of the functioning of this system, it can only bring limited resources into the budget. So 2 million kunas as planned for the implementation of this project will in any case question the sustainability of this project and unfortunately it will not be good if this good legal text and this good idea is questioned because in the budget we have not allocated more quality funds for its implementation. In the previous period we had a problem with a legal solution that was not enforceable, and now we have a good legal solution but we will not implement it in view of the limited resources for users of free legal aid and this comes in final to the same. And they couldn't realize it during that period, and I'm afraid that with such limited resources, even now these users won't be able to consume everything they can from this good text. The text is good and we'll support it at our club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57708	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before I move on to this serious subject of colleagues and colleagues, let me tell you that some today have told me that today is World Men's Day, and then I tell our colleagues that if that's true then we reached at 21.15 that our wife is almost 50% in the assembly, so here's a recipe to be us at some other time in that percentage. So so far we've talked about the proposal for a law on free legal aid both in the first and now we've heard it in the second reading. Of course, the SDP Club will support this bill at the time of the legal aid and spending report in 2012 that we discussed in the month of May of this year and during the debate on the first reading of this bill we said that we certainly support the whole text of the law because these are indeed improvements that will make this institute more accessible to more needy citizens. When the Law on Free Legal Assistance was adopted in 2008 for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, a legislative framework for the creation of a complete system of legal assistance in civil and administrative matters and extensive novels as we know it came into existence in 2011. Every year we evaluated and analysed the system of implementation of the right to free legal aid, which is certainly good for monitoring the implementation of the system. And just for the sake of systematic monitoring of that implementation, we have before us this bill. The existing law, despite the 2011 extensive novel, has in practice proved to be non-functional primarily because of the complexity of the legal aid procedure due to the narrow circle of users which included a limited scope of legal problems in which legal aid can be granted, too strict property criteria and an inadequate financing system. After the Law on Free Legal Assistance was fixed and applied in practice, it was shown that the provision of legal assistance to economically and socially endangered categories of citizens could continue to be improved. Such a system stems from the recommendation of international experts such as the twing light project, by improving the system of free legal assistance. We believe that new legal solutions will improve the existing inefficient and extremely complex system and the main objective, we do not dispute, of course, the establishment and development of the system and the approximation of the systems of the most needed citizens for whom the system itself has been established. A fair trial begins with a guarantee that an individual has the right to access a court and that allows all forms of judicial protection. Professional assistance is needed to ensure that an individual enjoys access to a court in particular when it comes to persons with insufficient financial resources to provide professional assistance. This proposal provides that legal aid can be obtained for any legal problem, general legal information can be obtained if primary legal assistance is extended, a circle of users of free legal aid, a reduction of property censorship and a simplification of the procedure is extended. The very fact that a total of 3848 applications were submitted in 2009, that the number grew from year to year and in 2012 was 7068, speaks for itself enough and taking into account the overall and overall property situation of our citizens, it is necessary to raise this asset price. The property criterion is milder, so far the base has been income of slightly more than 2700 kuna per month, per member, per month per household member and in the future there will be a budget base, i.e. 3326 kuna per household member and other assets worth 60 budget bases. The procedure under which legal aid providers themselves verify that applicants meet the legal requirements for the exercise of the right to primary legal aid is simplified. The authority of the office to require the competent authorities of the data required to decide the basis of the request as well as the prescribed obligation of those authorities to provide the requested information within three days is a major aid to the applicant for free legal assistance. This is the official of the state administration who has been assigned to the services of providing free legal assistance and is paid for not only easier and faster but also naturally to be included in his job description. In addition, unlike the ignorant party, without investigating and knowing which bodies the data should be collected from and the time limit within which the data must be obtained is certainly in favour of the speedy resolution of the procedural assumptions for the resolution of the basis of the request. Therefore, given that analyses of the current legal solution and the current state of play in providing free legal assistance have established that the system of free legal assistance can be improved from the point of view of target groups, which are specifically intended from the point of view of the needs of socially vulnerable persons, for legal information and advice from the SDP Club, will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57710	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57711	Final draft law on free legal aid, second reading, PZE No. 441. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 99 votes, we have passed the Law on Free Legal Assistance in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57712	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Fees, first reading, P.Z. No. 507; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Sandra Artuković Kunst, Deputy Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57713	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Law on Court Taxes has so far been amended several times and, in the meantime, since we have amended other implementing rules of the Law on Procedural Procedure, the Law on Land Books, the Implementing Law, the Law on Pre-Arguation, and also these announcements that we have now discussed the Law on Free Legal Assistance refer to the need for further harmonisation, or the completion of the provisions and this law. The proposed amendments primarily relate to the acceleration and effectiveness of the payment of court fees. We sought to remove existing doubts in the interpretation and application of certain provisions. As I have said, compliance with the provisions of other laws and nomotechnical arrangements and what is meant for the system of payment of court fees to lead to what has been observed in practice as insufficient, so it does not always apply in any way and in any way necessary under the law. In order to make court fees faster and more effective, as well as to relieve judges of cases which do not fall within the jurisdiction of this proposal, a higher newspaper is prescribed and that the decision on the fee is taken and carried out by a special court officer. For now and in, according to the current arrangements of these affairs, the judges are involved and we believe that this is not appropriate in view of their function. And on the other hand, we have the possibility that we have an e-record or electronic system of processing of court cases which at that electronic level allows these transactions to be entrusted specifically to the court officer and without too much burden on the judge to handle cases on a regular basis. We have also introduced the possibility of a legal remedy to a decision on the charge, the decision on the fee is not a decision that has such a weight that the legal remedy should be imposed, so that the court of higher degree should resolve it than we have an appeal to be resolved by the court, the first court of law, and that is... a legal remedy which is allowed and appropriate in this area of decision on court fees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also have the current situation that if the performance is not carried out on the taxpayer's cash it takes a year to spend on the remaining property of the taxable person. This deadline is considered completely unnecessary under the circumstances in which we have introduced the implementation of the budget implementation of the general debtor through the performance and in the system that we have, which is a system with a single account register. The unique account register will show us whether the party has open accounts or armed funds, whether cash-sighted payment is possible at all and we will see it immediately. If possible, we will carry out a charge in this way, if it is not possible immediately, the Financial Agency shall forward a solution to the competent authority's tax authority to carry out the application on another property of the taxable person. The goal is, of course, to speed things up and shorten this unnecessary time of the year that we now have to charge in these cases. We have also provided for a unique limitation period for the payment of fees. It would now be 5 years, it has been extended, the goal is to enable and charge tax obligations as much as possible and therefore during that time from 5 years to antiquity. We had doubts about interpreting certain provisions, so we had a provision whereby persons and bodies exercising public authority were exempt from paying court fees. We have now specified this provision, so the persons and bodies exercising public authority are not exempt from the obligation to pay the fees at all times and in each case, but only within the framework of the exercise of their powers. We had an exemption from paying fees in cases for abstention. It is not all the subject matter of abstention that justifies the exemption from payment of fees. We have now proposed a solution in which the exemption from payment of fees refers exclusively to children as parties in procedures in order to abstain because the practice by which the party requesting the reduction of the maintenance obligation has no reason to be exempt from the obligation to pay the fee, for example. In view of the amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, the Land Books, the Executive Act and the Financial Business and the Pre-demand Agreements, we have made some adjustments, so we have deleted the provisions on the procedure for the release from payment of the court fee because we have laid down those provisions in the Law on Free Legal Assistance which we have spoken about. We have deleted the provisions relating to the copy of the collection of documents and the electronic processing of land-book data because in land-book law these acts no longer exist. On the other hand, we have introduced a payment of the court fee in the procedure of enrolling certain parts of the property and in the procedures of connecting the land book with the book of contracted contracts according to the number of specific parts of the property for which the enrolment is sought. Since it is the items that carry with them a certain property value, they are not in themselves necessary for the party but show that the party has a specific property. On the other hand, they burden the work of courts, i.e. land-booking departments, and we have introduced a range of fees for these activities in proportion to 100 to 1000 kuna, which we do not consider to be a large cost. We have introduced tax obligations in the pre-fashion settlement procedure, and this is for the submission of a proposal for a settlement decision and for, which is also important, an appeal for the solutions made. This is where we predicted a fee ranging from 500 to 2000 kuna. The newspaper that we consider very important and which is very important for equality and in fact is very important, which is the moment when there is a duty for the procedural action to respond to the suit. Namely, the defendant is in his current state of mind to respond to the undertaking to pay the fee when he submits the reply. We believe that the defendant did not choose the position of prosecutor, that the answer to the complaint may facilitate his position in the dispute and if that happens, and we will see that after the appeal has been decided depending on the proportionate success of the dispute. The defendant shall then be subject to the payment of the fee for the answer to the action. We have introduced specific duty obligations for those who have not submitted sufficient copies of the submission or other annex, and they know who participate in the procedure of how many contributions are required. If the need for contributions or submissions has arisen, the cost of fees should also be borne in addition to the cost of the painting. The aim is, of course, to prevent such behaviour of parties in the process. We have deleted unnecessary restrictions to determine the value of the dispute in property-law matters concerning real estate because the only real estate market value is realistically the only criterion. If there was a rejection of the illegal audit, we introduced a duty obligation because we believe that the submission of the illegal audits which should then be rejected is actually an action which unnecessarily burdens the system, especially the functioning of the Supreme Court as the most intrinsic. We've increased the amount of tax to verify a life and life support contract from 300 to 500 kuna. This is not a significant leap, but it still shows the intention of at least equating ourselves with the costs of the actions taken by public notebooks in these activities because they are also authorised to verify life and life support contracts with which, of course, the certificate or the solmisation of these documents is burdened with a significantly higher amount, amounting to around 2,500 kuna. We have deleted the provisions concerning court settlements, and the rest are in the Court Tax Act. There's no charge for a court settlement. We have changed the terms from execution to enforcement, and this is about briefly what we have anticipated to amend, or suggest, and of course by the second reading other circumstances will be crystallized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57714	I thank the Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, respected colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57715	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the respected Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Court Taxes is such as nature, such content and finds such solutions that the SDP club will support its adoption. What we think is important in the SDP club, as well as in this law, that it will contribute to one better even access to justice, but also more justly to bear such costs as the tax in relation to the participants in the proceedings, prosecutors and defendants and to the very value and nature of the disputes. How important are the court fees, or their amounts, and the charge I will pay you, and how much through this the willingness of the government, the state in accessing the judiciary to one bizarreness. Please, we've fixed it before in 2002 or 2003. So for more than 10 years we had a situation that in the 1990s the court fees were so increased that you had absurdd that the value of the slow 300 kuna, and the fee was 1200 kuna. You've had 1200 kunas for insult or in disputes, so to speak to the leprosy both in criminal matters and in litigation. And what was that? So, when the judiciary is out of frame for what we're going to do with people, how we get rid of them, we're going to raise the enormous court fees. How many people were left unsatisfactory because they had no access to justice. Then by 50%, we also reduced the fees by 50% in a difficult financial situation. And so all the later changes that were and were on the trail, so the improvements in this arrangement and the fairer of the court fees themselves. I would particularly refer to this norm no longer to the judge by calculating the court fee. They sometimes found it so difficult, not just by calculating, but later by making sure that she was charged. We can imagine which judge still in Europe deals with these issues. He has all the things prepared and decides only on the metrics, not on technical matters. Finally, this solution is in line with the EU's directive to free judges and all judicial powers so-called. non-judgmental matters, proceedings and transfer, therefore, which are purely administrative, such as the calculation of the court fee, and ultimately the party is also absolutely protected in terms of incorrect, illegal calculation because, therefore, the earlier cost decision was one of the essential ingredients, i.e. the grounds for appeal. So we release the judges and automatically release them for what they are eventually named, and that will contribute to the speed of the trial. and focus on what they're set up for. It also takes care of the fact that this court fee is charged. So, what is determined to be and charged. It also shows the seriousness of a country. We had decades and so, the fees were large, someone paid them. Mostly those who, who wanted to, who cheated on their creditors, also cheated on you by the state, so they couldn't pay, and the state was weak and powerless. She had other jobs than to make sure that the state was neat and that all claims were charged. It shall therefore be settled by this Article, by amendments to Article 40 and by these provisions which concern essentially the collection. It also extends the deadline so that the limitation occurs only after five years, thus increasing the possibility of charging the fee. It's always good that the deadline is shorter. However, given the good news, the Ministry of Justice has been assessed in view of the difficult situation, and often the inability to collect, therefore, and yet in order to avoid that payment, this limitation period has been justly extended to 5 years. We also saw the situation at the beginning of its presentation that many could not pay that enormous fee for the bagatella things that were more expensive than 1000 kuna at that time 15, 16 years ago. But now you have a different situation, an absurd situation. Therefore, in order to prevent bickering and to respond that the fee to respond to the complaint pays only after the end of the proceedings relatively naturally the success of the case. We consider it a good, just solution. Likewise, the statements of the audit, the submission of the audit, although the audit does not delay the execution, have often been used as a means of legal action in order to defuse or at least delay the implementation. However, this is a good solution in Article 18 to reject illegal audits in order to pay a fee according to paragraph 1 of the first tariff number. In Article 24, paragraph 8, which is changed and reads, we will see that there is a certain gathering. Now we're going to see how much that's the largest addition is of 500, so the enrollment for more than 500 special parts of 1000 kuna. Therefore, that amount, the maximum amount of 1000 kuna, was deliberately mentioned in the opening statement that, 18 years ago, the reply or the fee for the insult and defamation suit was exactly that much, i.e. 1200. Here I wouldn't, I think what's most important is what I wanted to say, and I don't want to repeat what the esteemed deputy minister pointed out. Here, the SDP club supports the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57716	Thank you. I would like to invite my colleague Milan Jurkovic to state the positions of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57717	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vice President, I don't know if it's in accordance with the statute, with the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, but if the third goal falls, feel free to interrupt me and I'll be done. Dear colleagues and colleagues watching sometimes congregation television, you esteemed representatives in these late nights and later on, I thought about it, so see if it's humane and whether they really need to be in the Parliament at that time or if it's just a game. Now, as a witness, I see that you're doing it seriously at 9:00 or 9:00 or 10:00 p.m. and sometimes a little later. In this proposal of the law, the esteemed deputy minister, it is generally easy to discuss because it is made of quality because it offers improvements and proposes good changes. We voted on the board as a club for these changes, so I guess, I will, that the club will raise a hand for this law on Friday. I have a few small dilemmas myself, so let me take them out. In the existing law in Article 16 concerning the exemption from court fees, it was also stated, inter alia, that persons and bodies in the exercise of public authority, and now the text which exercise public authority in the exercise of those powers, is proposed. The Institute of Public Authorities is the subject of many discussions in theory and practice and is often asked a question on what basis all persons or bodies exercise public authority and how to define public authority when it is not prescribed anywhere. I wonder how this has been solved so far, or will it be left to the court's office to assess freely? And speaking of Article 16, not that it is clear to me but, and we will not tolerate the amendment because I doubt it would be accepted, how units of local and regional, or regional self-government or municipalities and cities are treated, although the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government or Regional Self-Government are visible from the provisions of the units in question for bodies exercising public authority. We support any amendments to the laws that supplement the provisions in order to make them more effective and to remove doubts in their application. But I also think that this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes should not increase fees but also consider reducing certain charges regardless of the state of the state budget. I see that from 3:0 nothing, and I end up and I thank and believe in 3:0. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57718	I thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57719	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, first reading of the PZ No. 507. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes is hereby adopted. 1. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? There's someone restrained. There is. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 98 votes in favour, and one abstention, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57720	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on Foreign Law Notifications, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 500; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Sandra Artuković Kunst, deputy minister of justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57721	Thank you very much. Well, here's the shortest I could do, and I crossed half of it. In any event, the European Convention on Foreign Notifications was drawn up in '68 and '69. It's in effect. It is one of the Council of Europe conventions drawn up for the purpose of establishing a system of mutual international legal assistance in the relations of States Parties to the Convention. Under that Convention, the Contracting Parties undertake to provide one other notification of their right and of the procedure in the fields of civil and commercial law and of their organisation of justice. Two or more Contracting Parties may decide to extend the scope of the Convention to other areas, and it is, in fact, that here, for example, we can have the application of foreign law because the parties have agreed to do so, so that in resolving their disputed relationship, they will apply the foreign law of another State or they can apply foreign law if this results from conflicting norms in a particular procedure with us. In order for the court to be able to resolve, or decide by applying foreign law, it is necessary to notify that party of the law, thus obtaining notice that it is in a foreign country, that a specific legal question has been settled or that a particular system has been set up if it appears in the case as disputed. We have so far informed of the real right to obtain diplomatic channels and it has been a regular common path which on the one hand has its faults and this is the fact that this process takes longer, but on the other hand what has specifically appeared as a problem is communication i.e. communication. The acquisition of real rights from the Federal Republic of Germany, which has in the last year referred us to the application of the Convention and we have about 60% of applicants concerning therefore Croatian courts' applications for obtaining information about the party's rights are in proportion to 60% of the German foreign law. Notwithstanding the Federal Republic of Germany, in general for the functioning of the Croatian legal system, in particular after the accession of the EU, the confirmation of this Convention is significant because it will allow the notification of foreign law to be dealt with without delay and through an easier legal path, i.e. cases in which an example of foreign law appears faster and more effectively. When the Republic of Croatia becomes party to the Convention and enters into force for Croatia, it will be easier for courts to obtain information on foreign law and areas of civil and commercial law from countries which are parties to the Convention and vice versa, the Republic of Croatia will be able to make it easier by means of notification to foreign courts of law and civil and commercial law proceedings with us. It also facilitates the exchange of information to the judiciary organisation. In order to implement this Convention, no specific additional financial resources from the budget are required, the Convention shall not require the adoption or amendment of existing laws but shall be subject to confirmation under Article 18. The law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts is, in fact, the essence of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57722	I thank the Deputy Minister. I'm asking if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear Deputy Minister. As already said, the European Convention on Foreign Notifications is one of the conventions concluded within the Council of Europe. Apart from the Republic of Croatia, which will become 46 parties to this Convention, it is in force for the majority of the Member States of the Council of Europe but also for some non-European countries such as Costa Rica, Mexico and Morocco. Ratio's conclusion of this Convention is the establishment of a system of mutual international assistance in the relations between the States of the parties to the Convention in order to facilitate the obligation to obtain information on the rights of the parties and their judicial authorities. The Convention concerns notices of the right and procedure in the areas of civil and commercial law as well as the organisation of the judiciary of a particular State of the signatories but States are free to extend the scope of this Convention to other areas. I will remind, as in most countries and Croatia, the principle of "jurant new" curri is true. In accordance with that principle and Article 13 of the Law on the resolution of the conflict of law with the regulations of other countries certain issues are prescribed. The court or other competent authority shall establish, under its official duty, the content of the applicable law. Therefore, it is clearly prescribed in Croatia that it is the court which, under official duty, determines the content of foreign law and that the parties in this procedure can only assist it or that the burden of knowledge of foreign law lies primarily in court. As today's civil and trade relations increasingly involve participants from several countries, the situation from which our courts must apply foreign law when making decisions becomes increasingly frequent and requires considerable effort to determine not only what right to apply but especially what content of this right is. The process of obtaining information on the content of foreign law is long and painful and results in a significant extension of already too long court proceedings. In such a situation, the adoption of this law is a significant step and will be a significant aid to our courts in obtaining the content of foreign law but also to third-country courts in those situations where they must apply Croatian right to a particular case before them. This Law and Convention lays down the domestic body responsible for receiving and sending notification of foreign law and the organisation of the judiciary in the form of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia. A language and procedure shall be defined for the request of a foreign law which shall be eligible for the costs of the notification exclusively relating to the costs necessary for the purpose of the possible involvement of external associates, subject to the consent of that State which requested the notification. The content of the request shall be defined where more precisely than one legal order is to be referred to in the order in which the notification concerning the rights of the requested State is sought and, where more than one legal order exists in the requested State, the legal order from which the notification is sought shall also be indicated. The content of the response aimed at giving an objective and impartial notification of the right of the requested State shall be defined. Such a response shall include, where appropriate, relevant texts of the regulations, relevant court decisions and, to the extent deemed necessary, may be accompanied by additional documents such as extracts from scientific papers or comments with reasons. The obligation to provide information on its own right, with the exception that the State is not obliged to give notice if the case at issue affects its interests or if it considers that the answer could endanger its sovereignty or security. The Convention, however, does not define the time limit within which the reply is given, but only indicates that the response to the notification request is delivered as quickly as possible and, if the response is prepared for a longer period of time, the receiving agency shall inform the foreign body of the applicant and, where possible, indicate the likely date until which the reply will be sent. In short, the accession of the Republic of Croatia to this Convention will significantly facilitate the process of obtaining information on real law during the court proceedings and will therefore significantly facilitate the conduct of these procedures, which is why the SDP Representatives Club supports the adoption of this law and the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Convention on Foreign Law, indicating that this should have been done much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57724	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected colleague, Igor Coleman, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57725	Yeah, I was just about to say it. Thank you very much. I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Deputy Minister, the Honorable Minister of Administration, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues, that it is unfortunate to talk about justice after Peja Grbina, thank God it is this late, so no one listens anyway, especially when Mr. Grbin and the deputy have mostly said everything that needs to be said about this. However, as a representative of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I also need to stress some of the elements of this Convention. It is therefore mentioned that the simple situation in which we live intensively and traffic and the exchange of people and goods in the European area and the wider and development of international cooperation often requires the interpretation and application of foreign law especially in situations such as the conflict of jurisdiction of national legislation that the court must interpret or apply the principle of foreign law, particularly in matters of mandatory relations, family legislation or the status of persons. As a result, this Convention is ultimately drawn up to bear in mind the need of the courts of the members of the Council of Europe and, in the meantime, that is why my colleague Grbin also said that some non-members have joined to receive accurate information on foreign legislation and that they get this information as quickly as possible. The Convention also includes the sending of notices on its right, area of civil and commercial law and its organisation of justice, so that states can agree and extend that scope. For the purpose of implementing the Convention, one body shall be established or appointed, the receiving agency in the Republic of Croatia, which shall be the Ministry of Justice, who shall also take over the role of the authority in charge of sending requests for notifications. What seems important to me to point out and I have not noticed that it is mentioned that the received response is in no way obliged by the judicial authority or state of which the notification request was taking place and also the requested state may refuse to give notice if it considers that it might affect its interests or compromise its sovereignty or security and the HNS will, of course, think that it is not even disputed to support this adoption of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57726	I thank my colleague Coleman. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57727	Final draft law confirming the European Convention on Notifications and on Foreign Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No 500. The debate is concluded on the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 99 votes, the law on the confirmation of the European Convention on Foreign Notifications has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57728	We move to the next point Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 502 Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings of the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Given that he has taken the position behind the speaker, I conclude that the proposing representative wishes to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57729	You've reached a good conclusion, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is therefore a matter of harmonising the Law on the selection of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia with the Council Directive of 20 December 2012 on the establishment of detailed arrangements for the exercise of passive voting rights in elections for the European Parliament, for non-citizens of the Union. In agreement with the DIP and the blind associations, we have also proposed such a formulation allowing the vote of the blind with the help of the companion or matrix, and we propose also to delete the provision of Article 46(2). A law laying down that the vote at the headquarters of the Diplomatic Consular Representation lasts for two days. I can also show myself about the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, so the Government accepts the amendment and the amendment of the SDP Club cannot be demonstrated because I do not have the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57730	I thank the minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative, Daniel Mondekar, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57731	Thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since most of the MPs before me have shortened their debates at the last points, I suggest that I extend and extend mine. Short and clear about this law. It is a technical amendment that really regulates the issue of passive voting law, a welcome change is certainly the vote of dissuasive and blind persons and each should be noted that the SDP Club has sent an amendment to this law in order to de fact-finding Article 9 allow our citizens abroad to vote for two days, so the Club sent that amendment. Of course, you're expected to see the obvious. This law, like I said, is technical. He will not provide us with greater turnout, winning each other's options based solely on amendments to two or three of these articles. What is very important about the change in these elections is that the rules of the elections themselves have changed that we will have some innovations such as de facto candidates for the head of the European Commission who will be highlighted in the elections themselves. We hope that the legitimacy of the elections itself will be added to the strengthened, drop in turnout if nothing else is stopped especially if it is taken into account that the person or that list that received the most votes really gives the president of the commission. This depends now on the Member States. Some Member States have already expressed their skepticism and announced that de facto such a name and name on such a list will only be a consulting factor that will propose to the Council or give the Council some advice, so let's say who should be supported in what way for the President of the Commission. I believe that this is a serious problem of such thinking because it really loses the legitimacy of the elections themselves and that is the only way to ensure that the drop in turnout or citizens' interest in the European elections continues in the future. So it's unrelated to this law. As far as the law itself is concerned, the SDP Club therefore supports the same proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57732	I thank and invite my colleague Igor Coleman to take the position of the HNS clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. So there is really technical change on the one hand, but on the other hand two important changes both in this law and in general for Croatian politics and for the Croatian state. It seems to us first that this is the vote of the blind with the help of the escorts, so what is important is that we also allow those blind people who are illiterate to vote. This is important because it is important that in all areas of state affairs, in all situations where we can find ourselves developing a society and a state that gives all its fellow citizens and fellow citizens equal at least the initial chance to participate in society and in the affairs of the state, and in this sense this law has been and has been these efforts. The second thing I would like to point out is this article 6 which facilitates the candidateship of another EU member's citizens and by abolishing the obligation to submit a certificate to the competent authorities of the country of origin which proves that there is no right to run. This is otherwise candidateing for nationals of other countries is an interesting trend which is new in the Croatian elections that comes with EU accession. Foreign citizens can run and can vote and it is waiting for us in the local elections as well, and that is something we must start to get used to. And there would be no first time and it would happen in the EU for foreign citizens to win even the election for what we would call the mayors or mayors. For example. in Spain, in many places where foreigners bought a lot of real estate, it happened that foreigners became both mayors and mayors, and that is not something that is unimaginable for Croatia. What is good is that ballots stay in the language and in the letter of the recipient country because let's say that a Bulgarian is running and that his name is written on Cyrillic to make the citizens and citizens of Croatia react to it. It's my good night provocation. Thank you. And the HNS club will, of course, support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57734	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting today's session. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. Proposal for a pension insurance law. I thank you all. Good night. Session interrupted at 21.57 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57735	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 502. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the SDP Representatives' Club. I'd like the esteemed deputy secretary of the board of directors of Zoran Piculjan to show off. First, the Committee on Legislatives, Amendment No 1 to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57736	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57737	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. SDP Representatives' Club Amendment No 1 to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57738	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57739	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57740	The solution proposed in the draft law will have the same effect as with the amendment but all of this with less financial costs and organisational involvement of electoral bodies until the electoral right of citizens is violated. That's why you don't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57741	I'm asking the club representative to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57742	I believe that in other laws, you will also regulate the election. That's what I expect the Ministry to regulate you in other laws as well. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-19-0.u57743	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I ask that the adoption of this law requires most votes from the total number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, that is 76 votes in accordance with Article 253 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I beg your pardon? Who is for this final bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 88 votes in favour and 10 votes against the passed Law on the election of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
