ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u35515	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Today is the 11th day when we remember the Srebrenica victims and I would ask a break of 10 minutes to say a few words about it after that break in the Croatian Parliament. I would also ask all colleagues who are sympathetic to the victims of Srebrenica to put on the lapels today the flower of Srebrenica as a symbol of that compassion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u35516	I'm setting a break to 10.40. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? It's 10:00.31. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament to hear on behalf of the National Minority Club of Honored Representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u35518	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with his associates. Today is the 11th of July 2013, the day when we remember the terrible events of July 1995 that occurred in the neighbouring Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 18 years ago, there was a Srebrenica tragedy. As the final act of four years of war hell in which the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina was found after most of its citizens in the referendum declared themselves independent and sovereignty in Srebrenica, more than 8,000 men aged 12 to 77 years separated from the female part of their families and in the most brutal manner liquidated by enemies of Bosnian-Herzegovic independence led by General Ratko Mladic. Husbands, fathers, sons, brothers, grandkids, wives of mothers, daughters, sisters, grandchildren, and grandmothers were taken to other places where they did not belong. The Srebrenica has been cleaned from the Srebrenica. In the protected zone that the Security Council of the United Nations declared in April 1993 and with the presence of the forces of Uprenophora that were in charge of safeguarding the safety of the population of Srebrenica in the heart of Europe and on the trail of the 21st century, genocide was committed. The bodies of the unfortunate victims were buried in mass graves and were on several occasions transferred to the so-called so-called tomb. secondary tombs to cover the crime trail so that even today 18 years after genocide, no bodies of all victims were found. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today the whole of Europe and the world together remembers the tragedy of Srebrenica. We recall the tragedy when the people of the darkened mind carried out in the part of the announcement of the disappearance of the Muslim-Bosnian people spoken in the Assembly of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina by their leader Radovan Karadzic did what common sense cannot be understood as possible. Today we express our duty to the victims of this tragedy and express our sincere condolences to the members of their families. But today, when the remains of several hundred victims of the Srebrenica tragedy found and identified during last year will be buried in Potocari. And when despite the immeasurable pain in the souls of their family members, even if a grain of peace and serenity is to be moved in, we must say that the Europe of that time has deliberately or intentionally stopped it today and did not want to see the daily suffering and pain of hundreds of thousands or millions of people. A Europe of that time could prevent a multi-year war tragedy that took place not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also in our country of the Republic of Croatia. The tragedy in which the genocide in Srebrenica was... I guess the final act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But she didn't do it. Why? That question will hover over Europe in its future. It is a shame that every honest European will feel whenever we remember Srebrenica. Why didn't it work? I guess to remind myself that silence, or inaction, is also the answer. Unfortunately, the response he gave back back then to warlords. Dear colleagues and colleagues precisely because Europe did not prevent war and genocide at the time, and it could, I call on you today from this assembly to today's Europe and the world, and especially to the European Union, whose equal membership we say that memory, piety and compassion are not enough. By expressing the piety of the victim, we cannot repay by expressing compassion to the members of their families the grief and pain they feel we cannot undo. But today's Europe can and must be a guarantee of peace, can and must have open eyes and can and must react in case of need on time. Dear colleagues and colleagues today in this assembly, I would also like to express my pride that I belong to the Bosniak people over whom genocide was committed. I feel this pride above all because of the fact that despite the huge sacrifices the Bosniak people have suffered in the process of creating an independent and sovereign Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina but also our country of the Republic of Croatia despite the genocide in Srebrenica, members of my Bosniak people have never reached out for revenge, never spread hatred, wider ideas of co-existence and sending messages of peace and tolerance. So I invite you today from this assembly to wear a flower of Srebrenica that reminds us of the proportions of the Srebrenica tragedy which is being made by just the Srebrenica mothers, sisters, wives, daughters, grandmothers and grandchildren, and we send a message throughout the world that the Srebrenica tragedy must not be forgotten. I invite you to do everything in our power to make the tragedy of Srebrenica never again, anywhere, and no one else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u35519	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, with one single wish did not happen again, please give us a minute of silence to honor the victims of Srebrenica. - A moment of silence - May it be their eternal glory! Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament, respected fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We continue with the plenary session of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament as we agreed on, a joint debate - A)The annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 (B)The annual report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2012 - The report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget for 2012 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 110. Budget law. When discussing the Annual Report, the provisions of Article 176 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Next, the applicant of the 2012 Annual Report on the Implementation of the State Budget is the State Audit Office, based on Article 6. The State Audit Office Act. You've received the materials. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate on the State Audit Report was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia want to give an introductory explanation? Yeah. Minister of Finance, Honorable Slavko Linic, please. Well, then we'll give it to the state's audit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46676	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. It has been 6 months since the end of last year, but quite still time to try to assess what was determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2012. Let us remind ourselves of the three main guidelines of government work for 2012. First, the battle for economic growth, first of all through investments, number two fiscal consolidation and the construction of state accounts and third, the battle for reforms. In this direction, the government also proposed a State budget for 2012. You now have the results of this state budget. Let's first assess what was characterized in the macroeconomic part of 2012. GDP actually fell 2%. We wonder what the main reasons for this decline are, then we see that household spending is actually down by 3%, that investments fell by 4.6% and that government spending is down 0.8%. At the same time, due to price harmonisation, especially energy, inflation last year was slightly higher 3.4%, industrial production dropped 5.5%. Negative trends are recorded and the store is slightly from 4.3%. The total number of arrivals of tourists and overnight stays increased by 3.3 and 4%, respectively, and this can be said that with the increase in goods exports by 1.4%, the only positive trends in 2012. And the number of registered unemployed persons was 324 323 or 18990 more unemployed than in 2011. So we can conclude that in 2012 it is a simple year of crisis and the negative results of the macro-economic environment. Did the government try to change such macro-economic figures and what it did in that part. So let's try to go to that first part of whether the government has taken whatever it takes to enable the economy to grow, to enable the economy to invest and to enable the economy to keep their jobs. This may be the simplest attempt to explain what measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia had in mind to enable the economy to work better. Perhaps it is best to note that another critical data was in the economy, which was 41.7 billion registered unpaid bills on 31.12.2011. and overall during 2012, the level reached was 44.7 billion kuna. Thus, indifference is also one of the characteristics that was present in 2012 and this was now a question of how to solve these problems. What were the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the battle to maintain jobs and in the battle to reverse the trend towards investment? The government first changed fiscal policy, so it estimated that it was overpriced and that's why we reduced the two index points of contributions from health and reduced them from 15% to 13% somewhere in May 2012. We also estimated that the parafiscal impositions were too high, so that was why we reduced the forest fees by 50%, the water contribution by 50% and partially reduced the indirect monumental rent that was being calculated. Also, we are aware that the investment without capital does not go well, we have made a decision to exempt the profit tax for reinvested profits and very short results from the final accounts of the companies show that the companies kept 1.1 billion kuna on behalf of this relief. We also estimated to reduce catering services from 1.1 this year, so we brought this part simply as a measure of increasing the competitiveness of hospitality in 2012. We have also estimated that it is important for us to have a stronger entry into economic activity, to encourage crafts, and that is why we raised the flat tax from 85,000 to 149500 and also to raise VAT to 230 000 kuna. These are direct tax effects that should enable the economy to work easier, more competitive work, retaining workers in the process of economic activity. As regards resolving the problem of liquidity, the Government of the Republic of Croatia immediately set out with the possibility of reprogramming. By half last year, we had two models. One was a tax debt reprogramme with 30 to 36 months, and later we allowed a one-time payment of the principal with a full write-off of interest. We have estimated that this is not enough, as indivisibility is high, so by amending the tax law, we have allowed companies to beat all their debts to the state with a possible claim from any government body and also the possibility of tax debts paying with real estate, all in order to strengthen their liquidity and to keep workers in the process of production. As we estimated that this was not enough to improve liquidity either, we passed the end of the year and the Financial Business Act and suggested so-called. Pre-curricular settlements or credential settlements. So, not only is there a state in that, but the other creditors in particular the bank and that we can eventually settle with the debtors about their stronger writings. Very short. The reprogrammes yielded about 3 billion kunas of reprogrammed debt. I must say, it's a pleasure to say that 88% of our claims are made by these programmes and charged, that this covers nearly 60 thousand employees in companies. Which means there were also significant large companies. When we talk about pre-fashion settlements then very clearly say that we received over 4,400 requests where it was reported for the settlements of 43.4 billion kuna and somewhere covered by these deals by 37 thousand employees. It's enough to say that we've done a good part of it and that somewhere we've made a settlement of over 8.2 billion for about 440 companies that employ about 8,000 employees. We are currently negotiating settlements of around 26.6 billion kuna, which employs 22,000 workers. So the results of the liquidity battle are also seen in a significant drop in blocked accounts where we came from 44.7 billion people under 37 billion kuna. All this means that a good part is made possible by companies with better quality operating conditions and the possibility of private companies entering the investment process. It may need to be noted that the government has estimated that there will be significant investment problems, so that is why we decided to help the economy and the capitalisation of the HBOR and by investing in HBOR funds. So, directly through the state investment bank, try to find solutions to investment. Then it is enough to say that we have provided 1.5 billion kunas of national money for the recapitalisation of HBOR and for the subsidy of interest in the two years since we are trying to secure lower interest. That last year we had a record amount of HBOR investments of more than 10.4 billion kuna, that for a good part for the first time from HBOR, we had most of the money invested in investment projects rather than restructuring. That, together with the National Bank, we have secured over 3.4 billion in the fight for liquidity and the refinancing of existing commitments of joint business banks and HBOR. Thus, a series of measures taken by the government to enable the private sector to survive the crisis in 2012. When we talk about the public sector, this is where we expected public enterprises to be more successful and that they might withdraw some of the investments, then it is necessary to say that we spent the whole year on restructuring processes. The most significant Croatian railways that have been completely devastated, which have spent money on the state budget, particularly money on pay-out subsidies. It was not invested in railways, it was not invested in maintenance, it was not invested in modernisation of passenger or freight transport. Yes, by the end of the year, the complete process has been completed. The first results will be seen now, and this is primarily the sale of freight traffic for the reason that it has been completely destroyed with debt by guarantees and incompetence and incompetence compared to other freight carriers in Europe. When we talk about travellers with completely out-of-date technology, over-expenses, over-costs, impossible to subsidize any line because heavy diesel locomotives that train and a hundred wagons of freighters cannot compete with passengers. And of course an abandoned infrastructure with very low speed and I would say the quality of transport. We managed to restructure this part unfortunately with bankruptcy procedures somewhere because it is obvious that the restructuring process is related to the resolution of surplus employees, poor organisational structures and everything is put into a competitive function. It's similar to highways that are simply too many people, bad loans they've been taking in recent years to finish the job. At this point, we have companies that are not actually able to service their debts for the next 10 years but will service the state budget, i.e. taxpayers through tax obligations, which means that the project is not set up properly. It is similar with Croatia Airlines and others. All this suggests that last year we were in restructuring, and that we were doing less investment and projects. And, of course, when we talk about projects, it's always the basic problem of ownership books and justice because in some ways we're trying to bring land books into line with Catastrian books so that they can meet more quality and faster requirements for new projects and new investments. So we didn't actually have enough potential for public companies to go into larger investments. Public companies should also say that we have a shipbuilding that has remained unstructured and with enormous debt in 2012 over 9.2 billion commitments for shipbuilding have been taken over, they have started with privatisation processes and we can say that with the 6th month we have completed privatisation processes. We pushed a shipyard into bankruptcy, we privatized Brodosplit with a Croatian entrepreneur, also Brodotrogir, and in some ways we combined the North Adriatic shipyards with the Uljannik privatisation. According to plans and privatisation contracts, the state still expects about 5 billion investments in shipbuilding to complete restructuring processes. Therefore, not all debts in shipyards are connected, but one more part remains. This is about what the government has been doing in the area of the economy, and it is evident that we do not have results in economic growth. The question remains, and what is this reason that although the economy had huge support for tax disbursement had far more capital at its disposal, I do not want to speak at all about that interest being significantly reduced, I would say in financing the economy by more than 40% means more favourable lending conditions. When we talk about HBOR projects then we have to say 12 and 15 years in interest 2, 3, 4% which is why there is no investment? Then we will also see that the private sector was unable to comply with the contractual obligations. It could have ended the highway to Ploč, it's not finished, it's embarrassing to see what's going on on the river bypass, it's not finished. We're not going to talk about a good date, it doesn't come to mind, here in central Croatia, we just don't have a private sector, we don't have a private sector, we don't have a construction sector that could have been responsible for finishing the contracts. They had contracts, the funds were at their disposal, we didn't have any. Then we're really wondering what happened in the last year with the private sector? And then we come to the basic fact that in the last 4 years the growth of the Croatian economy has been because a good part of the entrepreneurs invested in real estate business. One-off money is invested in the construction of unsold apartments, so no VAT is collected in the production of empty business spaces and in the purchase of land that are not carried out for any purpose. They destabilised their business, they re-indebted, they don't pay their commitments, and they're essentially jeopardizing their employees. A good part of Croatian private citizens, the Croatian private capital did just that, with five years ago being a real estate business in both America and Europe recognised as a risky job. And basically this whole time because when we look at the restructuring of the Designers, Dalekvoda, IGH, Nexa Grupa and other large systems that employ several thousand people and that this is the subject of our work then we see that in fact the private sector is due to bad decisions, bad investment policies simply created enormous problems from which obviously I cannot get out. And this was the reason that the Croatian state is very much present in all consolidation activities, especially financial consolidation and the private sector. The latter remains, could the Government of the Republic of Croatia in such a macroeconomic environment with such support for the Croatian economy, with such a view to the financial consolidation of the Croatian economy, have the state budget realised? And let's try to say a few words about it. Only on the note that 2011 ended with over 14 billion deficits, with a very high level of expenditure. The government's budget when we look at the revenues came true the way we rebalanced it. But if we compare it to 2011 then we conclude that the budget in the income thing is achieved by 2.3% higher. And now if you compare two index points or 2% lower economic growth. When you see that it was simply not possible to collect all income from the economy and taxpayers, however, there was 2.3% more income. I have to say that these 2.3% scientists are something that... the pain in the eye, so the government was declared last year by the government that introduces the tax press. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tax press. Now that you take that the government has introduced two reprogrammes, it has given the opportunity to write off interest, it has given the possibility to carry out obligations within 36 months. At the end of the year, the process of financial consolidation was launched through a pre-fashion settlement because higher revenues were made. And regardless of the decline of the gross social product, the government is called the tax press government. No, we were just far more responsible in charge. Yeah, the one who was importing goods at the border and didn't pay taxes because he couldn't cross the border. And it's interesting at five o'clock they paid taxes. Five hours after the goods were stopped. It just shows what we have in Croatia. A certain irresponsibility in payment. With the tax administration's behavior changes, customs, we've been given greater responsibility. We got more responsibility, no presses. You gave them the chance that if they couldn't pay, find other solutions. But there was no evidence that tax pay discipline was not present. And that's why we managed to charge somewhere tax revenues 5.3% more than in 2011. Someone's gonna say bigger VAT. It is, I agree, a larger VAT, but you will also allow a significant drop in household consumption, a significant drop in industrial production, thus charging a higher VAT. More was the decline in industrial production and the decline in household consumption than was VAT growth, higher. So it's obvious that we didn't even have any discipline in charge, so we changed it. Everyone would expect that we will have a significant drop in contributions because we have reduced two index points by contributions from health care. It wasn't like that. But the truth is we wanted to sanction banking if orders were paid for the net payout and they didn't contribute. We introduced a different discipline so that, despite the decline in the number of unemployed despite the reduction in rates, we do not record a significant drop in health contributions, pension contributions have grown. All this shows that the government has tried wherever it is possible to make a payment and at the same time to allow taxpayers to regulate their obligation differently if they have liquidity problems. And of course for the government, because the simplest thing is to always say that our problem is waste in the state budget. A special challenge was the spending side. How to control the spending side. For the simple reason that income is always estimated to mean higher taxes, the question is how much we can control the expenditure side. We made it with $119.8 billion. And if we compare that to 121.4 billion achievements in 2011, then we can say that it's about 1.3% less than in 2011. The question remains on which items have been reduced. And then we'll see that we've been cutting material costs, that we've been reducing irrational subsidies. If we'd managed 300 and something million to cut the salary, 340 million. And basically the government's spending reduction programme didn't come true only in that item because our program was to cut a billion and a half. The question remains, which is why we haven't cut down any more and you know how much the talks and negotiations have been, but the unions have called us out to make no sense for social dialogue. There was a huge dissatisfaction, and basically And basically, thank you very much, we see that we haven't had significant reductions in that part. [[Intruder: Honored Ministers bring an end.]] But we had an increase, an increase in expenditures on interest. So somewhere over 2.8 billion is our savings when we're watching, when we're looking at total reductions without this increase. And all of this resulted in a 3% deficit in the central account and a total deficit of 3.4 at the consolidated state level. Maybe just mention that, you also got a full report on the fiscal rule in 2012...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46677	You'll have a chance to speak to the Honorable Minister. Thank you very much. Now we're going to the replicas first. We've reported six replicas. The first replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46678	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government. It's not that I don't recognize the work and the workers, I appreciate you trying, I prefer the worker and the one who resists something rather than the unemployed who can never make a mistake. However, I would refer to one sentence of yours, one thought as part of the pre-banking settlements that you said was significantly reduced indifference, that it opened up the possibility of better investment, improving this or that and so on. I can't take the impression, Mr. Vice President, that this process of pre-privileged settlements in some variant is another just rougher form of conversion and privatisation because those who have been bailed out by conversion and privatisation often received and often received businesses in difficulty. And now, in this process of pre-fashion settlements usually meshetars, a series of mechanics get businesses with a clean start, clean businesses, and it seems to me that this pre-fashion process is to some extent cleaning the ground that the Josephic law on non-adhesive irregularities from conversion and privatisation would no longer have what to do, would have nothing to refer to. What you're saying is that it's reduced by so many billions, by 40 I know how much you gave it, the state gave it to it, and then you could by one act, let's bring me here the law, raise my hands to the state to give what's hers, and then it's going to cut right off, it's going to fall to 5, 6, 10 billion, and it's going to sort of line up, and that's about it. I have objections to this bankruptcy, pre-determined what the law is or that pre-demand settlement in the sense that I'm gradually getting more and more in some way restrained about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46679	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46680	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I'd like to direct you to the FINA web portal where you can look at any pre-fashion settlement. Let me just mention that we have new owners in large pre-war deals. One of the basic conditions was that owners couldn't remain owners. So there's no need to tell you that there's another owner in Dalekvod, that another owner in Spachva is that we... talk about another owner. Therefore, all those who caused excessive debts and were ineffective, whether because of the crisis, whether because of the wrong investments, did not remain owners. In one part of the property they entered..., in the other part some other investors because they also needed capitalization. Therefore, if you try and look at the reports of each part of the settlement, you will see that they are not the same and that it is not at all like the system of conversion and privatisation. What I can say about smaller companies up to 10 million kunas, processes are a bit simpler, yet only entrepreneurs are there and they are given reliefs within the context of the write-off. And what you also need to know, the state may be 1/3, the second third is the suppliers who have agreed well with it and are also financial institutions and banks. In pre-war deals, we don't just have the state, we just have a series of creditors who agree. So also look at how much the total has been reported. When we say that 36 billion more requests have been reported, then you must know that the state is far less in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46681	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46682	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, in the opening section, you have therefore set basic objectives and financial consolidation and investment and the battle for economic growth. Each area received your presentation for a certain time, of course most of it was this financial part, but we look at the most part of this economic growth, I'm on that part, and I expect, in that part, it's certainly a new job, of course, and everything else. But in that part and many of you have mentioned areas, but one branch that is strategic, everyone swears it's strategic, which is agriculture. I didn't get a chance to feel it, but that's why I'm here to remind you, to say something about that part. And agriculture, by the way, is looking at this statistical part of a billion and 300 million is less than 2011. I know you're all going to say right now, you see, these are the support that was like this, even though I am responsible for saying that the support in agriculture has yielded results over the past time, as well as increased quantities of milk, meat and everything else. But let's let go of this support now, and I think the other problem is, and I would like to warn this place that there have been some mistakes made in the steps of the relevant Ministry, primarily in relation to the dairy. To this day, no so-called rulebook has been made. a milk package which, of course, our mutilate farmers, dairy. Now these days, the purchase of wheat is current, etc., and I say 1.05 kuna is the price, and the price of the crop is 1.40 kuna. These are illogicalities, and these days rural development measures are listed as those that can be achieved, and in the field it happens not to be able to. It means you don't do quality work right. There's a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46683	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46684	Unfortunately, there's too much incentive for any results. That is the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You can have your calculations. Less agricultural surfaces that were under processing than four, five years ago when the enormous incentives started, less. Bigger imports, smaller food production, smaller. Unfortunately, many abuses in the use of incentives. Therefore, the reduction in incentives that were in 2012 did not have any results on larger or lower production. In fact, dynamically even paid by half of the sixth month this year is fully paid. So, we can say whatever we want, but obviously, the incentives are not the problem of agricultural production. They're not incentives. And it's obvious that there's a need for a simple policy change in that part. We now have a simple European policy, we will have European funds. Is something going to change that we'll just see. Therefore, when we talk about agriculture, we have also made it very clear that it is important for us to round up production to stop dividing the land, reduce the surface, and that simply if we want competitive agricultural production, then we must circle and have serious producers. It's a major change from change, from a policy that meant cleavage and as many people as possible who will get state support. We've changed that, and believe me, it's going to change even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46685	Thank you very much. Dear representative Martina Dalic and your replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46686	Mr. Minister, you devoted your exposure to the reasons and objectives you wanted to achieve by economic policy measures in 2012. However, we are today at 7 months 2013. 2013 is the year in which your results are reflected, precisely this economic policy you tried to explain, and the data you published on the implementation of the State budget in 2013 are alarming and worrying. In five months, the income is minus a billion and a sixth, the planned increase of three and a half. In five months, expenditures increased by two and a half billion, or fifty percent planned. You said yourself, in six months, there was an annual deficit. You yourself know that you would keep yourself in the gauges of that deficit in the second half of the year, the budget on average would have to be balanced. That's not possible. That won't be possible. State finances, therefore, as a result of what you have explained in these half-hours are facing difficult problems, are threatened not only with the inability to maintain deficits, but also with problems related to their own stability. Ministers, these topics are much more important than what you will do and how you will do, than everything that happened last year. Because I repeat in 2013 is the result of your measures and your conduct of economic policy. There's no more excuses. And what we see is very worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46687	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46688	Fellow MPs, if the agenda item were called 6 months of the 2013 report, I would talk about 2013. So you'll have that, and you'll have that point, and we'll talk for six months. You know, I remember your words very well when we talked about the 2012 budget very well – alarming, nothing, all wrong, the budget is overrated, revenues overrated. Remember that? I remember very well. That's not how it turned out. As you can see, the deficit is 3%. So if we're going back, don't let me read you what you said, don't. So now we're talking about 2012. 2012 was the result of government work with Zoran Milanovic. This is the result of the work of the Government of Zoran Milanovic So, at nine months, we'll talk about six months. [[President: Do not interfere, let him speak. Please, nice fellow. Let the minister speak. Don't! You've had your chance, you'll have your chance. Everything's in order. Okay? Thank you.]] Yeah, we'll talk. You can scare the citizens again that they won't come true, that there won't be any income, that's all you can say. In 9 months, we'll discuss six months of budget implementation and it's not a problem. But obviously, it's essential to you to scare the citizens. Then inform them how many debts you have left and why the debts are not in the books, but why the Government of Zoran Milanovic includes them in books. Is that what we're gonna talk about? When we say that debts are the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia, an item that is growing enormously is called interest, not because we were in debt. Therefore, let us not open debates that are not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46689	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46690	Well, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament obviously the minister doesn't want to talk about anything but what he was talking about, so I'll stick to what's on the agenda. So, Mr. Minister, it's not true that you didn't know what the state of the country was when you arrived. You simply had a series of data and indicators and your shipbuilding story is incorrect simply in all the reports about the implementation of the state budget and the adoption of the budget, you are told the guarantees. However, Mr. Minister, you should remember the case when it was disputed whether you could give a guarantee for "3. May," when the city from which you are coming decided on the City Council that they will give a guarantee even though it is illegal. So much for consistency when we're in power and we're out of power. But it's in this whole story that doesn't matter. It's something else that matters. So, you were talking about income. You're saying the revenues were going great, so look at the VAT, so last year, actually 2011. 37 billion and 700, this year 40 billion 652. Based only on VAT increases with 2 percentage points and 1 percentage point carries a billion and 600 million. That's 3 billion and 200. Or if you're looking at the percentage, that's about 8.7% increase somewhere, and if you take inflation was 3,7, 3.8, that's basically an increase in base, and when you raise a percentage, you can talk about 12.13%. And if we watch how prices and prices went in 2011, then we should watch what a family basket is. You have to buy electricity, you have to buy gas because without it you can't live, and that's where the prices went 20 and 37% of 1.07. And no one's attacking you for this. Let's open a dialogue today on all the problems that bother you but you can't ignore that some things you didn't know. You are from the HBOR analysis of the conduct of models A, B and C precisely had a structure for why the Croatian economy is unable to raise loans. These are facts you can't escape from. But let's talk, let's not fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46691	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46692	Comrade Shuker, when did you hear Slavko Linic say he didn't know what was waiting for him? When did you hear that? Why are you making this up? I never, ever, ever say that we didn't know what was waiting for us, never. You won't hear that from me. Because I'm a written man, and I know something about finances, and just because I've been in Assembly benches doesn't mean I've been sleeping. So, all that's here is. On the other hand, where you heard from me that I'm not talking about this government or that government, I'm talking about what was found and what had to be done. 9.2 billion could have been registered in 2011, could have been because it was not about guarantees, but it was about the laws under which the shipyards were granted compensation for me to say the taken-off maritime good. That's what the law said, it was passed if I wasn't wrong in 2010, and it wasn't even registered in 2011, we registered in 2012. That's what I'm saying. Therefore, some things can be done. It wasn't done. We did it. And what we say is our biggest problem, I haven't been able to talk about it, is a debt that climbs enormously. We're also talking about health care, and in six months we'll be talking about the health problem, the enormous 5.5 billion kuna of unpaid bills. It's all a matter to talk about. You're not going to see any controversy about who's to blame, who's to blame. I only claim that unfortunately the records are not in line with real conditions in Croatia, especially on debt. So you won't hear from me a fight, but I don't like it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46693	Thank you. A new replica and a respected representative, Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46694	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, at the very beginning of your presentation, you presented macroeconomic data that should be repeated once again, of course, for 2012. The decline in social product is more than 2% and 2% respectively, the decline in industrial production 5%, the decline in consumption by more than 6% and the rise in unemployment by more than 40,000. So it was an absolute record. And it's actually a true and completely realistic picture of what you did, and you confirmed it in Mrs. Dalic's replica because you said these were the results of the government policy of Zoran Milanovic, you explicitly said so. However, in the very explanation of the reasons that you state in your presentation, of course in your old manner, you accuse everyone else and, of course, entrepreneurs who cannot understand your phenomenal economic shifts, or the conditions you create for them. Well, they don't invest, they fire people, they're all bad. Like all the bad guys are obviously except you in this society. It is not true that you have spent your economic recovery, it is known that the cost of Croatian economy entrepreneurs has increased by more than 10% in the past year. And these are actually the causes of all these indicators both in this year and unfortunately that continue what Mrs. Dalic said this year. So, another of course the lies you said, which is that you started the privatisation process. You barely finished it. So, you sold Brodosplit to a bidder based on whose restructuring program we completed the negotiations in 2011. You know that very well. You also sold Brodotrogir to the bidder on the basis of whose restructuring programme we completed negotiations to join the EU in 2011. 3. May the same restructuring program only to the other bidder. How will it end will we see it yet, and completely unnecessary
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46695	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46696	I'm sorry, there's going to be more opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46697	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46698	Okay, I see you care about the fight. I like to argue about it won't be easy 324,323 is the data on the number of unemployed. [[Intruder: We know that.]] According to you 40 grand higher, officially 18,990. As much as you're telling the truth. You're talking about entrepreneurs who are 10% burdened and we've introduced two index points of health reduction, four parafiscal burdens we've reduced and then you have to explain to me what the entrepreneurs are burdened with? The interest rate is 40% lower in 2012 than in 2011. HBOR interest rates 2, 3 and 4% what are higher? What taxes? Do you perhaps want to tell me about VAT then I must warn you VAT is not paid by entrepreneurs, it is paid by citizens, mostly by citizens. And that we were a burden to the citizens, yes, we were a burden to them, and all for the benefit of the entrepreneurs. Therefore, the easiest thing to do is to throw numbers behind which you have no confirmation. Don't do that, it's really impossible to deal with false data, don't do that. And everything's okay, you're estimating that you were also in the government's former that you completed the privatisation. Great, I'd love to give you both the pleasure of negotiating with the DIV and the Uljanic and the decision on the Queen's shipyard, I'd really like to miss out on you, but you didn't have the courage. You didn't want to make those decisions, let the new government make it. Why? Well, the easiest way is to lamentate from the bench like this. You had time to do the job, you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46699	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46700	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you were talking about unpaid tax revenues, of course the bill was good then in 12 years, the unpaid tax revenues would not amount to 50 billion kuna, it's undeniable. It is undeniable that tax revenues are in part higher in 2012 as a result of more effective collection, partly due to VAT increases, partly due to price increases, and partly due to inflation tax. This and the economic downturn suggest that economic policy instruments were effective when it comes to the collection of tax revenues, but that they were not effective enough when it comes to economic activity. And one important segment in the economy you do very well, but we still lack the fiscal capacity of the state, and the fiscal capacity comes from the strength of the national economy, and the strength of the national economy is linked to the structure of the national economy. That is why I think that in the future all of its strength needs to be directed economically towards changing the structure of the national economy. And I hope you will agree that the structure of the national economy can only be changed by the simultaneous change in credit-monetary policy and selective tax policy. And I think the most important thing in the future would be to draw attention to such instruments of economic policy, and then, apart from the efficiency of the charge by changing national structures, the fiscal capacity will increase, and then the debts of the Republic of Croatia will be able to be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46701	Thank you, too. We continue to work in the plenary session. Now it's the State Audit Office's representative, I think. The intruder doesn't understand. I didn't understand. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the applicant, the Report on the audit carried out of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget on behalf of the Proposer Ivan Klešić, the Chief State Auditor. Here you go, Mr. State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46703	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected and esteemed MPs and MPs. In front of you, the 2012 report on the annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia submitted by the State Audit Office to the Croatian Assembly within the deadline provided for. The audit procedures shall verify the accuracy of the data provided in the annual report, the application of the provisions of the laws and regulations governing budgetary relations and budgetary principles and rules. The audit covers business processes organised under the Ministry of Finance in the Treasury, which relate to the preparation and implementation of the budget, the State Accounting and the management of cash and public debt. In order to express its opinion on the 2012 Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget, the functioning of the internal financial control system within the framework of the planning and implementation of the state budget, the achievement of revenue and revenue and expenditure in accordance with the planned, borrowing, issuing of guarantees and the granting of appropriations from the budget. In addition, the organisation and accounting management of the state budget has been examined. On the basis of the audit of the facts identified, the conditional opinion was expressed, which was affected by irregularities and failures of established audits in previous years, which were not removed and irregularities and failures in 2012. The areas in which irregularities are identified relate to accounting operations and financial reporting, state guarantees and the use of budgetary supplies. In the context of the accounting business, it has been found that there is no information in the financial reports of the state budget on claims for the most significant revenues of the state budget, such as taxes, contributions, specific taxes, as well as state property data. Furthermore, no specific potential obligations are recorded which may be charged in the next period by the State budget on the basis of a solution to court disputes, settlements and enforcement. In addition, new financial guarantees that are 700 million kuna or 15.6% higher than the prescribed € 4.5 billion were found to be available and that certain expenditures that were predictable and could be planned from the budget stock were made. Although irregularities identified earlier years have not been removed, it has been estimated that the planning and implementation process of the state budget has been improved. The implementation of a project for the integration of information systems, sectoral treasures with a state treasury system is under way, followed by the establishment of a Register of Public Sector Employees and a project for the construction of a single foreign exchange account and the automation of foreign payment traffic, which is expected to further improve in budgetary processes, executions and reporting. All such audits of the facts identified shall be described in this report before you. With my associate, I will try to answer all your questions, and I thank you all for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46704	Thank you, too, dear state auditors. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? Yeah. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Honored Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46705	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with his associates, Chief State Auditor. Therefore, at its 40th session held on 10 June 2013, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed it as a home working body under its jurisdiction under Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and discussed the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2012. He also discussed all the extra budget reports, annual reports on the implementation of the Croatian Waters financial plan, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the Croatian Roads Financial Plan, the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and bank recovery and the Agency's National Property Management Plan and the 2012 Report on the implementation of fiscal rules. The Prime Minister's opening statement, of course, you heard, so I won't speak, or repeat, by this segment on behalf of the board. In short, it was pointed out in the discussion on the Committee that the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 showed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia managed to take a number of measures aimed at rerouting the tax burden from labour to consumption, as well as to strengthen fiscal discipline to contribute to the creation of preconditions for raising entrepreneurial competitiveness. In addition, the debate stated that it was able to keep under control and the deficit of the state budget. In fact, the total deficit of a consolidated general state was achieved at 11.2 billion kuna or at 3.4% of GDP level, down by 0.2 percentage points compared to the planned deficit. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Budgets and Finance of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of an annual report with all other reports attached. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament also discussed the annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. The introduction you heard from the main state auditor, so I will only give you a brief opinion in the debate on the Committee that better information integration of the accounting information systems of the district treasury with the State Treasury system will allow better insight into the business of the users of the state budget, supervision and control in the achievement of the budgetary commitments, and the planned future consumption and contribute to the removal of most of the irregularities which have been expressed by the conditional opinion in this report, and after the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament has unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament which accepts the report on the audit carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46706	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Board. Do the presidents of the other committees want to take part in the debate, the report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Independent Representatives and Honored Representative Ivan Grubisic. Here's your esteemed representative, part one, and part two of my colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46707	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, Chief State Inspector, I welcome you all and take a word in matter that is not close to me or I particularly deal with it. But I'm open to hearing different opinions and different suggestions. Surely it is necessary to hear different opinions and to open up what MP Shuker said dialogue, not confrontation, and that, according to one story, the debate that was being held by the bird is more important to fly left or right. I think that debate is without success. In order for birds to fly, both wings are needed, both in the Croatian Parliament and in the lower bodies of the county congregations, in order to solve the problems for which we are in charge, it is necessary to go the other way, not to discuss which wing is more important, but both wings for flight are important, equally important. In my opinion, quoting a direct statement by Minister Linic it is obvious that there are no expected results in our economic and social crisis. That's what he said, and I agree with that, and I would like this House to come up with some attitudes to overcome the crisis, and my opinion is that there should be no privileges in the Alliance for Civil, Ethical Croatia at the time of the crisis. This is not the way to go, we have asked for the root changes and the cutting of all privileges that are not a fruit of work and which are not a fruit of interest, but are political privileges, interesting privileges and they destroy Croatia and the Croatian economy. That is why I now advocate that the valley of privilege was on a personal or institutional level, not to burden the budget because at a time of crisis it is necessary to look after and invest it where jobs are kept or new jobs are being created and new values are being created. This also requires a change, a radical change in the way the Croatian Parliament works and lower institutional levels such as the County and the City and Municipal Councils. In order to achieve a more effective way of solving the problem, my opinion is that a working group of representatives of different political options should also be held in the Croatian Parliament to take a political position on the priorities to be discussed and on the projects that are planned to be discussed. This political body would not be a legislative body, nor would usurp the right of MPs but would allow an agreement to be reached and then members of individual groups to appear, defend or present their opinions accordingly. But it would help us to come up with priorities to be discussed and to achieve political consensus. We're boasting it's okay that we've been chosen by the people, but here I'm asking the question that before the election, we've allegedly created lists and entered the Parliament's list, not directly by electing MPs. I am in favour of amending the Constitutional Law, that is, electoral legislation, so that MPs and council members can be elected by name and last name so that they can really have a reasoned position, that they are directly elected by the people and represent a particular population. If we don't, then we'll whisper with a call to the voter's will because we're actually nominated on election lists by the will of the party we belong to. I agree with the presentation of Minister Linic, but these are attempts where he tries to get out of this big hole that we have entered but do not give the expected fruit. The expected fruit could occur if we were to take root changes to three levels. At the level of promotion of democratisation and democratic procedure, at the level of the new quality of electoral legislation and at the level of social justice. This will be difficult to achieve in this very conflicting way of thinking and mental circuits but it is always good to appeal because I am convinced that there are always people who are willing to accept new challenges and new solutions to achieve new successes. What the government is doing, in my opinion, is good at intentions but not enough to achieve results. So there should also be one turn in my opinion to do as much as possible, because with good wishes there is an old saying that the path to hell is paved by good wishes. But we're looking for results and the people are asking us for results. The follow-up to this debate will be attended by Mr Cain, who will say more in particular about this draft Budget Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46708	Thank you, too. The second part on behalf of the Club of Independent Honored Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46709	Your Honor, Mr. President, Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46710	Excuse my colleague Cain, before the replica of the presentation of the respected representative Ivan Grubisic. First of all, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46711	Well, here's my thanks, Mr. President. I didn't mean to talk about milk, but when I'm here, my colleague Vinkovic, then I'll definitely continue on that trail, and I'll repeat that the milkers are definitely neglected and not equally legal. But I agree with you, colleague Grubisic, and that you are open to a different opinion and that every wing is important. And in that part, and you said that some of them were let's tell our brothers and sisters to tell your dictionary that they were privileged. And I want to speak for those who are unjustly accused of being privileged and privileged. And these are our farmers. Today, we heard that they were unjust and were misusing the support they had raised in the agriculture production of milk and meat. And they've achieved some results. But now, and it's not true that they've been misusing, they've improved that agricultural production, but now they're being treated unfairly and they're not equal to legal. They suffered a severe blow, and this production is also treated in a discriminatory way. That's what's not good, and the consequence has what you're talking about at the end, and that's not economic growth, but the economic downturn, resulting in an increased number of unemployed, because every family agricultural economy if that other part of it goes to waste ends up at the Employment Office. So these are the things that we should talk about the same in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46712	Thank you, too. I knew it was agriculture, so I gave a replica past the Rules of Procedure. Now respected representative Damir Cain, part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46713	Mr. President, Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, what do you say about the execution of this budget? The opinion of the State Audit is positive, but it is always such and clearly not binding on other institutions. But surely that opinion is also a framework for us MPs. When we look at the plan of the account and the revenue of the expenditure then the financing for 2012 we see that the business income account is 105.6 billion kuna, changes and additions to 110 billion kuna. The proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets 301 million kuna were planned and 284, operating expenditures were planned 117, total expenditure also increased by some 2 billion, billions and 500 million kuna, the deficit reached 9.9 billion kuna. When we look at the account of financing the receipts of the financial assets of $11.2 billion, the expenditure on the repayment of the loans of €11.2 billion, the total budget of HRK 131 billion. Clearly, what is also a question today is whether Croatia can go through this year without, for example, rebalancing even though this report for the past year is hardly impossible. The problem is what the Minister of Health 5 billion kuna borrows from the state to resuscitate the work of the clinical hospital centres of general hospitals. If the state hadn't decided in 2013, let's say the general hospitals were broken down by the same companies and agencies and all those for which the county corresponds in solidarity, they are not only hospitals but even schools. If that hadn't happened in Istria, if the state hadn't taken over a hospital of about 180 million kuna, I don't know what would have happened. The other problem that is opening this year is highways, something the minister mentioned in the concession or not. Here's a Buick with a concession and Istria and where's the problem now? We all hope that the ipilon will be on its way by 2013. Yesterday I spoke to Mr. Doncic and if the Market Competition Agency did not see any reason why 500 builders would not return to work. Otherwise, I will say all the budgets of the Istrian County last year, 42 units of local and regional self-government amounted to a billion 500 million kuna, withdrawing from the budget a billion 300 million kuna, never as before. How many of us have invested in highways since 2000 without the concessionaries? cca 41 billion kuna, 1/3 means this year's budget. but the point is what are the obligations on the basis of loans 2013, 2014 and 2015? HAC and the Rijeka-Zagreb highway have the meaning HAC 20 billion kuna long-term liabilities, the Rijeka-Zagreb Highway 6.8 billion kuna. This year, 447m euros must be returned, with a total of 898m euros or a billion 345m euros in 2014. By 2016, the two companies must return 2.4 billion euros of credit or 18 billion kuna in three years. So what now? and that's cca 20% of the one-year budget, 6% of the annual budget should be paid back every year. And I'm afraid there's really no other down concession, I'm also saddened by it, but it's so hard to just get out of this skin. And whatever someone thinks or I would be if the euro were introduced to Croatia as soon as possible, regardless of what the Italians and many others are protesting, but how we will serve both exports and loans and other obligations, and the condition for this is price stability, low public debt, low interest, a stable exchange rate, and only this last one has been achieved. What to say, and the borrowing of 21 billion kuna speaks for itself as well. This is 1/5 of the budget so that it can serve previous commitments. It is not good, and yet the citizens of Croatia have the highest confidence in the Ministry of Finance and this says that citizens have simply become aware of the problem and the moment in which the country is located. Those 2% of GDP minus in 2012. GDP percapita fell from 2008, inflation was 4.9%, net salary was only 1.2% higher and what is the most important investment in long-term assets in 2008 amounted to 83 billion kuna and 2012. 46.6 billion kuna and in that part lies almost all the problems that lie ahead of us today. It is clear that the opposition must have its own proposals and the contrary, it is also positive, but I repeat, for the survival of the nation as such, first and foremost, the conditions are arranged for finances and the functioning of as much of the rule of law. Unfortunately, on the basis of that Bible account of seven fat and seven skinny cows, I think we're about to have some way to say good two more years of crisis before we break out of all this. And finally, I was denied to say something about the Day of Remembrance of Srebrenica, that a genocide such as Europe has not remembered since World War II took place in Srebrenica, and the same thing happened in Vukovar even though "numbers" on the side of Srebrenica. Equal drinking to everyone. Never again war in Croatia, never again war in BiH, never more destruction in Croatia, never more destruction in BiH, never more genocide in BiH or Croatia, never more victims of Srebrenica and Vukovar, Skabrnje, Ahmić and so on. A clear genocide in BiH has been committed by Mladic's Saltate, as should be said there are no genocide people, and in some ways this has happened because of the passiveness of international troops.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46714	Thank you very much. Your Honor, that's not appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46715	It's not appropriate, but you denied me those five minutes outside the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46716	I didn't deny you anything. Don't use it. Thank you very much. We're done. Thank you very much. There have been reports of replicas reported to your presentation. We're going in a row and the first replica is Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46717	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As usual, Kajin went everywhere and cited a series of data, and as far as the highway is concerned, however, the key information did not specify and this is the one concerning the end from which he comes and this is Buick and how much the country forgives Buick of VAT, then you will see that in that concession contract, it is certainly the Republic of Croatia that participates. Therefore, it is simple to list that HAC has its obligations. You could also tell how much HAC and AZR each year have toll revenue and their costs. But I repeat, the key thing is if you are already talking about the concessionaire then you should say that in that concession the Republic of Croatia participates annually, so almost when they strengthen the investment... with several hundred million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's something the minister can say about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46718	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46719	So you have to tell me who signed those bad contracts in some way. The former prime minister and former minister, let's say, finance. And what's left for you today? We today have first of all to tell people the truth about how to push in three years two commas, I don't know, three billion euros or 18 billion kuna. Who simply caused this burden? That should also be said. We have the same, we face Mr. Shucker every day with one demagogy that's hard to explain. So here we read every day that residents of certain parts of the Republic of Croatia do not want to pay those 20 kunas for the passage of the tunnel through Biokovo. Istria pays or those who pass through Učka tunnel, Učka, 29 kuna for 5236 meters. It's about the residents of 50% of that amount. It's true what you're saying is that concessionaire Buick Istria has been released from VAT. And today, the agency is considering a solution to get into business in a way that will extend their concession contracts by 4, 5 or more years. And the fact is that every year the budget provides a hundred million kunas, that they can finance themselves and that they are no altruists but taxpayers' money clearly on these premises build the road but also earn something. And what's important is that this tunnel, not me, but my parents, might be Silvano Hrelja if it's something older and he was working between that tunnel and we've been giving out a whole one salary for that tunnel, a whole one salary. And in the end, for the bonds you got, he said you could afford one of those shoes. All in all, yes, no one gives us anything. We'll have to build and pay for it ourselves. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] And pay off the loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46720	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46721	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Cain, you're in your debate, I don't know if you're mistaken, but you said or announced a possible new rebalancing, maybe you skipped one, we already had one, then there was a campaign, so maybe you forgot, no. We will have more rebalancing in view of the current results of the budget. Then you said that for every country, the functioning of the rule of law and the stability of public finances is important. And what do you say to that? If you're an investor and a job is either being or not being every government and this. If you came at the beginning of this session at 4 months in Croatia as an investor and went back and after three months, it will now end this session 8th in a row. We managed to change 150 laws. Is that the stability of the rule of law, is that why investors are running away from us, or are they just taxes? What authority can afford such luxury? Well, no one's getting along here anymore. This is the instability of the rule of law. With this problem are lawyers, lawyers. We change ten laws a day. Can anyone stop this at all? It's a fundamental question for me in this country. Every session of 100 laws. I, as far as my experience with other countries is concerned, do not know those countries that are so often under some laws and several times in the same session. For what? It is precisely a clear message to those on whom growth and economic development depend. And because of that, their criticism is justified and our results are weaker, no matter how much you as a representative of the ruling coalition always support them and welcome them no matter how bad they've always been.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46722	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46723	Yeah, I've talked about it more than once, and here we change about three hundred laws a year, and it's really hard to get a chance. Whether it's about judges who enforce laws, lawyers, whether it's about us being lawyers who would vote all of this on some, who we don't have a chance to get information about, because you know how you're left to yourself rather than to professional services. And that's one of the reasons for the instability. I'm not going to say that this will cause budget rebalances and this year, but surely because of the deficits in the first six months, we can expect it. However, I would also like to say that if this government guarantees only two things, it means the functioning of the rule of law, it means justice for everyone not just for some. Not only for those up to 2 thousand kunas that are being paid somewhere but also for those who have become pillars of society and have raised over 2 million or 20 million euros and then we can move on. And to be able to move on, there is also something else that is needed, and there is the role of Mr Linic's Ministry of Finance and the state as a whole. We should have arranged finances so that one pension and one health care and I don't know the system of these public services didn't collapse. So the country doesn't get into a situation where it can't serve external obligations. If this government succeeds in these two things, guarantee the functioning of the rule of law and arrange finance for those who will inherit this administration almost did everything under quotes. What's certainly good is that VAT, for example, on real estate, will not be touched by 2016. It is good that by 2016, the first real estate will be as burdened as it has been so far, other real estate as it has been, and if it stays that way, maybe we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46724	Thank you very much. Time's up. A new replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46725	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, we never thank the government very much on your part. You've turned into the greatest advocate of the highway monetization. Bad administration, bad furniture has Istria now manageable in your opinion,...monetizing Istria. The council just spends, doesn't serve anything, let's do him, what this building is doing here, I don't know what it's doing. But I did report for a replica regarding your statement that the state has rehabilitated the hospitals. The state didn't resuscitate anything, unfortunately, I wish it was a recovery. It's the payment of an account that someone made in the bureau and the government now took the money and went there in the stock market in New York or London and brought and paid. It's nothing... and you don't understand it like Mr. Linic won't understand. It's not touched in the health care system, it's not touched in an institution like one hospital, it's not touched in labor, it's not touched in consumption and it's not touched in the right of patients. No Mr. Caine's recovery, this is just a nice name to put in frames of existing furniture. I don't mind, let me tell you frankly, let the state take over the county hospitals, let them put their people in charge, nothing against it, but let's just say, what kind of recovery you're talking about. It's a sin to use the word and recovery and to put these people poor... to the sanity manager.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46726	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46727	Well, if the recovery is then the fact that these five billion kunas are undermining obligations that, first of all, the county as founders cannot follow. I only know that the general hospital's obligations in Pula have reached no less than 180 million kuna, that it is more than 50% of the County budget of Istria without counting agencies and so on, and that someone has not taken it upon themselves to break down and county as institutions and its agencies and general hospitals and patients and all others for whom the county has a solidarity guarantee. I mean here at school, I mean here at some other facility, etc. And as far as monetization is concerned, it is not necessary for Istria as you would say to monetize, it should not be given to anyone by Italy, Slovenia or ex Yugoslavia. Perhaps the Istrians would say yes if Austria were to monetize us. And today the Istrians are talking about... Austria, blessed Austria. God forbid some of those values come back to some place.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46728	New replica...... /The noise in the hall./... The desires of the individuals with the coffee, not the Parliament, please. We continue with replicas and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic and your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46729	I won't continue this after '45. And before '45, I don't think that makes any sense, and that Mr. Cain probably now thought and said one total nonsense but good. Well, Mr. Cain, about the budget. So this is not some complex process as President Milanovic said, which the average human mind cannot understand, but is primarily one system that is linked to a number of other laws and to the entire tax policy that has been implemented over the past year and a half. And after a year and a half in any case, we can't go back to the past now, in the '90s, 2000, 2003, 2008, the causes are known. We know that Croatia is responsible as Greece, that this is now determined by Europe and that we have crossed the 3% deficit, etc., but the results of this budget and tax policy over the past year and a half have been defeated. We have an increase in the number of unemployed, we have a decline in industrial production, a drop in economic activity, a decline in gross national income, we have an increase in imports, a reduction in exports, etc., we have a decline in population standards, we have an increase in all prices, and that is the result of both the budget and budget deficits, and that is the result above all of this tax policy. Someone here mentioned root changes, twists, and I don't know what. This kind of tax policy has destroyed the entire local self-government, no decentralisation. The exit from this crisis is decentralisation, not centralisation of Croatia, not what is also related to the budget, which is this proposal for a law on governance and the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. That's the way out of this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46730	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46731	Right, you're right, Mr. Representative, Croatia is going through a fifth year of crisis. And don't think that crisis in these areas or that we won't be facing this crisis for at least two years. But before I tell you anything about it, just to say that stupidity isn't that Istria was the fastest progress during Austria, it's true. What would Istra look like without one of Austria, to make Pula look like without one of Austria? But no matter what, Croatia is our country and we will develop this country ourselves or "brake in development". We'll improve it ourselves, or we'll stop that development. And just today I read an article even though I personally have some reserves on it, so that GDP could reach a positive zero after a long period of time in the second quarter. I quote, in the second quarter of this year there should be no economic downturn compared to the previous quarter, analysts from the Economic Institute have concluded on the basis of value growth, etc. etc. In order to conclude whether the Croatian economy is still in recession to wait for the announcement of values for June and July, although I dare say that one who will survive, especially those small businessmen these two years and today is somehow in front of a purgatory, will almost pass one hell of a life will live forever. If they are not helped, and will not be helped with interest of 12 or more percent as predicted by yesterday's law which should still be supported because it gives a new chance to restructure those small entities then...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46732	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Allow the esteemed representative to, uh, go with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46733	Mr. Winkovic, allow me to replicate. And only one note to you right to stupidity is guaranteed by the Constitution. Mr. Cain, you were as much as I recall earlier against the monetization, but let's face it, it's about concessions only by one inappropriate notion of a Croatian citizen. You said a sentence unfortunately highways must be given in concessions, there's no other way. It's a quote. The thing is, there isn't just one solution, if we weren't in front of the wall, if there was only one solution, it would be very sad. There's debt reprogramming, there's bond issues, and besides, since you haven't thought about there's a start to the economy, there's economic growth. The government should create conditions that Mr. Linic has talked about many times. With one part of him when he talks about the owners, I completely agree. It's not all because of the government. Great Croatian managers should be analysed for what they did and for destroying everything in Croatia thanks to the donated companies that HDZ donated to them because they were close to HDZ. That's not what you're talking about in the Parliament. No one will take a concession on the road if he doesn't earn well, if he won't be allowed to fire the workers and if he won't form the prices, normally the ones we can pay. However, when will he not deal with profit, who will make up for what is to be earned? Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, that's what we're doing, anyway. That's what we do, we pay, we pay on several roads. So, we do. He wants to convince the people that the only thing we can do is sell. So what if we sell Croatia's insurance, the Croatian postal bank, when we sell everything. So what do we do? Does anyone have an answer to that?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46734	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46735	Absolutely, I agree. I need to start an economy. Here's my proposal, Mr. Representative, one small company, so face these challenges, so you would immediately replace your position in that company with the place where you and I are sitting today and there is no more difficult challenge today in the Republic of Croatia than leading a small company. I only know one thing that last year we had to charge 21 billion kuna, and I know, now I can't find that paper to charge for the next three years, it comes 18 billion kunas only higher and higher commitments on the basis of concession contracts or contracts on the financing of Croatian highways and highways of Rijeka to Zagreb. So next year we have to pay back 900 million euros, this year we return about 450 million euros, the next year we return about 800, 900 million euros. And now I'd like to see who's just gonna buy a bond from the citizens of these highways. Well, if there was, I don't know what kind of a guarantee of just that offering. I also claim that it is easy to burn the people. There's no problem in the referendum either. The problem is that in an open way, he does not want to tell people the truth, and the truth is that these highways alone cannot finance these obligations and that in three years together with this one should be returned 18 billion kuna, kuna. The income is zero. The income is just a loss.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46736	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the proposer's representative for the sake of the Croatian public, I would like to say that the wishes or regrets of certain representatives for the former states or empires are not within the scope and jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament or institutions. It is a private desire, a private attitude and has the right to democracy to have such a desire. Therefore, let us end with such desires in the Croatian Parliament. Okay. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46737	Mr. President, it's not my wish or my wish. I'm just saying that there's a winged woman in Istria today. you would have the right to give an opinion. [[President: What have I done wrong to a respected representative or someone else?]] In Istria, even today, Austria's creature, blessed Austria, speaks. But surely it's not my wish. I'm the last person in this assembly who'd want something like that. I want us simply to respond to the welfare of our children in all these challenges. [[We're done, we're done.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46738	Now I can conclude that you do not understand Croatian when you are spoken. Thank you very much. I would like a representative of the motionary, respected Finance Minister Slavko Linic, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46739	Thank you, Mr. President. As I tried to explain what all the government measures were to enable the private sector to work normally and the rest failed to complete I would say the final report, so a few words about the lack of budget in general by the state and the state budget itself. Thanks to the lower level of expenditure and higher revenues, we achieved a deficit of 10 billion kuna on the state budget, which is 3% of the deficit. If we remember what I said about the environment, then we can conclude that I am the result, and it's not so bad. It may well be noted that interest is slightly less than nine billion kuna. Then we could almost say that we don't have a primary deficit because that means that the revenues of the state budget that were regular covered the expenditures of the state budget. But it is evident that the cost of funding is not covered. And then there's very clear, all these years since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, we're not paying back our debts, but it's now evident that we're not paying even interest this year, but the budget this year shows that the full amount of interest will not be paid, but we'll also include it in the deficit and essentially be in charge of paying interest. Therefore, the cost of our funding is high, debts are very high and are essentially debts that we do not serve. The rapid growth of interest shows that we do not already have some significant space for new investment for new debts. When we look at the general state, which means we involve extra-accounting users, which is our funds, the units of local self-government, then we conclude that it's less than 11 billion and 225 million. It is simply a deficit which, with 3.4% already clearly in Europe, pushes us towards the measures that we will have to take under the excessive deficit programme, which the programmes are mostly turning or strengthening taxes or reducing expenditure. Therefore, the information we must take care of is very important. And now I return to the fiscal rule that first applies to the Republic of Croatia for 2012. The methodology only shows that items and figures are not taken from the budget but are adjusted for the ESA 95 methodology, which means that all guarantees are considered expenditures, as well as if after 3 years the guarantees paid are not returned then the total amount is included in the expenditure. That also net assets and non-financial assets transactions are also placed inside, payment of pensioners' debt is also included in and what is most important all have achieved, and outstanding liabilities are also included in the scope of this ESA 95 methodology. And after that, some of the incomes that we have indicated are more or less excluded. When we look at this new methodology, then we come up with data that compared to 2011 when essentially the base was established in 2012 the share of the expenditure was reduced by 2.6 percentage points. When we put this into our legal solution on the fiscal rule, then we get the solution that there was a reduction in expenditure in the budget of 2.1% last year. Which means if we observe a rule that says that we owe 1 percentage point of GDP to cut our expenditures, that we have met that legal solution on the fiscal rule. What I can point out is that the said fiscal rule is a huge limitation for the Republic of Croatia. And that is why we decided to amend the fiscal rule in agreement with the IMF. That fiscal rule speaks of how much we need to cut expenditure. Since you see in last year we had a 2.1% expenditure cut in this year we are unable to achieve it. We are unable to achieve it because we have a very high interest growth. When we're looking at '14, '15, '16. only if we add up the commitments for Europe that we have to make as new EU members and when we see the rapid growth of interest, we also achieve 1% of GDP saving the spending side is a simple rule that we cannot meet. We think it's too static and we have to change it. That it is not just a matter of reducing expenditure, but that it is very important to see what we can achieve on the income side and on the other hand to try dynamically when such a crisis is to move certain solutions. And of course we try to say what with structural problems in our budget, and we know that the biggest problem with structural problems is pension insurance, pension funds. And that is why the government is preparing and I believe that, among the first solutions, we will discuss this point at the beginning of your fall session. But mostly at this point, we can determine what solutions were required under the law. Therefore, quite strong, I would say the government's work on spending cuts has nevertheless resulted in such solutions. But we also need to know that, with this methodology, part of the shipbuilding expenditure has not been fully entered in 2012, but has already been properly deployed to earlier years, so this is probably the result of such numbers. I see the debate is about roads, so just a few road information. The biggest problem of the Croatian state is public debt, a public debt which will also have a significant impact on the rating of Croatia, which are again important for the assessment of the state but also for the economy because they can have direct influences because we have already lost our investment rating. The debt shown in 2011 was about 48% of GDP. The debt we made last year came to 56%, and you see the deficit is down to 10 billion and there were no investment investments. The debt we already recorded is close to 59% and not complete health care included. Our law and constitution say we can't cross 60%. As far as I know, debts are usually resolved by either a positive statement of the budget, so we must not have a deficit but a surplus and there are solutions, raise taxes or cut expenditures. It's the only way we can achieve a surplus. Without that surplus, there's no paying back. And when we talk about debts then you need to know it's not just highways, at this point we're negotiating what amount of Croatian railway debt is to be taken into public debt. Well, then we're picking up the railroads, so we're picking up Croatia's airports.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46740	Minister of Time. I'd like you to bring her in. Thank you. We have reported four replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46741	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Now, in this recent time, this parole is known for its privatisation or bankruptcy, or I'm going to end up renting all the highways, if that doesn't work, I'm leaving the government. I think that, however, the Croatian Parliament should say the last word, and this fear with the EU commission, so that went both Hungary and Malta, etc. and it is that deficit of 3% of gross national income where almost no country has been prevented from withdrawing money from European funds. If we look at the membership rate and what we can withdraw from European funds, then it's not that big a difference and the question is just maybe we should even say that we will definitely have to pay membership fees, and we will not even withdraw funds because we are not prepared through projects to withdraw those funds. And if you analyze the budget a little bit, the fact is that the deficit is reduced. It's clear to me that all the duties of the past have remained and everything comes on the charge, etc., but the fact that the deficit of the planned increase in one small percentage is not so important, but we had a new debt of 21 billion kuna where we warned about it. But what is particularly concerned is that the entire tax policy has struck local self-government. You're doing a good job for me, so you're filling the state budget with all your resources but you're also suffocating the development of local self-government. you will remove all possible funding and all giving to the local self-government that went out of the budget. And one of the best examples is that of yesterday's law, where for all state institutions, I end up, that will be a problem for you in Ivanac, where for all state estates, municipal compensation is lifted. Where's that?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46742	Thank you. We got it. Minister, do you want an answer? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46743	I was the finance minister of ECOFIN when Hungary was imported into sanctions, for six months it lasted could not reach European funds. When they changed their calculations, they came in and they could use it. Don't think EU membership is something easy. It's not. They're far more responsible and very strict. Three, and that three represents the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF have no understanding. They're looking for order and very clear figures. So whoever thinks we will be able to play as well as the IMF will not, we are now EU members and since our wish is 12 billion euros to withdraw and a good part of the projects in which we would like to bring Croatia's infrastructure and standards in line with Europe if we want to use them, we will have to run a responsible financial policy. This must be clear to everyone and whoever sends a different message has not realized that the EU is essentially a government that seeks severe discipline, fierce. And I don't want to scare anyone. I never want to scare anyone, but I also don't want to shine unreal plans. We should therefore be responsible members and simply show that we are able to run our finances, and they are not easy, they are not easy because so far we have built everything on debt and using the property we have not earned. We didn't. Whether it's the level of concession, whether it's the success of our companies, whether it's the success of our institutions. We've made too little money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46744	Thank you. The next replica of Martina Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46745	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, what you just said in your reply to the replica is contrary to what you said today in some of the previous exhibitions. You've just realized that we need to reduce deficits, debts and you don't want to answer my question about how you're going to prevent the breakup that exists in this year's budget. What I see, which anyone who has any ability to read the budget sees, sees that same European Commission. You're saying it's not a topic. But it's quite a life theme of our everyday life. Because when you talked about the fiscal rule you said the fiscal rule was hard. Well, the point of this fiscal rule and the Fiscal Responsibility Act was to give the finance minister the strength to boost the reforms needed to reduce expenditure. Well, without it, the Minister won't be able to do it. And you say now, we'll change the rule. Because in the report of the fiscal committee for those who may not be familiar with this, we also have a fiscal board that oversees the application of the rules. In a report by the fiscal committee, the 2012 experience indicates the need to change the rule. In the event that the rule does not change the application problems observed in 2012 it would remain in 2013 and it is very certain that the application of the same criteria would lead to a failure to comply with the rules. Well, the point is that expenditures are shrinking, not that the rule is adjusted every year as it suits us. In 2012, you found a methodological way to meet the rule, in 2013, you no longer fit that methodology, so you say I'm going to change the rule. And you stand for order, you tell us about the European Union and all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46746	Thank you. We have Minister Linic's answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46747	Let's say a few words about the fiscal rule. It's a solution given by the former government. And there were trade unions and they gave their hand for that solution. It needs order. I'll just explain it. That fiscal rule says, independently, we can have twice as much income, twice as much. You have a reduction of 1% of the expenditure side compared to the gross social product. 1%. No one in Europe has ever made such a rule. What does that mean? Shall we translate that? That means... % cut wages and cut pensions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That tells you, cut pensions, cut wages. The peace offerings on average in the year 2000, yes, the Government of Zoran Milanovic doesn't think we can do it. Let's not be honest, we're looking for discipline. But in a five-year crisis, set a rule where... The decline in gross social product to reduce pensions and already 2,000 kuna means 80% of the social cases in the pension system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, cutting our salaries means that right now all our personnel are going wherever they can because we can't keep them any longer. What's the point of all this? What's the point of all this? You set this rule without seeing that Croatia was 5 years old and that the rule could have been different. And that we're changing the rule and we're going to suggest it. Let's not just look at the expense side but look at the income side as well. And let's watch if it's five years of recession that all of this can be moved. It's a solution we didn't write ourselves. Along with the European Commission, along with the IMF. And it'll be even harder than this but it'll give us a break,... But he'll give us a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because the basic problem is structural problems. Give me a pension solution you didn't give as a minister. Then we can talk. So what you want the government to do is do crazy jobs. We're changing the rules that you've made because they're bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46748	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46749	Thank you very much. None of you ministers ask for crazy moves, but I'd like you to remember your discussions about the budget and the railways. That's when you told me 2 billion and 900 for railways wasn't enough. And what did you do? You've cut to a billion and 400, you've given bail, and you've put the railroads in charge. And you can't get away from public debt. And that's the point of the problem. But, Mr. Minister, you said one thing today that made fun of you in this High House in 2008 and that's the primary surplus. Yes, in 2008, Croatia had a primary surplus of 2 billion kuna, with a deficit of 0.8. There was an economic crisis in 2009. Why would I bring that up? Because the structural problems of the expenditure side of the budget that were in 2009, unfortunately today, they're beating you against your head, and we haven't been able to solve them, and neither have you. Because we're running away from essential problems and these are structural reforms. And you know it very well and you are not able to carry them out just as we were unable to spend them either, but do not say that some sensational success has been achieved, the problem of Croatia is the expenditure side. And you know it very well. However, with the tax press that took place last year, Croatia and the income side have now become a problem. And we can talk about order and mess. Look when in 2004, the increase in revenue from 10, 11% was not the order, then it wasn't the introduction of order, it happened by accident. And now it's the introduction of order if the revenues are practically at the same level as last year. We speak the same language, we say the primary surplus in 2008 was 2.5 billion kuna. In 2009, there was a growth of deficits, unfortunately the structure of that deficit, because the structure of these expenditures of the day also beats you on the head because it simply can't change without radical cuts and you know it very well. The problem of health care is nothing new compared to what happened in previous years. So I think that we at the Ministry of Finance understand each other very well, just always saying the same thing. He says remember what you said about the railroads.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46750	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46751	There's, there's a difference, there's a difference. In 2012, the restructuring of the railway is a huge reform move, huge. We didn't increase our expenditures, we're doing the line now, and we want to say these are old debts, it's going to be a public debt, so it's growing public debt, it needs to be paid. But the Gredell went into bankruptcy, too, and you weren't happy. Remember what you're doing. The beam today is trying to get out of bankruptcy, part of it going into privatisation. Also, next week is the announcement of the privatisation of cargo traffic. We won't have it anymore, there's too many debts, we're transferring it to the new owner. I'm sorry, it's reform, it's reform. We also try to travel not only to give money for wages but to build compositions that will reduce the deficits in passenger transport. So if we're going to move on, are we going to talk about Croatia airlines, what it's all about is that it's either simple or it's going to make money or it's going to close. Close it, yeah. It's all the reforms we've got. Reform is both highways, highways, or they have to make money or they can't survive. We have to define what to do with the debts. It's a proposal for a concession. It's all reform. It's not reform for you. Health care, we've paid 5 billion, or 3.3 for now. But I'm sorry, there's reforms, they're going. Sanitation councils have been set up and reforms will go, and you will be against the separation of non-white personnel and attempts to privatise that part, cutting down individual departments, joining hospitals. It's all in six months, everything's set up, teams are working and it's very serious, it's huge procedures in that part. Also, a social that goes to a completely different censorship, we have prepared all of this slowly, and all of these are reforms that are structurally changing the expenditure side. ... I'm sorry, there's something to be prepared for. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, the railroad's in 2012. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46752	Time. Thank you. And the last replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46753	Dear Minister Linic, with you it is a pleasure to always pollemize here in the Parliament because you are direct, concrete, do not like you very much, especially the godmothers on the beach but you are not here to like anyone, you have actually pointed out that before. You don't scare the people, but you need to know, and you probably know it, but you need to repeat it in this High House. The doctrine of economic shock is precisely that things are shown to be indecisive, per citizen, catastrophic. All the countries that went through the same tantalum that is going through now and Croatia have been through the same thing, convincing them that everything should be sold, concessioned, hired, given and left without anything. After that, look from South America, Europe, those countries in transition when they once did it back no more. Great unemployment, no structural problems solved. We have other solutions, as much as it seems indecisive at this point. You said public debt is the biggest problem and that public debt also results in negative rating agencies. Whose rating agencies, in what they're doing, are huge capital. Well, this is all you're doing, they've forced us to do what you're doing, to sell out and make big capital come to those funds. We're going to monetize the highways and what we're going to do... we're going to give the highway concession for 50 years. And then what we're gonna do, we're gonna lose our jobs, we're gonna run out of money, we're gonna spend that money. When we do more if we don't, we create conditions for production. It's the only solution, this is nothing else. Reprogramme debts that can be, there's not a return on debts. Remember the Brazil case when he announced a default. We are not a big country like Brazil, but we certainly have our own way, not everything Brussels says and what the United States says, etc. Because it's not the time of the road.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46754	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46755	Okay, I'll just say one thing, you know, listening to the debates in the last 20 days got the impression that when we monetize or concession the roads that someone would put them in a suitcase and take them away from Croatia. That's how you conduct the debate. What you mean by a concessionaire if you define the price that must be in the next 40 years if the concession is 40, then the contract will define. Therefore, the quality of the contract may be the subject of discussion. But to say in advance that we sell pride, which means, the roads leave Croatia? No, they stay here. The question remains who will manage them. Yes, the truth is, we haven't cleared up any of the highways. Part of the people must go home, per km too busy compared to European roads where toll is charged. What do we want to be, social security? No, that's out of the question. So you understand one thing, the contract can always be discussed, and you can certainly make quality remarks if you make a bad deal. But whether it's a concessionist or a state, the roads stay here, stay with the citizens at their service. Just for a little while, in 2014, the obligation of highways that we do not cover with income, which we do not cover with revenue, is 6.3 billion kuna. 6.3 billion are liabilities we can't cover, and otherwise, let's be honest, incomes are both ok 4 billion. Most of the revenue goes to the operation of the highway and about 1 billion investments in construction. 6.3 billion are our commitments to the state budget or to find a solution. The last loans concluded for highways in 2009 are the price of capital on highways 9 and 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46756	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. And on behalf of the SDP club Vice President Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Ministers with Associates, Chief State Auditor with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the country's state budget is the result of a policy in economic and fiscal terms, and the implementation of the budget is then monitored as economic, fiscal and financial policy has been realised in one year. When we made the 2012 budget, we had the first two months and temporary funding. So, practically 10 months could have affected the budget for last year. The main objectives were economic and fiscal policies, the minister said extensively in the opening statement. I'll just say two important goals to repeat that it's fiscal consolidation and financial consolidation actually better say consolidation, bringing the deficits into the framework as said through the Fiscal Responsibility Act. And the second segment is the consolidation of the economy, the conditions for its dynamics, the conditions for investing primarily on job maintenance and the possible creation of new jobs. What measures were then taken to make through the laws through the very budgetary policy? There has been a redistribution of the tax burden, therefore with work, and part of the results of the capital on consumption. It is important to say that entrepreneurs are freed from a part of the contribution that we actually have fiscal or tax, a pair of tax burdens. That four parafiscal or state contributions were reduced, but that stimulated investment in a way that frees the income tax part, a segment as invested in one year. On several occasions, it was possible for the taxpayer to regulate his tax debt through the reprogramme, and at the end of the year the possibility of a pre-fashion settlement was introduced in the sense that long-term bankruptcy processes would be reduced to the maximum possible time. The economic objective was that economic growth was based more on investment and that this unfavourable structure that we had when we had a high growth of social gross product which is largely based on consumption both on personal and national and to a lesser extent on investment changes. In this regard, some moves that are not directly related to the state budget have been made, but are linked through the Croatian Investment Bank, so the Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The budget cuts from recent years have increased some 200 million to 600 million kuna, but also through the HBOR which we talked about when we discussed the HBOR Annual Report for the past year were somewhat broader. So, after a few years, we have again more investment in investments or investments in HBOR than we have in crafts. And significantly reduced interest in the last three years, and even in this year about one index point fell interest in HBOR for investment, they gave priorities in what should be invested. So it's industry, tourism, agriculture, environmental protection and the like. Unfortunately, in the first year, the results of the economic policy and the measures taken did not produce the desired result. We still have a reduction in social gross product by 2%. Therefore, we have not seen a more significant change in the structure to make investments at that level in order to reduce or perhaps fully cancel the decline in social gross product, and it results primarily because we have a significant drop in consumption of industrial production. It's precisely because we're falling in consumption, and because we're in the consumer sense and we're significant importers, we have a drop in imports by 0.4%. But at the same time, we've increased trade exports by 1.4%, and that's something we think happened well in 2012. Just a few sentences about just getting the budget through the statistics. The revenue has been generated somewhere around 109.8 billion kuna. They're at the level planned, but they're higher than the year before by 2.3%. The impact is precisely this redistribution of tax duties that took effect in 2012, but also as the minister himself said more efficient fiscal disciplines and more effective collection of tax revenue. So tax revenues were achieved by 64.3 billion and increased by 5.3%. Surely that impact, the biggest impact has a VAT rate that has grown by 2 index points, but at the same time we had a reduction in VAT to 10% for certain services. Contributions at 37.8% are lower by 2%, which is also the impact of the reduction in health insurance contributions, while special taxes and excise duties have been stagnated, or achieved at year-on-year in advance of € 11.2 billion. When we look at the expenditures they are also achieved at the level planned at the level of €119.8 billion. They have been reduced when consolidated or at a net amount of 1.6 billion kuna, but it should be said that when we look at categories of expenditure, they are mostly reduced to almost all items, except for fees for citizens and households. And if we exclude the increase in interest that was to be paid through the 2012 budget, then it's precisely on these expenditures where savings have been made to reduce somewhere around 2.8 billion kuna. What has not been reduced and what is simply not possible to further reduce in view of the level of such income received by our citizens or households? Orders at 35 billion kuna level. It should be said that in 2012 they are re-coordinated, so the restriction of non-compliance has been abolished during the year. Then healthcare benefits, these are sick and similar fees of 19.7 billion, maternity benefits, child benefits, unemployment benefits of 5.3 billion and expenditures for socially sensitive groups of citizens 2 billion. So it's somewhere 64.4 billion kuna and it's at the level of expenditure that we had in 2011. What is most often and most debated when we are discussing budget implementation is a deficit that has been achieved in 2012 at the total level of the general state of 11.2 billion or 3.4%. Looking at the state budget, it's 3% or slightly above 10 billion kuna, while the difference of 0.4% refers to the deficits of extra budget users or some small surplus in local and regional self-government. So, in this way to reduce the deficit that has fallen significantly compared to the year before and in real and absolute terms and at the same time you have a GDP decline we can, personally and we in the club can conclude that this was actually done with great effort and special discipline in terms of the expenditure side of the state budget. This can then be monitored through a fiscal rule where the Fiscal Responsibility Act defines rules to limit state spending, strengthen responsibilities for the lawfully intended and meaningful use of budget money, and to strengthen control and supervision in order to ensure fiscal accountability. We follow two rules, a temporary rule or so on. The first rule to be applied in the case of the primary budget deficit, therefore, concerns our budget. It calls for a reduction in the expenditure of the budget shown by the share in GDP by at least 1 percentage point as long as there is such a primary deficit. It has already been said in the implementation of the budget that the expenditures of 139.5 billion are 42.2% of GDP, which, compared to 2011 when they were 44.3%, means a decrease of 2.1 points, and thus the use of such a criterion satisfied the fiscal rule. The second fiscal rule or a permanent rule refers to the maintenance of a zero or positive primary balance and represents the difference between income and expenditure when interest is excluded. And if that's how we control how this permanent fiscal rule happened, then we can say that in 2012, we had a deficit of 1.2 billion, a year earlier than 8 billion kuna. And very briefly, how much time I have left to say about the audit. It is important to monitor the execution of the tasks and recommendations from previous audits and current findings. I'm going to make a few of those recommendations and findings that have been made. Therefore, the consolidated report includes the total expenditure of health institutions, and not only transfers towards them, the decision on emergency assistance for the mitigation of the consequences of elementary disasters is in line with the provisions of the law, irregularities in the provision of guarantees in terms of the definition of new guarantees, the law on the implementation of the state budget includes guarantees of the day to the HBOR and is a harmonised analyst with the main book. This time the government decided to acquire a stake in companies. In part, a data order has been executed with the implementation of the state budget relating to outstanding liabilities, government debt, potential debt, claims and government property. A significant number of orders and recommendations are not yet fully or have not been removed at all, or have not been followed up. Therefore, there is no link to the information system to record and manage public debt with the State Treasury. Further claims for taxes and contributions from other budget users do not appear in their financial reports, etc., I will not have time. But it is important to realize that all irregularities in the planning of the records have been removed. It is ongoing that qualitatively increase the efficiency of the use of budget money. The main public auditor has already said which reasons are that the opinion is conditional, therefore based on recommendations and allegations which are not executive, and then it is precisely these supplementary data regarding the implementation of the state budget that are not yet fully applicable, that no potential obligations of the next period are recorded, for all State guarantees no commission has been charged, etc. Finally, the report itself can say that there is significant progress but also a more demanding assessment of the State Audit Office, which is logical because Croatia today is an EU member because budget requirements and budgetary discipline are very strict and should be implemented. The SDP Club will also adopt the 2012 State Budget Implementation Report with a report on the fiscal rule and the finding of the State Audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46758	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46759	Dear Vice President, you may well have defined the definition of the budget, that this is the result of political and economic activity, and that is where I could agree. But most of the political activity. And now let's take a look at the results of that political activity back in the last year and a half. Aware of what was inherited, aware of the state's state of affairs, how much the debts were and that once we turned that billion dollars into euro, is that far less likely. However, this political activity has resulted in an increase in the number of unemployed, a decline in economic activity, a decline in industrial production, an increase in imports, a reduction in exports, a decline in citizens' standards. When we talk about consumption, I don't mean general consumption, I mean citizens. Normally that it fell, the VAT increased by 2% in this way, and given what Germany was doing when it wanted to start the economy it was just doing the opposite to reduce VAT and thus stimulated both consumption and production. So one product with VAT is 2% more expensive than the one with 21%, etc., etc. So the results of this political activity are catastrophic on this economic plan. But also in politics because the whole tax policy has led to the fact that local and regional self-government simply has no way of surviving anymore. Every law passed in this House is a blow to local and regional self-government. Even from yesterday's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46760	Thank you. We have a response from Vice President Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46761	Col. Vinkovic's government is not run by the economy, possibly affecting politics in those segments where the state is the owner, so state-owned enterprises and where the majority or minority owner can have more or less success in affecting the economy's policies. But the government creates frameworks and creates opportunities for this economy to advance, grow, invest, etc. The measures adopted had or provided for the possibility that the economy could invest. But our economy is in such a situation of liquidity for the most part and insolvency that it simply cannot be recovered in the short term and therefore you have to implement all of this towards private companies doing in Croatia that no other government in such a way has to work because the private economy is strong and can only deal with problems in the crisis. Compare Germany and Croatia's German economy and the Croatian economy at all can't be a colleague. The issue of consumption in Germany is the issue of its domestic production and of course it will stimulate them, and in a tax sense it will stimulate their domestic production. And our consumption look at our shopping malls, our consumption of citizens is largely alimentated from imports. And it wouldn't be right for us to stimulate imported goods with lower VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46762	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46763	Dear Madam Vice President of this House. So speaking of the expenditure side of the budget, you said that this reduced what was left at 2011 level, and that points to a key problem. And we can say whatever we want here, but when you look at three of the biggest expenditures of the state budget, it's salaries, it's pensions, it's health care, it's something that's going to grow year by year, because if you don't do nothing on salaries just those 0.5% on past work next year, then your weight doesn't change anything by 0.5%. You have that pension growth formula, and that's due to the deficits, you have a rise in interest costs every year. And now that you add one part of the amount of health care that we're talking about on this spending line, I'm not going to say at all if it's a billion, two, two, and a half, five hundred million is irrelevant but it's important that on the spending side that amount is not shown and does not exist. And when that amount is on the expense side of the book and will have to be entered... Then the picture would be worse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in the whole story when you have a deficit of 10 or 11 billion kuna, then a billion kuna is stupid to say it's not a problem but essentially looking at it is not a problem. But the problem is that structural reforms have not been implemented and that is what is currently giving the Minister finance a problem with the 2013 budget in 6 months. It's these three expenditures I was talking about. Because if you have 36 billion pensions, if you have health-free salaries 21 billion and that 8 and something else is in your health care costs that go to hospitals. If you have the health costs of 21 billion although no structural reform has been implemented to reduce expenditure, then that's the problem that latently knocks you in the head. And that's what we need to talk about in this House and not brag about some high achievement that unfortunately, if we don't solve this problem, will never be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46764	Answer. Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46765	Well, I don't know where you've heard of the Minister or in my statement that we're boasting of some great accomplishments. We're talking about the problems we've encountered, the problems we have today, and the problems we're dealing with. Equally in, we are affected by these in position and opposition because it is actually the problem of our country and our citizens in the ultimate line. But when you go to watch that from year to year we will have growing expenditures based on duties, so interest, you have to do something. And at the same time, you have such a weak economy, and then you have citizens who are alluding to their incomes from that economy that it is simply an unsustainable state. But my dear colleague, you were Minister, you were Minister of Finance, since 2008 when the signs of the crisis were until 2010, nothing happened. I spoke to my colleague Kosor a little while ago, before this session, so we renewed the government program in 2010. What, while tax revenues increased in a way that increased taxes, at the same time seemed to be in the government programme the same thing as we are talking about now. I wish that'd been realized then. Sales of minority stakes in enterprises, concessions, reduction of budgetary expenditure, etc. I wish that was done in 2010, 2011. 2012 would already be the results.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46766	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Martin Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46767	Allow only one brief answer to Mrs. Zgrebec. Why didn't the sale of minority stakes be realized? Because the government's set up an AUDI, which took one year. And you're on your way to relocate the AUDI yesterday, and now at the Office of State Property Management, it's going to take you another year and you won't do what you want. But to get back on the subject. Our theme is the 2012 Budget Implementation Report. And you ministers reminded me that perhaps the talk on this report should remind me of what someone was saying when we were making the budget. So you said I was scaring the people. And that you remember very well what I was saying back then. I have to correct you at all, I didn't talk about the budget at the time, but Mrs. Kosor, the president at the time, spoke about the budget. I helped her prepare that talk, and I would therefore not give up a single sentence that she said at that time. And Mrs Kosor then said that the HDZ with this defined objective of the budget, which is to reduce deficits, agreed and cited the reasons why they are domestic, foreign, economic and financial markets. So we weren't scaring the people. At the same time, however, HDZ said that an increase in VAT by 2% will certainly not boost the population to higher consumption. And the consumption dropped by 3% and you said it yourself. So we did not scare the people, but what happened to you in some way collegiately, we warned precisely because I personally and I think the largest number of colleagues in the HDZ Club want the results you achieved in 2012. But all we see around us is that these results are unfortunately temporary. For example, I did talk about the 2013 budget when I warned you that Croatia would lose its ratings and that happened. So, it's not about fearing the people, but also about this 2012 showdown on the implementation of the 2012 budget I will continue to try to point out to you both the elements about the execution and the elements that result from this execution that would really need to be improved and improved because of what Mrs. Zgrebec said that this is a problem for all of us because this is a problem for our country. And the problem of public finances is the big problem of our country that determines her next year and the life of all of us. On the first page of this Implementation Report, it says that revenue has been increased by 2.4 billion kuna, expenditures by 1.6 and the deficit has been reduced by 4. However, I would like to remind you that both the government's initial plan and the original budget were that revenue would increase 1.5 billion, that expenditures would decrease 2.6 billion and that the result would be the same, or deficit minus 4. What the Government initially announced, what it wanted at the beginning, and what was achieved at the end of 2012 was the goal achieved but in a completely different way and a completely different strategy than what was wanted at the beginning. The strategy is during the year, the government has moved from a strategy where the deficit reduction should be based on dominant expenditures to a strategy where this deficit reduction has been realised through revenue. That's what you see in budgeting. That's what the budget figures prove and we all know it. Unfortunately, this reduction in expenditure of 1.6 billion kuna is actually somewhat thinr because this drop in expenditure of a billion 600 there is and there is also a reduction in the subsidy for HH of 517 million that has already been mentioned here. But there was no real reduction in HZ subsidies because in December 2012, as it also states in this report, you gave two guarantees to HH for financial consolidation and the care of extra employees. You gave them a guarantee in nature to pay their bills and debts to suppliers and salaries, what was simply written in the budget until then. And that is essentially the taste and the essence of this debate today, and I don't know which way, because unfortunately the reduction of the budget deficit, the reduction of debts, the reduction of imbalances, the reduction of everything you talk about and what you stand for in 2013 will not be possible because expenditures are rising, expenditures are growing, expenditures are not under control, and the measures of fiscal policy that you have reduced the budget in 2012 will result and result in the shift of economic activity that we see and finally, are difficult to reflect precisely on budget implementation in this year. Because, in a certain way, the account for misdetermined priorities in the economic policy and fiscal policy as it was, it comes at a charge in some way and before you knew it. Incomes in the first 5 months are lower by a billion 600, expenditures are higher by 2.5 billion. With an increased VAT rate, an increased VAT rate on food products from 0 to 5, with all the loud noise and noise produced in tax collection, fiscalisation, overall order and discipline minus a billion and 600, the plan for this year envisions a 3.5 billion growth. This means that in the second part of the year, revenue growth would have to be 5 billion to reach this plan. That's impossible. The budget is threatened by a serious subsidisation of income, a serious subsidisation of revenue that threatens the stability of the budget, and in the coming months there are not many arguments for optimism. Part of VAT revenue will be lost because we have entered the European Union and part of VAT is no longer charged on imports. He'll move next year. The reduction of VAT rates in catering and tourism means an effective return to these industries. During the tourist season, instead of income, the budget will be spent. On the other hand, expenditures increased by 2.6 billion within 5 months, which is exactly half planned. Expenses are made faster than the plan because the important budget items on which the savings are planned are not realised. The planned savings on salaries of €2.5 billion, realised in 5 months 311. He'll miss his money and his pensions. All this shows that this year's budget is being threatened by difficult problems that require urgent access. I would like the results you have achieved, which is the reduction in deficits to be maintained, kept on stable bases and stable legs, and that means that today in the 7th month, we would have to know and hear the answers how and how to stop the spread of dubios in this year's budget, how these shortcomings of this one will be financed to express the gaps that are being opened, which are evident. How and how economic activity will be revived, how it will eventually respond to the procedure to prevent the excessive deficit that will soon be launched. This can't be solved by technical rebalancing. You mention technical rebalancing. It can't be solved by technical rebalancing, and it can't be quite solved by this so-called. By introducing order to the markets you're losing a lot of energy, I'd say. It can't even be solved by privatization because you've already planned it, and this is what I'm talking about coming on top of an existing plan. We therefore believe in the HDZ Club that you should present a clear, serious and comprehensive economic recovery plan that includes numerous and not exactly favourable fiscal measures and measures to open structural reforms that will finally stabilise expenditures and prevent them from continuously growing and continuously affecting the spread of deficits. You ministers spoke about the bankruptcy of the state a few days ago. Well, the task is for you and the entire government to prevent the bankruptcy of the state and take all the necessary measures to keep it from happening. You are saying that monetization of highways is the only way to prevent bankruptcy, but I think it is a little bit about replacing the thesis because the credit position of the Republic of Croatia, its position in the international capital market, the ability to refinance commitments depends on the current state of the budget, the measures taken by the government and the trends that can be read from it, and these trends are unfortunately worrying and there is a problem. The monetization of highways therefore has nothing to do with preventing the bankruptcy of the state. I personally think that the situation in us is such that every option, every available option as to how to get out of this square circle should be put on the table and that none should be discussed and one alternative should not be denied in advance. However, as long as the current trends in reality, in nature, in budget implementation, suggest that the deficit will grow, I did not purposely want to present numbers and estimates as much as this year could be, but as long as existing trends show that the deficit will grow, that it will affect the acceleration of the long debate on the monetization of highways is not fruitful because it will not solve the problem. This debate only makes sense if it fits into the wider and effective context of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia that we know exactly what this is all about. Otherwise we don't see the point, they won't solve anything and we're against it. Ministers therefore, at the end of the Croatian Democratic Community club, well-intentioned and collegiately warns you and draws attention to what I am convinced and you know for yourself, that the state of budget implementation for this year is not good and that urgent action is needed. What was past, however, what we live today is our reality that you must govern. As regards the report on the fiscal rule, the report on the fiscal rule presented here is considered unacceptable and for the simple reason that this report does not contain simple elemental information, which would show that and how it came from budgetary expenditures, which was eventually adopted by this Parliament and as expenditure on execution and accepted as expenditure on execution to expenditure. Well, I don't think that's a problem at all. But I can't understand and I can't understand why the Ministry of Finance didn't want to present that table so that we can discuss it, discuss it, and finally see this methodology that the fiscal board says needs to be changed in a hasty manner because in 2013 it won't allow the fulfilment of the fiscal rule. You said the government was going to change the rule because you just didn't want to do what the HDZ government did. But I warn you again that every other rule is more rigid than the rules in our Fiscal Responsibility Act because the second rule is, of course, rules that apply to the EU, and it goes towards a structural deficit than plus, minus 0.5% of GDP. Well, that's more rigid than the existing rule a few times. So I don't think that you took advantage of the opportunity, you didn't take advantage of the advantage given by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, you didn't recognize that opportunity, in essence, and in fact the instrument given to the Ministry of Finance and those who care about the whole of economic policy to stimulate what can stabilise expenditure, what can make the functioning of the state administration more efficient, what can make the functioning of public administration more efficient, what can stabilise healthcare, which is structural reforms in these areas. Therefore, as he has already said, the fiscal board whose report is much more comprehensive and much more quality than what the Ministry of Finance presented here to us and can be found on the Ministry of Finance's website in the budget section and then the fiscal board. As this report puts it, the fiscal rule in 2012 was largely fulfilled as a consequence of the methodological rules and only a small part as a consequence of the activities of economic and fiscal policy holders. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] However, I fear that things are developing in 2013 that our failure to comply with the fiscal rule will be the least of our problems. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46768	Thank you very much. We have reported four replicas. Ivo Jelusic picked up first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46769	Dear fellow Dalic, you have introduced a new type of comparison here. It is common always so far when it comes to the budget to be compared to the previous year, not only here, but in all countries and in all budgets and not only the state but also others. And you don't want to do it, but compare yourself to the next year, so the one who will arrive is accepting certain events as you expect. Of course, I understand that you didn't want to compare yourself to the previous year, because you would have to admit that this government has reduced the deficit by 4 billion compared to yours, that it's smaller by 4 billion which is true, that it has reduced expenditures by a billion, a billion and 200 less than your government had, that it has increased revenues by 2 and a half billion more than your government had. Of course, you should say all that if you compare yourself to the previous year that you don't want to. Because of course when you compare yourself to the previous one, so when this government compares itself to the previous one, it would have been more successful and had better results in that year. Of course, I don't expect it from you, but I expect at least some other things. For example, you speak here when the problem,... The drop in purchasing power due to an increase in VAT by 2%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is true that VAT has increased by 2%, that the prices of services have increased 2%, but it is also a fact that the amendments to the Income Tax Act to all those who have below average and average salaries are therefore not reduced, i.e. even with these... and increased by 2%, it was canceled, hence the VAT increase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only one whose purchasing power in that sense is smaller, because the pay is lower. That's mine and yours if he's got big wages. But I think we can still work. However, the main drop in purchasing power, the main problem is the fall in our standard and the main problem is that we are in this situation where we are and because your government in previous years, while you were ruling, has had a decline in gross social product of 9%. Since this resulted in the downturn of the economy, which resulted in the closure of the company, a large number of unemployed and this resulted, our main problem is the decline of standards and purchasing power, not this other.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46770	Thank you. We have a colleague Daliæ's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46771	Thank you very much. You know, colleagues Jelusic in the Croatian Parliament discusses in different ways, different people have different approaches and we interpret all of this as democratic pluralism. What I can't figure out, though, is how you guys are avoiding talking about reality today. The very fact, to anyone with any common sense, the fact that they avoid talking about reality today, that they avoid talking about trends and figures published on the Ministry of Finance's website is worrying and shows that these things are not going well. Because let's not play crazy and talk about 2012 which was seven months ago. We said a lot about it, we said today, but today we are in July 2013 and 7 salaries are paid, 7 pensions are paid, and trends are what they are. On the past, counterpart Jelusic, as far as the past is concerned, no one has ever said that the existing government led by the SDP has taken over and accepted a brilliant and fantastic state. If things had been brilliant and fantastic, they probably wouldn't have come to power. However, let me estimate that given the circumstances, you have taken on especially in the segment of public finances as well as the correct state in which it was known where it is, where the problems are and so it is said and transferred to you. The current government is responsible for everything else, especially for the situation in society and the economy for a year and a half after it took over. I guess now you can see the results of some of your activities. The only problem is they're gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46772	I would only beg that we use words adequately space and place. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the history of the sixth Master Vitae. Here's an esteemed colleague as we speak here, we discuss budgets, political, economic activities, and then this is how I get an article where here it may be right now, and it's a little bit about the past and the present, it's about two companies from Rijeka – Ortis commercialce and FINAB and if it reaches and joins Electromechanics here about 250 million kuna tax debt. And that's about the five budgets of the city of Djakova. I don't know how many student bonds it is, how much money it is for sports societies, cultural and artistic societies, sports, culture, infrastructure. It's not possible! 20 years in the same place is the same woman head of the IRS. It mentions some family ties, mentioning the write-off of debt after the publication of that list of shame from 122 million kuna to 42 million kuna, mentions more, mentions the State's Attorney's Office, mentions the Ministry of Finance, the bankruptcy manager, but is irrevocably lost somewhere around 250 million kuna of state budget funds. Four budgets from the city of Djakova. If someone thought I wasn't going to say what I would do from this state budget, but it would be much easier both in Slavonia and Đakov, so they might not have to raise Jelusic VAT 2%. So we raised him, we could've raised him 5%. We could've given something to local self-government. These things and these cases are held responsibly by the IRS, and we do not need to privatise or privatise or bankruptcy, but we do solve matters within the state. And this is one of those cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46774	Thank you. We have a colleague Daliæ's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46775	Well, yes, my answer is next fellow Vinkovic, my answer is that an orderly tax charge, a 100% tax charge can only be achieved by one single instrument, which is a lasting, persistent, persistent and continuous effort to build an institution of people and staff working in the Tax Administration. I don't know, and no one in this room knows what this particular case is, but what I do know is that no single person in any place in the Ministry of Finance could have done much. Or to be more honest, there's nothing he can do. But the institution can. Therefore, it is necessary to build on the same rules, on the criteria of expertise, on the criteria of clear rules, on the criteria of transparent rules that apply everywhere in the country to all taxpayers. And I think the only way to improve and raise tax revenues, which is to believe the goal of every government as much as you find it incredible, is to keep this institution up and up and off from any political influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46776	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Dalić, you have made good reference in your final section to both the Fiscal Responsibility Act and the fiscal rule. Therefore, the Fiscal Responsibility Act should first and foremost give strength to those who have constantly pushed reforms, which is the Ministry of Finance, to encourage all participants in the budget spending process to bring the spending party into line, and the result should be seen through the fiscal rule. However, if I am not mistaken today's strongest ruling party did not want to support the Fiscal Responsibility Act and no wonder why fiscal rule is the problem today. But what you need to say here is and this is shown in the 2012 budget when you read through the lines and also in the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months of 2013 the problem of public finances of the Republic of Croatia is the expenditure side of the state budget. The problem is not to do and not to implement structural reforms. And we can argue here as much as we want to see what is the burden of the state budget because when it was running 3 years ago to sign a request for a referendum to amend the Labour Act, it is now being broken down over its head because these changes to the Labour Act are the problem of one of the largest items in the budget, and that is the wages and material rights of employees in the public services. So much for how we behave when we're in opposition and how we behave when we're in power. and just your debate on behalf of the club on 2013.We wanted to state the responsibility of HDZ to the current state of affairs we simply want to warn and that's all we can do at the end of the year, and you'll see at the end of the year how right we were about all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46778	Thank you. And the last replica of Vice President Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46779	Thank you. You have devoted most of your presentations to the present, the present state and you are talking about the 2013 budget, and among other things, you have said that we are avoiding it. We're not discussing this because it's not the subject of the agenda. And in order to avoid publishing such information, We would not have sent them down. You yourself say the data are published on the portal of the Ministry of Finance they are available to everyone. But we're discussing the implementation of the 2012 state budget, and that's how I discussed it on behalf of my club. When will be the subject of 2013 we will discuss this. And don't think you're the only one who's worried about the situation that's in Croatia today, I think we're all worried about politics, that all our citizens are concerned. But I'd be more pleased if you were worried when you were Minister of Finance. When VAT was also raised when additional income tax and pensions were introduced and it was not used in a way that such revenues in the state budget go through the expenditure side to encourage certain incentives in the economy to invest, etc. At the same time we have a double-digit investment drop, we have up to 6% decline in social gross product. So we, too, were warned and concerned about what the situation is and we are concerned today, and when it comes to the topic of the agenda, we will also discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46780	Thank you. We have a colleague Daliæ's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46781	Mrs. Zgrebec, what you just said actually moved me to answer you in a way that I was going to include in the debate, and then I actually threw out. Namely, in the time and in the years that you mention and when the VAT was raised and so on. I wasn't the finance minister, so I'm going to answer you as analyticalally as I see it. And I see that then one mistake was made and a mistake was made not to raise the VAT by 2% points. I see it as an economic error of the then government. And that's actually how your policy proves it because your policy is based on raising taxes and everything you've been doing for the past year and a half proves that HDZ has made a mistake which has not been stronger and more intensively raising taxes, something that you could see on TV at the time, opposed to the fifth veins, performed a circus in the Parliament, wondered and was precisely those who saw neither the strength nor the depth of the crisis. She may not have been seen or seen by the government but you as an opposition or a minimum. Today we perform from different positions Mrs. Zgrebec and try according to our best knowledge and understanding and experience that we have gained by working among others and some of these jobs to show that in reality trends that are difficult, dangerous and alarming for the stability of public finances cannot be eliminated. Since we have a Minister of Finance here, it would be irresponsible not to ask him, and these already visible problems in the state budget can't be removed, we'll discuss it next year. So we're not here to argue just for the sake of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46782	It's time, colleague Dalic. Thank you. Minister Slavko Linic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46783	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. From the discussion of the HDZ Club, two messages that I understood about the 2012 budget report, the result of higher incomes is tax burden. And that's where we differ significantly, there's your political message that the higher power has achieved revenue with higher taxes. You have to explain to me who you're always trying to tell, business. That's not true. In the past year, the economy received two index points less for healthcare than last year's 1.8 billion kuna they received. 400, 500 million is four parafiscal charges, 2.3 billion. And this year we have a tax refund that they paid last year, so that's the same expenditure last year as 1.1 billion people in charge of the profits they didn't have to pay because they went into reinvestment. Add all together over 3.5 billion direct incentives to the Croatian economy. Direct incentives. What have we burdened them with? Oh yeah, if they're pulling out 12% of the dividend tax. But they had the right to keep the profits if they wanted to and they kept many 1.2 billion. Yeah, we said if you go into restaurants and drive cars, you just have to pay, or you're excluded from VAT deduction. What does that mean? We encouraged the economy to invest, to develop, and we did not allow excessive consumption. Why? Because at the same time, we went with a restrictive policy on the spending side. Explain what we've increased the IRS? I repeat, two index points, an increase in VAT, that, to citizens, citizens who have taken over the burden of incentives in the economy, incentives in the economy. I'm not gonna repeat all those other liquidity resolution stories and everything. So the economy gained from the state budget in the worst year when there is no economic growth slightly less than 4 billion. That's what the economy got. And we keep hearing about the IRS. What kind of tax press is that? If we were able to charge it, first of all, is the result of our insistence on paying taxes. They insisted on paying taxes. And what's the problem? Tax discipline is one thing and tax burden is another. Tax burden's different. Even I'd say there's no tax press, because if the state gives the right to two reprogrammes, where it can be agreed with the state to postpone payment. At the same time, you go to the Law in which the government assumes agreements on consolidation, bankruptcy, debtors. The government is taking it upon itself to speed up proceedings against the judiciary. Where's the tax press? Is that word being used? I call it all political, political speech. Because we didn't have an expert speech. Because if we did, then we'd really say if we had a tax ruling on the economy, because we're interested in the economy. Why are we interested? He's important to jobs, he's important to the battle for economic growth. We've got a discharge, and we've got an opportunity to settle debts to the state, which is absolutely not a tax press. Yeah, that's what we got. And here we disagree, there are important differences. That's why you qualify yours, and you don't want to talk about it any further. You want to talk about 2013. Also very clear messages from the government that we have reduced 1.6 billion expenditures. We're down. If we add 1.2 billion stronger, bigger interest then that's close to 2.8 billion down. 2.8 billion less expenditure than in 2011, less expenditure. And we say, on subsidies, on wages, on material expenses, that we are... Not enough, I agree, not enough, we planned four billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What didn't we accomplish? It's a pay cut. Because we talked too much. I've already said, we've talked too much, we've made arrangements, we've signed agreements. We have a simple thing that we haven't been effective about. Yeah, we're not on the payroll. But then here and very clearly I want to say the position and message of the government. You know the pay cut is one thing, it can be one time, we won't have a pay cut. We need to increase the quality structure of the state administration, these are bigger salaries, which are bigger individual ones that we will be able to achieve by reducing the number of employees who are going to retire who do not have that structure. ... In the salary account, it won't mean a reduction, we can once reduce one billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the goal of this year, to reduce one billion but no more, not in the long run, and that's not what we're going to do next. Because that means we won't have the right. We'll have no right. But also the biggest structural problem of the Republic of Croatia? That I don't mind, let's talk about him. 36 billion are pensions, and 18 billion are not paid out of pension contributions. Not even 18 billion. That's 18 billion kuna deficits, that's a permanent structural problem. A permanent structural problem. And what's the biggest problem? What was the issue of failed private companies, privatised companies that pushed people into retirement with little internships, with 20, 25 years of internships, their pensions are below average. Because we created a new poor world. Yes, perhaps someone will also demand a reduction in the total mass, there is no way, I believe that no government in Croatia, none, regardless of which side comes they will not agree with a reduction in the mass of pensions. Because the average pension of 2000 kuna is not a decent man, not worthy, not too small for its consumption. And that's the problem we're gonna talk about. That's the problem. And we can only solve it with economic growth. And that's why the battle to encourage economy is something that's very important. And in that we differ in 2012. Yeah, we cut down, we failed, we were on the payroll, but we cut everything else down. On the other hand, we have succeeded in making up for this lack of wage cuts to compensate for higher incomes, and here we are satisfied. But that's the difference between political options, that's what we're important about. We don't ask anywhere to be told what we need, we say what we want, but now we also say there's no further reduction, the battle for income, and we change the rules because simply in the crisis when GDP falls we go to say that we're going to cut salaries, employees, that we're going to cut pensions. No, you won't hear that more from us, so we're changing the fiscal rule. And the Ministry of Finance is not a policy, and our rule of fiscally hitting the pensioners, the employees, is not. The health restructuring isn't about reducing health expenditure, it's not. The restructuring of health care to stop stockpiling our losses, to stop stockpiling our losses, and to go into investment and modernization of health instead of irrational consumption. But it won't mean less health care spending, it won't. So thank you very much, we have a fiscal rule instrument where we don't need an uncontrollable cut, and this policy will not be proposed by the Ministry of Finance, and we are very clear messages from the Government of Zoran Milanovic, we will not do it, we are going in a difficult way, a far more complex fiscal rule, but it will also depend on revenues, and it will also give us the opportunity to deal with the recession and the crisis that is in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46784	I thank the ministers. We have four replicas. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46785	Dear Minister Linic, it's good, you said we were different, probably thinking of Mrs Dalic and it's good that we're both world-famous and ideological and that's why there are more parties and more clubs here in the Parliament. It is fully evident from this large document that the deficit has been reduced, that the expenditures have been reduced and that the revenues have been increased and no one can deny it. We're talking about 2012 for sure. We talked about it the last time. However, you said the tax presses were gone..., there was a reduction in the giving of the economy, but there were tax presses on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia which you admitted to being, by increasing the VAT by 2%. And now that's the question, that's what we're different about, and I think in the spring, we discussed it for you and me, whether it's a good policy to tax citizens more, is it actually cutting the branch on which it sits. There are economic schools and economists, as well as probably structurally and secularly and ideologically. It's absolutely certain that if citizens have less money, pure logic, they shouldn't be a big economist, that they buy less. If less purchases are less produced, if less produced and less purchased, fewer countries receive cash in the cash register. On the other hand, that press we made on citizens, I don't say by fear, by your intentional fear, but by your once black prognosis, the citizens have put seven billion kunas on savings in banks. They didn't want to put that money on the market. Hence, it is a fear for 2013 and 2014, which will happen, whether there will be so much income and that is what we need to talk about here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46786	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46787	Thank you. My colleague, let's go back to the citizens. Do you need to say how many citizens have blocked accounts, an enormous number? How they spent Croatian citizens, taking loans, taking Swiss. What they bought, apartments, behind that car, behind that white technique and only then textiles and food. When you run an economic policy, what do you determine then, that we have more apartments than families. What does that mean, does it stimulate the savings of citizens in apartments, does it stimulate? It's dead capital money, it's not rented, no one lives in it, it's empty. The communal system is built towards these apartments, and they are not operational. Shall we talk about cars? See how halved it is, however, far lower the import of cars. Who we stimulated, foreign production, everything from credit again and of course a smaller loan if it's a smaller VAT. If we're going to talk about white technology, we're going to list how much we have a white technology factory, televisions, etc. According to that, there is less consumption of citizens. Unfortunately, life is difficult for citizens because they paid and collected VAT on food because they could not give it up. Therefore, we are aware that it has fallen simply in trade thanks to the lower consumption of citizens and thanks to their not spending on import goods, which is the reason and significant decline in imports, a significant decline. Well, we've got something even more favourable to the balance of payments, not to mention we're a little more quality in the foreign trade. So everything has its effects, everything has its effects, but the biggest problem is that our citizens are over-indebted and that's what it means that citizens will no longer get into debt and that's why we have a fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46788	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46789	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, if the tax press regarding the increase in VAT was reduced to white equipment and cars then it would be easy for Croatian citizens. Some would drive a car for a year, two longer, some would fix a fridge or something, there wouldn't be a problem. However, VAT has increased by 8.7% and unfortunately it has increased to what citizens cannot do daily. And then from 1.7, there was a 20-percent increase in electricity, and then there was a 37% increase in gas and heating. Without that, you can't tell the citizens that I can without it. I just can't. And make sure everyone sees how much fire he's going to get that light bulb in his house and how many radiators he's going to be open if he can regulate to make his consumption less. But when you add it together together, it's somewhere at five and a half billion in the last year, the public's purchasing power has been reduced. Let's not talk about those who have above average, they'll buy regardless. So I'm talking about the majority of Croatian citizens, so they've reduced the purchasing power for that amount and there's a tax press. The income tax is realistic by looking at those who have salaries above five thousand kunas. Is the salary above 5,000 kuna something that's high? You'll agree with me it's not. Unfortunately, on Croatian occasions, everyone is happy who even works and gets paid and what you're saying about health care, you have your theory we have yours. I'll still tell you it's a big mistake. You two-and-a-half, actually last year, a billion and 800, and this year, two-and-a-half billion scattered into 200-and-a-half thousand other health insurance bonds. And whoever you're talking to in entrepreneurship that money they got in principle means nothing to them. Because someone who has 50 workers is too small to encourage any investment cycle. Our intention was good, but it might have been better if those money had stayed in the budget, so that you were directly directing it into certain processes. Unfortunately, this is how it got lost. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46790	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46791	My colleague, I fully agree with you that it was a tax press for the citizens. That's never been challenged by the government, never by me. And the basic government didn't encourage a four-billion-dollar economy out of one of its pockets. No, on the burden of the citizens. And the burden of last year's consolidation of the battle to unload the economy has fallen on the citizens. And those are clear messages. So that's where we agree. But it's a tragedy when talking about the tax press comes from entrepreneurs, when you're talking about the tax press, not you directly, but individuals are talking about the tax press to the economy, and we're not. You say an individual two percent reduction is not much, but it's at a total annual level of 2.4 billion kuna. It's huge money. It's everyone's incentive. And what is our primary goal? Encourage the battle for a competitive economy. That was step one. You know what step two was. The second step was the story of moving part of the health system to assets, especially assets that aren't operational, I apologize, properties that aren't functional. And that would mean further discharge, because we need to get to 7% of the health contribution. We're on 13. So we probably won't make it to the end, but we can cut back. And then it's no longer 2.4 then it's going to be 5%, I apologize for 5 billion, then it might be 7 billion kuna. They're huge incentives. These are structural changes in load. In Europe, real estate is one part funded by public health needs. We stayed on the payroll. So in that part, try to figure out we didn't finish the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46792	Thank you. The next replica of Martina Dalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46793	Thank you very much. You know, ministers, we're actually here in that unfavourable position because it would take me, too, for the next half hour to explain my thoughts on what you've been saying simply because I think we've now come to the point of what this whole story really is, and that's how and how to stimulate economic activity. Everything you said I would sign, and I wouldn't replicate any of your words if in reality there were results around us, and other than these general problems, which are cited by colleagues of unemployment, decline in production, decline in economic activity, etc. This is also now accompanied by the budgetary problem that has arisen from the structure and manner in which you have used and regulated fiscal instruments. You say we encourage the economy and there's no tax press and why entrepreneurs tell me I'm doing a tax press. That is why, among other things, Mr. Minister, because some of them failed to increase the prices of their products and services for an increased VAT rate, which means that the reduction of health contributions meant nothing to them, and it brought you great loss in the budget. So we on this side of the assembly actually don't see a way out of this economic situation in the incentives because you said yourself when you were talking about agriculture, big incentives, bad agriculture. We're talking about solving the real problems that these entrepreneurs point out, which poses obstacles to investment, investment and now I don't have time for more detailed explanations. But just one more word. Mr. Minister, you said that health expenses cannot be reduced, they will not be reduced, they have to grow, and you would like to reduce the contribution. What visions of the future you have for me is really not clear to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46794	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46795	Well, it's very short. The question remains whether an entrepreneur if he cannot achieve his price in the markets has the right to say I won't pay taxes? He can't say that. He must pay the tax and he must organise himself accordingly. He has to and try to understand that we didn't go headless. You know, the Fiscalization Act has made it very clear that you have your business to do, but you have to pay your taxes. And we're putting under control what's spread the area that's been in the gray economy so far. And we're trying to cut it down. And I'm sure in that part we'll have the results by the end of the year. So, I agree with the result is, there's an investment activity going on, bigger employment is going really bad, very bad. In visible clues, say at the end of this previous quarter. But we'll see if they give their results. We'll see if he gives. What we're still assessing as government where we're intensively dealing with the problem is not enough capital in companies, not enough. Because without that capital, you can't even borrow, and without borrowing, we can hardly have investments. So with institutional banking, the government is talking about trying to secure capital funds to capitalize companies. Because it's obvious the FGS didn't give theirs. So this is the final stage of our battle to consolidate the economy... The private economy does something independent of public companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the job isn't done and there's still a lot ahead of us. So I believe by the end of the year there will be little visible results, and then it remains to see what is 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46796	Thank you. And the last line, Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, it is clear that your battles do not bear fruit, and they are all lost. All your intentions to save the budget have fallen into the water. To all those who are users of the state budget, you have increased salaries as directors of HZMO, HZZO, etc. Today and those who are directors of the agency, you increase your salary. You speak demagogue of how they will deliver the results of all these measures you are carrying out, and they are getting uglier, worse and more leading to ruin. Those state-owned companies that had a positive business, such as HEP with 800 million kunas left behind, you allowed them to be disbursed just like that, new duties of the device and to raise their salaries and employ new 100 employees without any criteria or reason. On the one hand, you form and drive into order, and on the other hand, like drunk millionaires, you throw money all over the place. Such a way is certainly not saved by the state budget, in such a way there is no success, threats to all as well as to defenders do not give you shares. Well, you haven't, like, been gone for a year and a half in a basket of the State Assets Management Fund. There are no new ones you predict in privatisation to save hundreds of scholarships as well as hundreds of endangered Croatian defenders with social indifference. It is easy for you to share a team with your hands and hats, and those you do not love for them there is nothing. These standards cannot be in the Croatian state and so Croatia cannot be drawn from the crisis and recession. You've allowed state-owned companies to bathe just because they're coalition partners and intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46798	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46799	You always wonder if a man responds to such replicas. But I think you should answer. You know, who I hate, who I don't hate? I was mayor but I spent more time on the front and with defenders than many. So, why don't you stop telling me about the defenders? I'm the one who was at your door every river family to report your son killed, your husband died, your father died. So don't lecture me on defenses! Don't lecture me! But the division of shares to make individuals rich that the HDZ was doing will not work. The Secretary of Defense can secure in the next year from privatisation revenues as much as he wants, but for defense programs, and we don't want individuals talking about it. This government, just 15 days ago, wrote off 60 million kunas of credit and failures. Sadly, many of them died because of wounds and health problems. She wrote off 60 million. We're doing our job, but your guy's circuses aren't gonna work! Therefore, only you sell the shares when you are in power, we will transparently privatize. ... Yeah, you're proud of how you sold INA shares as defenders, just be proud! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46800	Thank you. We'll stop working now. I'm determining a break. We start at 3 p.m. and the first is on behalf of HSU Zeljko Schamper. It's 13,29 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46801	... I will look back, unlike the other colleagues, on the 2012 audit report on the implementation of the state budget. [[Home is not saved.]] We have before us a report on the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. We can see from it how important the revenues and expenditures of the state budget were. The most significant revenue from the tax achieved is 64 billion kuna, which accounts for 58% of all revenues. In the tax income structure, the most significant share of 63% has VAT. The revenue from the contribution is estimated at €38 billion and accounts for 35% of all revenues. From this, contributions to pension insurance relate to around 19 billion, and contributions to health insurance amounting to nearly 17 billion. From these most significant indicators, we see that incomes from taxes and contributions together account for 93% of operating income in 2012. As far as spending parties are concerned, the biggest expenditures are for compensation to citizens and households on the basis of insurance and compensation of HRK 64 billion or 54% of all expenditures. For pensions and pension income paid to users on the basis of the right of established pension insurance rules, they shall amount to 35 billion kuna while health insurance and health care benefits recorded through HZZO amount to 21 billion kuna. When we talk about paid pensions and pension incomes of 35 billion kuna, we have to mention that 19 billion kunas were collected from the contributions while revenue from the budget amounted to 16 billion, which amounts to 54:46. It is important to mention that after 4 years of constant drop in revenues from contributions in 2012 they increased by 215 million kuna compared to 2011. In addition to these important indicators of revenue and expenditure for 2012, I was personally interested in the opinion of the State Audit Office on a conditional or unconditional basis with regard to a number of tasks and recommendations for the 2011 revision. For 2011, a number of irregularities were identified and the Ministry of Finance ordered them to be removed or taken the necessary actions and to accept the proposed recommendations so as not to be repeated in further business. We see from this report that in 2012, something was realized, something is in the process of execution, but there are still irregularities that continue to be repeated in 2012. In the context of the 2011 audit, the State Audit Office expressed its opinion that the annual report should fill in the data on outstanding commitments made by budgetary users, on government debt, on guarantees issued and on claims for revenues from the state budget and on state property. The provisions of the Regulation on the half-yearly and annual report on the implementation of the budget are laid down the content of that report, which does not provide for the entry of data on outstanding commitments by budgetary users, budget claims and state property, and the assessment of the audit that the annual report for 2012 is drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation. Regardless of the rule, I believe that such important items and data are still to be found in the annual report. the recommendations that have not been implemented and where irregularities are repeated are one of the priority measures, which is the modernisation of the State Treasury system where a separate public debt recording information system is needed with the SAP system. Liabilities to loans from international and financial institutions as well as guarantees commitments are still entered manually into the main book of the state budget. In the main book, there are no data on claims relating to taxes, contributions, customs duties and others. No criteria have been adopted for the distribution of revenue works under the provisions of the Happiness Act intended for the activities of assistance organisations for humanitarian purposes. Some of the recommendations of the 2011 revision are in the enforcement process, which is that there are no data on state property owned by the Republic of Croatia. that is where the Ministry of Finance has initiated certain activities under its jurisdiction. The Agency and the State Office for State Property Management have been provided a guideline as a result of the project. In the context of the State Treasury Modernisation Project, the integration of information systems and the integration of financial operations of museums, universities, courts, centres for social care, which do not, in part, operate through a government budget account in the State Treasury system. Last year, in the same discussion of the 2011 Annual Report, I talked about the inequality of the concession register and the main book on presented data where part of the final concession contracts had not been entered and it was difficult to monitor the collection due to inability to see the status of the concessionaire's debt data. In this respect, the Ministry of Finance ordered FINA in March of this year to improve the system of concession registers and to establish an effective system of collection, recording and storage of data as well as the management of the database where concession providers should be able to directly enter the contract data into the concession register. I've been informed these days that the concession register has finally been taken care of, so this remark of mine is off the table. On the basis of identified irregularities and observed and failures from previous years which have not yet been removed as established for 2012 the State Audit Office shall give a conditional opinion. In my opinion, all state records should be appropriate and an example of all other lower levels of governance in the Republic of Croatia and the ultimate objective and outcome of unconditional opinion. The Croatian Retired Party Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46802	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46803	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of State Audit, MPs and MPs. Quite interesting thesis and debates were here and now from Mr. Shemper and from predecessors in the morning part of the debate with various different positions of course. The structural problems of the Croatian state budget, i.e. the Croatian state or those of the Croatian economy, were also discussed. There are also various issues and ideas about what is really a central problem of ineffectiveness of the Croatian economy, so I would only briefly refer to a few issues about what are the central but structural problems of the Croatian economy, certainly the pension and health system which is of 110 billion incomes only our two State Health and Pension Insurance Institutes bear around 57 billion kuna, fiscal policy, monetary policy, or monetary policy failure, to better direct the activity of foreign-owned business banks, to be more in the interest of developing the Croatian economy and Croatian society regardless of the interests of their own profits. The problem of liquidity as well as the problem that always stands out as a structural problem for the Croatian economy where it can be said that certain measures have received certain results and that a certain tax... set even though non-availability has not been solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is also because we believe that the structural problem is actually the Croatian economy, and this is too much of an addiction of the domestic economy to state investment, or too much commitment. There, unlike the finance minister who, as a public central, structural problem, highlighted the problem of excessive actual accumulation in real estate and real estate, we think that there is, that much more significant structural problem is that in fact too much part of the Croatian economy that is not state-owned but private actually depends on itself, investment interventions, the business that the state brings. And as soon as the state slightly reduces the inputs actually a good part of the economy, and too much of the economy and not just the construction sector, but the whole series of activities are starting to stagnate. Or when a state that was a non-payment generator starts late on payments, then actually, in fact, that chain is too fast, too fast, or that lump is rolling too fast, precisely because it's an disproportionately large part of the economy. And why was such a large part of the economy tied to the central state? Well, he was tied up because he has a highly centralised state, of course. In the first row, that's why. So, the state is highly centralised and everything that can be taken is taken into that center, the central cash register. And on the other hand, because everybody knows that from the state you can get... jobs in those amounts regardless of whether they are construction, whether they are public affairs, whether they are services in those amounts that are not obtained in real relationships between companies. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that the state was always that employer who paid the most. Unreally overpaid, regardless of what service or activity it was. Well, of course, then it's always better to try to get into business with the state, even if it's months late. So if you have to wait years and years to go to markets where you actually do your services, your products or your goods sell them at a very often double or triple the price than I do in my business relationship with the state as a private company. And this unhealthy relationship, which perhaps to some political, some economic structures responded during the recession period, came back as a boomerang. Because the good part of the economy has actually shown the inability to deal with the market. That there is no product, no goods and no service with which he can compete anywhere except to the state if the state opens that business. So we don't think, we don't think that the problem is actually real estate, unlike the finance minister who thinks it's actually a real estate problem, so he's going to tax them, so he's going to lower their prices, so he's going to activate them, so banks are going to turn that asset out of real estate into some investment or something. We think, and then there's going to be billions spilling what's in the budget, which is in the funds, which is in the development, which is in the investments, and then some cycle is going to happen. We don't think that's how a cycle would happen at all. But that's the question of concept. As far as this report itself is concerned, there are a lot of interesting things in it, reports on the implementation of the State budget for 2012. Well, here I am going to refer to some things that the predecessors didn't refer to that I'm not repeating. For example, spending, the finance minister on several occasions praised today that the state has poured into the real sector through the state budget 4 billion kuna. First, in 2011, it was 4.5 billion kuna, in the 2012 plan, that was 4 billion and 170 million kuna, so it was a reduction in the budget by 8%, and the execution was another 100 million kuna, so at the level of 4 billion. So the state actually introduced 4 billion and 72 million kuna in 2012 through subsidies from companies to farmers and craftsmen outside the public sector, as opposed to 4 billion and 545 million kuna in 2011. So less, even less compared to the planned budget. Also reduced were aids within the general budget of the state, so the plan was 4.9 billion, and 4 billion and 725 million kuna were realised, so 175 million kuna was less realised and helped within the general budget. And what the expenditure, which was not praised, increased to, say, interest, loans and loans received, planned a billion and 430 million kuna, and realised a billion and 810 million kuna. So for about 400 million kuna, we have increased government budget expenditure in 2012 only on interest for loans and loans received. So de facto compared to the budget we are less, even compared to the budget we have less invested in subsidies to companies, agriculture, craftsmen and aid within the general budget, and we have spent more on interest on loans. So we took more credit than we planned in the budget through various tranches. When we look at the ministries here's the execution in 2012 we see that most of the ministries have kept more or less planned budgets and that only more serious breakthrough is actually made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The foreign ministry is not in absolute terms some large numbers, but it was a plan of 620 million kunas to implement the budget, and they spent 670 million kunas, meaning 50 million kunas more compared to the 2012 budget. The 108% index, according to the foreign ministry's index, was the most widespread among state ministries. It might be worth mentioning. When looking at the structure of this consumption, it is evident that most of the consumption went to the salaries and services that have increased, especially for the diplomatic and consular network, but we did not notice that the network was expanding in 2012. Thus, it was unlikely that the costs were being adequately looked after. But it did not prevent the minister from finding a million and 800 thousand kuna for loans from the ministry, at least that's how the budget item, which the foreign ministry gave as loans to non-profit associations, citizens and legal persons. This is about the ministry, while all other ministries are more or less spinning around the index 101 percentage points up and down, a good part of the ministries has actually spent slightly less than the funds planned in the 2012 budget. What is also worrying, and none of the predecessors particularly apostrophe, is the debt of the central state, the direct debt of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2012. The debt of the central state in 2012 increased from 140 to 163.5 billion kuna through various forms of short- and long-term borrowing. It means that in 2012, the state was in charge of 23.5 billion kuna. In light of this, you boast that by reducing the deficit by 4 billion kuna, and further increasing the debt by 23 billion kuna is indeed an interesting data. So there's a clear view of which tranches and how they were in debt, where most of that debt was really on interest 5, 6, 7% in various forms. I don't know whose kids are gonna pay it back, if mine's gonna get there. However, this dynamic of the central government's debt in just one year for the 23.5 billion kuna is really worrying and I wonder what we're going to read next year about how many billion central states have been in debt this year, because if this dynamic continues with this exponential growth because this is exponential growth in 2012 then the question of what numbers we're going to end up with. Now something short on actually the largest consumption rate in the Croatian state budget is pensions. Total for pensions and pension incomes in the implementation of the state budget of 36 billion and 200 million kuna. What I really mean is one of our social mistakes, not this government created it, but it represents one mistake of this society, that's what half of it, 17 billion and 700 million kuna went for the retirement pensions exactly. The other half is leaving for all other forms of diverse pensions that we managed to create, inherit, establish, take over and so forth in this society. So of 36, 35 billion kunas, half of them go for our seniors, so those people who did their full-time work and ended up in retirement. The other half goes, I don't know if it makes any sense to list, the Croatian military, parliamentary representatives, former JNA members, executive council, political prisoners, HAZU, NOB fighters, MUP, Croatian Homeland Army, disability pensions, family pensions, insurance, other incomes, defenders and the like. No category there is particularly necessary to single out, but that is one of our problems that we have, which we have been creating for decades and now we are in a position to allocate 35 billion kunas but only half for our senior pensioners, and the other half for all these different categories of actually privileged pensions that were created in this system or that system. And I don't know if anyone has any answer to how to change that? I don't. When it comes to the State Audit Report, the State Audit therefore gave a conditional opinion with a whole series of very good remarks, they are, as usual, even more than usual, self-disclosure in the evaluations but the assessments that have been made are actually very core. It's the only thing that needs to be carefully read in order to get to them at all. But again, I'm just going to mention those examples that actually the predecessors didn't mention that I don't longer it is, for example, a credit tranche by various arrangements that were taken without a program, without a spending plan, and then these loans are not used, taken on purpose, and then the state still has to pay hundreds and hundreds of thousands of euros to return or not use these loans because someone was needlessly taking them, so actually the State Audit makes an observation that whoever thinks and takes a targeted credit to have a clear plan, dynamics and really is the reason why he takes it. And that whoever approves it within the government is careful to see if there's a reason to approve it. And finally, here comes Madam Vice-President, given everything said and overall on the difficult economic situation in the Croatian HDSSB club, will not support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46804	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46805	My colleague Đurović, you were really this comprehensive in your presentation of budget-related thinking in 2012, in last year's. I mean, start in a row. You were talking about economic branches, so here I am, like my colleague Milinkovic, going to mention pig farming as one of the branches of agriculture and, for example, about. the duty-free imports of pork which have destroyed Croatian agriculture, Croatian swine fever, and imports have been given by our government, or the Ministry. I don't know who signed those importers, who they were signed in, and how much pig meat was imported into the Republic of Croatia and who got first of all that import. Whether it's on the best man's line or not, I don't know which one. Furthermore, you said that the Croatian state was highly centralised, and then this importing thing was also a matter of centralization of this country. The real estate problem you also talked about and you said that around 4 billion kunas were pumped into the real sector less than planned for about 500 million kunas, let us only remember that the contribution to health insurance in Croatia has been reduced from 15% to 13%, with the minister's promise that everything will remain the same. But it happened that the health care now owed 5 billion kuna, and it was pumped into the real sector. What did we get? 4 billion are pumped into the real sector, 5 billion kuna is a minus in the health care of the Republic of Croatia or a long hospital, a new long hospital in the Republic of Croatia. So that's what you should think about. Because if you've already talked about the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, then we need to talk about HZZO.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46806	Thank you. Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46807	Yes, when it comes to agriculture and those structural problems, I forgot to mention certainly our structural problem is that we failed to use our comparative advantage and our agricultural production, food production and food processing to make a single activity that would be truly profitable for the Republic of Croatia. In this context, and this problem of yours all the trends in agriculture, we know them very well as they are moving and it is interesting that despite the fact that, for example, the price of milk purchases continues to change and that the number of those who hand over milk is decreasing from year to year by several tens of thousands that here are the last two, three months the price of milk and milk processing increased by 15 to 20%. So the processors simply raised prices, and the buyers, or those who hand over milk to them, remained exactly the same. We can and should develop tourism and it is good to develop it, it is no matter what some say is low income, it is in our conditions of high income activity. But not all of us can't be unemployed, not all of us can fit in between waiters and maids. And our people from Slavonia can't all stand between waiters and maids. Therefore, these people should be allowed to stay working in agriculture, to stay working in the agricultural and processing industry, and in fact, the food industry of the Republic of Croatia is what it was and remains, in fact, one of those backbones of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46808	On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46809	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's the opening line, and for starters, I'm actually going to quote something that I think, on several occasions, Minister Linic said not just today in this assembly in this House, but otherwise in public about how everyone would change in Croatia and no one would change, no one would reform. Few people say what reforms are and I must say it was very nice to hear those observations of the Minister of Finance because that is exactly how we are often in the previous government and I will listen to the advice of my colleague Jelusic who said you compare this report with 2011. So a lot of times just like that, when we were talking about raising the VAT by 1% and then this current government increased the VAT by 2%, and when my colleague Caine was sorry that he didn't have it here, he said that it was the government of Jadranka Kosor we'd dig up her eyes and so on and so on and so on. So these are the debates that always lead to one conclusion, we should always appreciate what others have done and simply go on where someone else has stepped in those processes and in that business for which, personally or as a government, in general, as a government that leads each state or runs the Republic, given our system, the best and certainly not to start a business always from scratch. Why am I saying that? Because there is one document that I have brought to this debate about the state of finances, the state of public finances since 15 December 2011 where all the main components of what is also the structure of the budget but of course of what the previous government did and the entry for the work of the new Government, which was elected now on 4 December 2011. This report shows when compared, as counterpart Jelusic says, when the main macroeconomic indicators are compared, he clearly speaks about trends and clearly speaks at the end of this report on what the 2013 budget was really supposed to bring or better put forward to what he should have insisted on. The Government itself therefore finds that the Ministry of Finance has seen a fall in economic activity during 2012. The good news certainly decreases the deficit, but the government itself finds a stronger real GDP reduction of 2%. I will compare the main macroeconomic data from 2011 and 2012. So GDP has been said many times in 2011 even though we had two quarters where we recorded a growth of 0.6. 0.8% in the end it was zero but much more important than that it seems to me that there was a trend, so the trend we expected this government to continue. The consumption of households, I will return to GDP, of course when you consider how it was a year before 2010 and then how it was in 2009 where the GDP decline was almost 7%. Household consumption 2011 growth from 0.2%, 2012 to 3%. Export of goods and services 2% in 2011 0.2%. Industrial production was in 2011. It was a 1.2% decline, however, in 2012. 5.5 so minus 5.5. Traffic from the store to a bit, I understand that it may not interest someone but I am the same as the representative so far all the representatives of the clubs and all those who have replicated obediently, moderately, calmly and constantly listened to it so please. If I don't understand that someone might not be interested in it, and maybe they're also irritated by the data I've been saying since I ran the government, but here I am still going to listen to all of you other colleagues with great care and respect. So industrial production in 2011 we weren't satisfied was that minus 1.2 or 2012.30 minus 5.5%. The retail trade already said we had a 1% growth in 2011 but it was a fall in 2012. Of course, colleagues and colleagues that in this report, the government itself finds that the consumption of citizens has been reduced. And it is good that the finance minister here is very open and clearly said that the heavy burden of the additional VAT increase by 2% was borne by citizens. And that's definitely exactly what you see on this data. However, I think it is now shown that if the government wanted to admit not to us, not to the public, but to build their own projections and their future political decisions, then certainly the reduction in electricity prices, for example, of 16.4%, was unnecessary. I claimed that and then taking into account the information on how a state-owned public enterprise called HEP ended in 2011. So it's perfectly safe with a profit of more than 100 million kuna. Under these conditions, there was no need to increase electricity prices and the argument more is the announcements we hear these days from HEP that they will reduce electricity prices. It will decrease, of course, because of what happened to the competition. But that's one, so it hasn't been over in 10 years, it's been a relatively short time. And that's certainly another piece of evidence that there was no need for an increase in electricity prices. The increase in gas prices is higher than 21%. Therefore, the price as the government has observed in this food report, so the food products of what they are, something that no family can give up has increased by 3.9 means almost 4%. So that's what they are, and that's why I was talking about the conclusions that I believe the government will draw from this report. For 2013, it is certainly too late, we will discuss the implementation of the 2013 budget but these are, these are some major indications of what the government should do in the future. Of course, I speak now on my own behalf and on behalf of my Club, we want every government elected in the democratic elections that has won the citizens' mandate of success. Because today we are a member of the European Union, because our obligations and I personally look forward to having fiscal responsibility differently, that we passed the Law in 2010 it is a good law and, as you can see, we have implemented the Law. So it's a law which, of course, has great limitations and it's certainly something new, but I don't think it would be good to change the main structure, or the main part of what the Fiscal Responsibility Act has brought. Because as a member of the European Union, we are to continue to act responsibly, not to spend more than we have. And so I repeat, the good news from this report is the deficit reduction. But the bad news is the increase in the number of unemployed. So on average 324 thousand 323 and see 2011. 305,000 in 2010 better 302,000 and today's data are 314 thousand 864 unemployed. However, the number of employees decreased compared to 2012. So in 2012, we had a million 411 thousand 238 employees and that number fell to a million 395 thousand 116 in 2012. So, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, we need to discuss it. As for the document I mentioned in 2011, so from December 15th on the state of public finances. It is a document I have submitted with everything else and to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. The document lists the most important things we have done, including in measures to combat indifference. Therefore, in previous years, the government has taken and made strong moves and taken strong measures that did not occur when given the time when the government talks about the mid-2009 to the end of 2011. However, here, I suggest you look at this document that has not hidden anything, it has very clearly brought a review of the obligations made to suppliers and reached claims from customers. He clearly pointed out how we reduced the billing time, which was certainly one of the fundamental intentions of what we were doing. However, in order to prevent an increase in liquidity, the Ministry of Finance sent a request by the end of that year to launch bankruptcy proceedings for 3010 companies. Commercial courts under official duty have launched a erasure procedure for 13,000 blocked legal persons. Initiated and continued eradicating 24,000 legal entities. The number of business entities has been reduced in short-term blockade up to 60 days by 30.3% at monthly level and the amount of their outstanding payment bases by 33.9%, etc. I'd like to mention the downsizing of the so-called. non-taxed payments on average by 25% in the years preceding this 2012 which is for us a reporting year. I absolutely and fully support and support at the Club all measures to further introduce order, that's good, that's important, of course everyone doesn't always like it. The fact is, in spite of the specific point, I would say an expression that has a minister of finance and the measures he takes as you can see is climbing on a scale of popular politicians in the Republic of Croatia. So it's kind of indicative. But my recommendation is that a minister who unfortunately doesn't have to be here right now that this debate today in the assembly really doesn't feel like a mere criticism, but rather like taking out experiences and people who have done this job in recent years. I think for Croatia the gain is that at this point here we have two finance ministers who have done this job in the previous period and that their discussions should be taken very carefully, studied. Because anyone who has done this job and ministry, especially the finance ministers and the prime minister in particular, is hardly likely to be exposed to a mere criticism of criticism. I think it's people who discuss it relevantly and with data. So I won't call for consensus because we're tired of it already but constructively arguing yes. I think the debate so far has been good, that it has been constructive, especially I support all those seeking additional measures in public enterprises. I support the minister in further introducing order in public enterprises. I know what it's like to know that even in previous years, the public companies and the management of the public enterprises we've replaced have not respected any decisions, but neither have the instructions of the previous government. Therefore, there is a need to put an additional emphasis on this. Unfortunately, the 2013 indicators do not in any way instill optimism, and that scares me. In the end, I have a very specific question, time is up, but the vice presidents just a moment, so I ask the Ministry's representatives to explain it to me, I can't possibly interpret it in any way, so in the position of paying off the principal loans received and loans from credit and other financial institutions in the public sector is planned for 2012. 215 million 273 thousand 809 kuna, and made for 2012, 283 million 960 million 370 kuna and 58 limes. So does this mean that it's so much planned for what I was talking about when we discussed the 2012 budget, it means if it's so much planned for the principal's payment, it means a billion and more than it's planned for. Here's a question, and I believe I'll get an answer for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46810	Thank you very much. Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46811	Dear counterpart Kosor, you were talking about a segment of which the government and we in the Parliament and especially HEP are running a very large account, which you were talking about increasing the price of electricity, whether there should have been an increase in the price of electricity or not. It seems you're right because it turns out there shouldn't have been an increase in power or if there were to be an increase in electricity then it's one measure that's not good for HEP. It is absolutely certain that it should be welcomed to lower prices because citizens are tense and citizens are finding it increasingly difficult to bring the end to an end and it is certainly a good decision to cut electricity prices and they say it because of more favourable meteorological conditions, I think and climate change because the climate has changed politically. Which is why, because of competition and competition has certainly brought something new to the market, which does not mean that we should not look forward to it, we need to talk seriously about the fate of HEP. What HEP, HEP, is too important a company in the Republic of Croatia to simply leave cases on the market, and not plan to do much in advance, analyze what happened in Europe when competitors on the market, what can happen to us, and certainly that we should also have a debate in the Croatian Parliament on the energy situation in the Republic of Croatia, in the future which will happen in the Republic of Croatia compared to Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46812	Replica response, colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46813	Thank you very much. So both mine and your debate are actually identical to those discussions we had last year. Since the decision to increase the price of electricity and then gas, heating, etc., it hasn't been long, we can say a year. Therefore, if it is then and then we argued, given the results of HEP's 2011 operations, so HEP ended up positive. HEP, however, did not say that earlier, HEP invested, so HEP started investing in the past 2011, started investing, and nevertheless had as well as we have seen good results. Therefore, there was no reason for an increase, and the evidence for this is the fact that a cut in electricity prices is now being announced. In the meantime, a lot has happened, citizens, every collection of something of the citizens, are additionally scary, further forcing citizens to close down to not spend what they might or should be looking for, of course, the causes of the reduction in consumption recorded in the report. And most importantly, in that past period, although electricity prices have increased, I haven't seen any increased investment, so HEP investment, which was the intensity of this government, it's good, it's good to ask public companies to look for that investment space, but as we can see, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46814	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46815	Thank you. In your presentation, you touched one of my favorite topics, which is the number of employees. Always that topic that was always relatively less important in this society, we were always worried about how many unemployed they were, how many social cases there were, how much of it. So we never cared about how busy he is, what every society is doing vitally, how many people do, how many people create added value. It's always been such a one-way thing to us, it's always enough, it's important to have this other one. Of course, the number of employees, so this is a key question of how many people work and what is the answer that economic growth is when they say in the United States, the government is successful and this month it opens 195,000 new jobs and 195,000 new jobs are of course employed by 195,000 new employees. We never measured the success of politics, no matter how many jobs opened that month. No, we have a success in whether the state budget has raised another 100 or 200 million kuna more so that it can trade. Well, it's not a success of state policy, so the success of state policy is how many jobs are open. This is the way the American government boasts every month, and when the recession is then speaking, now a certain number of jobs have been closed, and when the rise is again, the number of jobs has been opened. No, we've never had anything of interest in a public focus. Our possible focus is on how much we have managed to collect into the state budget so that we can meet all our needs better and so God forbid we do nothing more seriously structurally in this Croatian society. So I really agree with that focus on how many people are working, how many jobs are opening, how many jobs are new employees, followed by answers to all these other issues both on VAT and on consumption growth and on better filling the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46816	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46817	I agree with you, and I think that in the future we here in the Parliament should monitor daily as we have monitored how many unemployed today are more than 314 000, and let's see how many employees are on today. As we can see, the 2011 comparison shows that the number of employees has been reduced and that is something we need to further open discussions on. But then within that and about the structure, then within how many young people are employed. It means not how many, but how many have been employed in a year. Why does it matter? Well, with everything else due to the pension system, we're now a country almost equalizing one, so one employee, one pensioner. And previous colleagues have already said many times how much we choose to retire, and how much we have to separate from the state budget. And it becomes intolerable, and the more employees we have, so those who do what their wages are, that's also one topic. So it's not enough to be employed, but to be employed in such a way that he can live off his work. These are topics that should be relevant and perhaps we should finally consider in the relevant parliamentary bodies special discussions on the subject of staff and everything that goes with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46818	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic's club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy with associates, chief state auditor, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, it is not necessary to repeat the figures and facts presented in the results of the budget, i.e. the implementation of the budget of revenue and expenditure, and therefore, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, I would, of course, give a positive opinion and vote on these two reports and the Audit report on the implementation of the budget. The argument would be based not only on these figures, which some colleagues spoke of, but on the essence of the budget's functions, and whether that budget achieved that function which is why it exists. So the budget is not just meeting budget needs, budget users making states, making extra budgets. It essentially shows the country's most important goals in the fiscal year. It also serves as an instrument that affects the country's economic situation and serves, of course, the basic system of control, collection and consumption of tax funds. What we actually had in the last year to satisfy these basic functions of the budget which is why we exist and what we got essentially in 2012 we can freely say and clearly that... consolidation of budget consolidation and budget deficits, consolidation of costs within budget users but not sufficiently. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have heard it clearly from the minister. Respect for fiscal rules and enhanced fiscal discipline. This enhanced fiscal discipline, as I understand it on behalf of all speakers, is basically welcomed, because it is also the basic and responsible behaviour of a government towards all citizens to ensure that they have to and should pay taxes so that they are all equal, i.e. there is no tax avoidance and that absolutely all laws are respected. When we talk about an instrument of a state that affects the economic situation in the country, then I must repeat what I have already talked about in some other debates which that segment of the economic situation in the country which has essentially caused, in addition to the macroeconomic environment, the situation that our economy is in a bad economic situation. Therefore, the total value of the unexecuted basis for paying business entities in June last year, meaning 74000 business entities did not make a payment worth 43 billion kuna. More than 85% of these entities were in business blockade. For over 360 days, there were 56718 business entities and a total of 36 billion kuna. When it comes to the employee, the unemployed, then it should be said that 38518 legal persons with 41,000 registered employees were in a 36 billion kuna blockade. Now, if someone can say that these citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have had work books and work contracts, and haven't received salaries in years, are employees, then I really think we need to change some laws and status on employees and unemployed. The natural persons or craftsmen of 35 thousand who had been blocked for more than a year were 28 thousand 820 so on. employees. When you add that up then you have more than 50,000 real people who have citizens and citizens who have not received salaries for more than a year. Of course, with all the measures, and especially with those measures since May last year, the law that no salaries can be paid if no contributions are paid with the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement with other measures of the Ministry of Finance and other ministries is fully clear that a large part of these workers unfortunately have been poured into the Croatian Employment Office and directly contributed to the growth of the number of unemployed, and unfortunately most of these citizens and citizens I have expressed here in tens of thousands are actually people who are much harder, much harder to find a job in the real sector because they are more than 40 and are mostly with medium professional support. And so when we talk about the impact of the budget on the state of affairs then and that segment that is related to the laws, and they provide and enable new employment to liberalise and stimulate the employment of people who have a multi-annual internship but who do not have enough competitiveness on the market and to educate themselves and to get the opportunity to earn what is most important for their existence and for the confidence of people who have confidence in the only right people who work and create for themselves and their family. What this budget and all the measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia took in 2012, and it is being passed on in 2013 is essentially improving the regulatory framework for investment, facilitating the conditions for employment and what is key, and much has been discussed in the debates about the cost side of this budget, the expenditure side of this budget which is as it is this year 2013 and it can very little be changed in this segment by looking at the overall budget. But the message is clear from this government, it has also been conveyed by the finance minister, which is that pensions and salaries are not allowed to be further touched, means to protect absolutely the most vulnerable social aspects, to protect all those who work both in the health and in the school system, which is extremely important to us because this is the basis on which education is essentially built, the future of this country and the health care that is extremely important for tradition and because health is one of the most important elements of every citizen's life. 2013 as a consequence of this budget and all the measures that were in 2012 should essentially be and this is what we expect the year of rotation. It has not yet been implemented, because all measures have not been implemented specifically in that segment of the economy that needs to be competitive, which needs to be put down as we say manually and go into new entrepreneurial ventures, and this government to ensure the safety and stability of the legislative framework and what the budget must be clear in a way that there is no new burden on investment or employment to be part of what is called discharge. This 2013 must be the year of the turn, this year 2013 after 2012 and this consolidated budget will be believed at the end of the year quite a clear year which opens 2014 as a year of development. And for this reason, this 2012 budget, which has secured a 3% deficit that has ensured absolute stability in the payment of all the obligations that the state has for health, education, social, pensions, etc. indicator that this government is at the moment of the takeover, and I will not look back at that 2011 and on but taking over all those obligations and all those guarantees that have been said from the shipyard now the healthcare center is waiting for us HZ, the Pension Fund, etc. ensure that it shows primarily Croatian citizens and the Croatian public that it knows how to manage their money and that it knows and wants to provide them with a better and better future, employment and development of the economy because for the debate on expenditures as I said, there have been a lot of words and will likely be in individual debates but what is crucial this government must raise the revenue side because not only does it reduce both the deficit and ensure the return of loans to all guarantees or public debt, but it ensures new employment of gross products and what is the most important smile on the face of citizens, new employment and progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46820	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46821	I apologize to the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I don't think there's one here in the assembly when it's full of any parliamentary MPs who don't want this government well. I don't think there's a person who doesn't want to succeed because it's the success of all of us, our children, our grandsons, we certainly don't need to doubt that. In view of these figures when looking at the macro-economic environment table in 2012 in which it appears to be growing only then, means growing only then, all the minuses themselves. Then this budget in 2012 where the deficit, the reduced expenditure, increased income is fantastic and I have already said that before. However, political and economic trends are important and the trend is not good. And we're just afraid of that trend. You said in 2013 there should be a year of twisting. Even the unbelievers say thank God that's how it is. To be the year of the turn and to happen what should happen to finally be the state coming out of the crisis, to show up, to be like someone said positive zero, even though they never knew what negative zero was. Positive zero and negative zero, but I guess one day I'll figure it out. So we all want to really be the year of the turn in 2013 but the trend is announcing something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46822	And Ivan Shuker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46823	Thank you very much. So regardless of what a colleague Gjurkovic is, you said this 2012 Implementation Report would be consolidated in 2013. And that's exactly what we're afraid of looking at indicators purely budgetary for the first six months. If your income is less than 2.5 billion in the first 6 months than in the same period 2012, if your expenditure is more than 2 billion than in the same period in 2012, if the deficit for the first 6 months has reached the planned annual deficit level, then one elemental question is raised. Since we have so far not passed a single law that makes any significant structural reform that should happen on the spending side to keep the spending party at the level of 2012 and I say it is now higher by two billion than in 2012 when we know that the expenditure side is made of salaries, pensions, subsidies, interest, health care. So that's the part that carries 90.5.6% of the budget. Given that the minister today said that there is no reduction in these costs, I do not understand where the consolidation will take place to keep the budget deficit within the limits of 2012. So we're talking about the spending side. What awaits us is the shock on the revenue side, which is that late payment of VAT, so no more VAT payments on imports of goods than it will simply happen a month, two or three later, the state will not be left without that money. But it will be charged two, three months later and simply in one financial year that amount will be missing. The next shock is the 10% reduction in catering, so they get all the goods from 25% and their services will be sold in 10% and will simply happen in the 7th, 8th, 9th month large tax return. So, on the one hand, the shock on the spending side because structural reforms did not produce a reduction in expenditure, but on the other hand, the income side is what it is. So these are data from the Ministry of Finance's website no one invented them. Therefore, simply data that do not indicate consolidation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46824	Reply to replica Srdjan Gjurkovic
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46825	Dear fellow, of course, your data is correct and what's key is these trends in the revenue side. So, what is expected, of course, by the end of the year to be clear indicators that the economy is not going to say lively but to return to that optimistic entrepreneurial impulse that can, of course, only be seen through statistics again, of course not the story, but through statistics. And I believe that all these measures and including the budget are so set up that it will be visible and that we will all look forward to a development year 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46826	We're moving on to an individual debate. First up, she's a colleague of Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46827	I would like to thank the respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament, a respected head of state treasurer, respected chief state auditor with co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. So we know that one of the three main objectives of government policy in 2012 was fiscal consolidation, so a reduction in the budget deficit. I remind you that in 2011, the budget deficit was 14 billion kuna or 4.2% of gross domestic product. The high budget deficit does not necessarily have to be an alarming fact all depends on the state of the national economy. So, once a potent, dynamic economy that it invests, which it exports and which it grows is not a problem or a slightly larger budget deficit. Because he will cover himself with a future new creation. But for Croatia, which is highly in charge, which has no investment, where industrial production falls, where competitiveness falls, where the poor external trade balance is a high deficit is very dangerous. Because it inevitably leads to a credit rating reduction, we have already witnessed more expensive borrowing. So, therefore, into an even greater deficit and ultimately into one debt slavery. Since 1 July of this year, Croatia is a member of the European Union, so it has entered a regulated system whose rules of conduct absolutely need to be followed. We know that the two basic criteria of the sustainable fiscal policy of the European Union are defined by the Maastricht Treaty. These two criteria are next, so the annual budget deficit should not exceed 3% of GDP and public debt should not exceed 60% of GDP. Non-compliance with these criteria can lead to serious financial sanctions by the European Commission, including, of course, suspension of European funds. So we will be denied access to the European funds that we really need, and we expect much from them. So it must be clear to us that from the beginning of next year, as will other countries that are in a similar position as we are, which also have a high budget deficit, that the European Commission will ask us very uncomfortable questions, that it will seek to bring this budget deficit below 3% and that it will certainly set us a certain deadline within which we have to do so. It would be very good of course if that deadline was as long as possible. All in all, it will be very difficult to actually make a projection or a draft budget for 2014 because already here we see that it will be very difficult to keep the deficit at the existing level, so to 3.4% and let alone reduce it below 3%. As for the second Maastricht criterion, the public sector debt now reaches 54% of GDP, with it up to 57% to 58% in the coming months of this year due to the cost of consolidation of the health system and shipbuilding. With further borrowing, public debt could penetrate that 60 per cent of GDP limit, and that would certainly not be good. It would be with all the other consequences actually one very bad message to foreign investors of whom we have high expectations for investment in our country. And the other thing, other than this budget deficit that I'd like to say about, is that I would say the insidious remark that we've heard very often lately, which is that the current government is carrying out a financial consolidation based on a tax press. So no tax press, no tax press, but there are presses to introduce order into public finances, so to introduce financial discipline. Of course, for those who have never paid taxes before, who have cheated on the state, this introduction of order into state finances is a kind of problem, so it's a press release. For them, it is simply a new situation and they are rebelling against it, so even those who so far have been responsible for fulfilling all their obligations as difficult as those who have obeyed the regulations of the state in which they live. Namely, whether it is a presence for entrepreneurs to pay their salaries to workers and contribute, that is, a contribution to health insurance and a contribution to pension insurance, that is, to the future pension of that worker. Is the press that even shoppers in the markets report their traffic, so those products they didn't produce, they're practically merchants. So whether it's logical and whether it's a press release to report those traffics and to orderly on these sales pay taxes. I don't think we can call it a press release. I stress again, therefore there is no tax press because no new tax has been introduced, and the VAT increase has been compensated by a reduction in health insurance contributions by 2%. Therefore, we can say that the results in the financial consolidation are achieved primarily through better work by tax authorities, by raising financial discipline, but also by saving, by cutting. And thanks to this very increased financial discipline, but also to the change in the tax policy, the revenues of the state budget have been increased by 2.3% despite the reduction in economic activity, and budget expenditures have been reduced by 1.7%, while neither pensions have been reduced, although they have been defrosted, we know that the previous government has frozen them, now they are in line with the cost of living, neither children's allowances nor maternity benefits are reduced nor benefits for the unemployed, nor the rights of defenders today. However, some rights of defenders are also extended and we certainly cannot ignore all of this in these conditions a significant achievement. The businessmen can't complain, especially on the IRS. On the contrary, the government charged them maximumly because the backdrop of the government's fiscal policy in 2012 was precisely the transfer of the tax burden from labour to consumption, hence from the economy to citizens. The intention was to reduce the labour price and increase the competitiveness of the economy. Now, some call it a neoliberal concept, i.e. by capital gain, and we call it saving the economy from which we all live, both states and citizens. And let me finally repeat what the government did for the economy, so I want to point out again that there were no presses but quite the opposite, that there were discharges of economic operators. So labour costs were reduced by reducing health contributions from 15% to 13%, and by that, the economy remained 2.6 billion kuna. Reinvested profit is tax-free. With that title again, there are 1.1 billion kuna left, so according to these two basics Croatian businessmen are actually not going to say revenue, but they have 4 billion kunas left more at their disposal. Furthermore, economics are allowed to beat debts to the state by claims from the state. Furthermore, HBOR’s capitalisation has provided far greater volume of credit to entrepreneurs, primarily for investments and at very favourable interest rates. So you can get a loan at a rate below 2% today. The border has been raised to enter the VAT system from 85 to 230 thousand kuna, the border has been raised for flat-rate taxation. Finally, there are measures to curb liquidity, so during 2012, two tax debt reprogrammes were carried out which reprogrammed 4.7 billion tax debts. So far, more than 8 billion kuna has been settled through a pre-fashion settlement. There is still an open opportunity to settle more debts. And what is extremely important, and what I particularly want to highlight, so through the reprogramme and through the pre-profit settlement will be preserved tens of thousands of jobs. So many Croatian citizens more, so many Croatian citizens would have ended up on the labour market more if these actions hadn't been taken and there were no companies preserved, and then jobs. In fact, we have to admit that the problem of unemployment is the number one problem of each government, and of course these are the current ones. So the government did the most that it could under these circumstances strengthen this entrepreneurial environment, and now it's actually up to entrepreneurs to do some of that and capitalize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46828	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46829	Comrade Jelash, you're saying the government doesn't conduct a tax press. So what do you mean, for example, dividend tax, the general VAT rate increased by two percentage points, from 23% to 25%, which is the only way to increase the tax burden of citizens by almost 9%. Enlargement of municipal services, energy 10, 15, 20, 30%. How can you not call it a tax press or think it's tax stimulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46830	Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46831	So, my colleague Babić, I stressed that the current government's policy last year was to transfer that tax press from citizens to, vice versa, from the economy to the citizens. And if we can talk about who, as a victim, really, the citizens are willing to make that sacrifice. We wanted to strengthen the economy, save jobs. For those citizens, they have a place to work. And the other thing I want to point out about that is that we are precisely for certain groups of citizens who we find difficult to introduce alive those social rates of VAT. So, from 10% to certain types of diet and certain services, above all, to the supply of water. So this should have helped those most critical groups of Croatian citizens to get over this tax coup. Otherwise, as for the increase in VAT from 23% to 25% in my view, VAT is one consumption tax and it may actually sound harshly fair through that tax to increase the press if it is done. In fact, whoever spends more VAT will pay, whoever spends less, and that's the one with less options will pay less VAT. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46832	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46833	Dear Madam President, there is a tax press, and there is no need for us to publicly declare ourselves in the same way but it is not important that I assure you here or you assure me of what the Croatian people think. You can't explain it to anyone that there's no tax press, there is. It's about two philosophy approaches to our problem economically. It went to the IRS, not the other way around. I'm a medic, so I'll tell you one way to understand what this is about. Linic took two three billion contributions from the health care center and said publicly there is no dilemma that he would take it up to the people in his pocket in order to make up for it, by taxes on the household, on an old country house, on a country that Grandma had to work on for 98 and a half years and that she would make up for it, given to health care. It's all gone wrong. Instead of limiting the health basket to consumers, means health services and thus reducing consumption and three, four billion, there is no problem in reducing spending in the health system by 4 billion and not falling hair from anyone's head, not even to reducing wages and labour. Because what we reduce the workforce doesn't go back to the state budget, what we give the worker is half automatically going back to the state budget. It was meant to reduce the use of health care through restriction, so health, standard medical baskets, not cash and say we're going to get it out of Grandma's pocket for 98 and a half years. It took me a while to understand myself, but I think through this example that you know what I was going to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46834	The answer to Nadica Jelash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46835	My colleague Marasovic, you have become an excellent macro economist, and as a former health worker, you should know that in most European countries, health care, the health care system is financed from the state budget, not from the contribution. So our intensity was to reduce the labour price, strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, and the growing part of the health system to finance from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46836	And Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46837	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Jelash. Well, you've had a very nice discussion, and it's really normal for me, since you're speaking from a position and you have to defend this government. And then when we listen here we could really say a little bit like in Alan Ford that life is nicer, we'd be better off. I mean, about like that. But I would refer to your market share. I'm really not in favour of not paying taxes, but I really think there should be other solutions than these machines that these ladies don't call him. They call it fiscalization at all, but they call it keyboards. They don't even know what it is. They don't really have market conditions, on those stands, or electricity, or the Internet, so I can't do that. And I think that the government would have to find a way to introduce a tax, or they would pay their taxes. But also my question is the same to the ministry, I won't propagate cigarettes, but it's completely illogical to have a stamp on one of the items that says 24 kunas, and to charge you for 25 kunas today, 26 kuna. We've heard that, we've read it in the papers, but when foreign tourists come to us, they can read very well, and when they see that it says 24, and this one pays them 25 people. It's not okay, it's really not okay. I don't mean because of the collection, let the cigarettes cost 30 kunas we'll stop smoking those who smoke, but please if the thing is that some item has its price then either let it not write or remove all the prices they write from the store means everyone can cheat on us. One is written that I don't know the bread 9 and 60 and he'll charge you at 15.20 because that's how it is here it doesn't matter. That's what it's all about, that's the point. And that 25% VAT really... Here, thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46838	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The answer to Nadica Jelash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46839	Dear fellow twilight, look at the market we're actually meeting two groups of sellers. One group is made up of our dear godmothers so that they produced the product that they sold and they were freed from fiscalization, so there's no problem there. The other group is made up of buyers and resellers, so those who did not produce the product that sold it they bought it and sold it at a different price, so they are nothing but sellers and they must be subject to the obligation of fiscalisation. And as for the insurance of the fiscalization conditions in the markets I'll tell you this, there's no problem in my Chakovec about fiscalization. So all fiscalization bonds settle your obligations neatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46840	My colleague, Ivan Shuker, would you like to have a discussion?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46841	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, Mr. Chief Treasury, Mr. Chief State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. So here, after a few hours of debate, let me bring out my thinking and thinking about this implementation of the 2012 budget. And we should remember what the basic objectives were when this budget was adopted, so the budget is the main instrument for economic policy-making, and we will therefore come to an answer whether the government hit its economic policy last year and whether economic policy has come true or not. So above all, as regards the expenditure side, the government thought that it would primarily cut material costs and salaries of employees, it proposed a reduction of certain subsidies and support, and this was some starting point to reduce the expenditure side of the budget i.e. to implement fiscal consolidation to reduce the deficit of the state budget. What happened? They couldn't cut their wages, for the simple reason why they couldn't just do it the way someone thought they had to do it, but they had to reach agreements and sign it. However, it is not a problem that these salaries did not fall in 2012 that definitely remains the problem of the state budget and the following year, according to the minister. However, one who knows how to run the right policy is aware that wages cannot be lost in such a way as to pay, in fact, the mass of wage funds will not talk about wage cuts can occur solely as a consequence of structural reforms. So what this budget gives us is an answer to the question last year, and that's what we're witnessing because I'd like someone to list the laws that we've passed here that have resulted in some structural reform. No such law has been passed here. Without structural reforms in view of the structure of the expenditure of the state budget of our colleague and colleague, we cannot reduce the expenditure side of the state budget. Because they just laughed at me here when I said five, six years ago that 80% of the budget was budgeted. Today, a colleague, Linic, can talk about 95% of the budget's budget with various rights. And you can't just cut them down like someone's gonna say I'm gonna cut it down. There are certain procedures, and you can't do them besides that. And therefore, when Dalic spoke about the expenditure side of the budget, unfortunately, the reflection on structural reforms feels already in the 2013 air. And we no longer have a problem with the 2012 budget. He's a finished story, which our people would say he's pasting but we have a problem with the 2013 budget because all these expenditures remained in 2013 but some are even bigger. The interest deficits are going to make it grow. Well, you had one completely wrong estimate of interest on the part of Croatia, unfortunately you won't. Interests have been moving there for 3.4 years between 5.8 and 6.8, so depending on what time and how you issue securities. So that's about the expense side. We can talk about whether the effect of reducing the subsidy in agriculture is positive or not, what happens to the railways is one accounting acrobatic because we gave them a grant, we gave them support but we gave them a guarantee. Tomorrow we will take that guarantee into public debt and in principle only with some kind of delay, our public debt increases by that amount. So we didn't do anything here either. The question of what will happen to rail reform and in general when we talk about public sector reforms first we talked about and there is a total mistake of economic policy that the main bearer of economic development and economic growth in the Republic of Croatia will be public enterprises. In this assembly, as early as the 10th month of last year, we were assured that Croatia would have an economic growth of no more than 1.7% but that it would have an economic growth of 0.7% so that in the third month of this year finally someone remembered and said no, public companies in Croatia could not be the bearers of an investment boom, they were not able to be carriers of economic development. But we've already lost 2013. Because everything that didn't start and call public tenders in the first quarter or by the 4th, 5th month 2013, means nothing that would have had an economic effect and economic growth since 2013. It's just facts. And it's a reflection in the budget. And someone from the Economic Institute can speak such signs, we see these signs every day on Croatian roads and on Croatian railways. As long as you don't have a tow truck on the highways, while you don't have freight trains on the tracks, that's a clear sign that you don't even have economic activity. Well, we can talk about macroeconomics in one way or another. And as for the revenue side, therefore, it was a very clear emergency and why it is public not to tell what it was, a complete consolidation of the state budget to put on the back of Croatian citizens. With one, it's an increase in value added tax by 8.7%. I'm not talking about 2% points because that doesn't sound credible enough. But you're saying that VAT increased 8.7% then that clearly tells how many citizens have gone all the way. The next step with which it was intended to drag its hand into citizens' pockets and in such a way to compensate for the reduction of the health contribution is so called. I don't know what his name was. Minister Linic also admitted here today no matter what some said, even for a time that he would not increase the amount of the tax in relation to the municipal fee. However, if you want to leave the same amount as the communal fee, which is one of the key sources, the original income units of local self-government, if you want to make up for 2% points, or three percentage points of the health contribution reduction, then that means that you plan to take 6.7 billion kuna additional to Croatian citizens, but not once but continuously. Because the income from the municipal fee at the level of local self-government units is about 2.5 billion kuna. So these are facts that we simply cannot escape from. So it's one blow to Croatian citizens. And let's not say it doesn't affect the standard. You must know that most Croatian citizens, most Croatian families when the total revenues are summed up, have revenues below 5.6,000 kuna. And they practically all the money they make if they spend what they need for life and if you raise their VAT by 8.7%, if you raise their electricity prices by 20 percent and something else, if you raise their gas prices by 37 percent, then you literally get 5.5.6 billion kuna out of their pockets. You literally took them. And that's what it says in this budget. These are simply facts and VAT revenues are up to three billion. But it's bigger because of this increase of 8.7% and because those basic supplies that are in the basket, that month's what unions like to call it, went up in awe, from 10 to 37%. Because I'm saying, you just have to buy some supplies. And that's the problem over which this government simply needs to see. Which government in the second half of this year must make a turn because we will have chaos in the 2013 budget. I would personally like it, and whoever was once in Katančić can't look forward to some bad things. I'd be glad to see that, in fact, what's going on in the state budget right now isn't so bad at the end of the year. But I don't see, given the structure of the expenditure that this deficit, which in six months' time is 10 billion, will practically be maintained at that level so that it doesn't rise. The more we will have exceptional problems with the revenue side, the more I have talked about it today. This late payment of value added tax, therefore all that came from the European Union was practically coming from... the world and VAT was paid on imports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now VAT will be paid with some kind of delay of a month, two or three. But that 700, 800 million will be missing at the end of the year in the state budget. So these are the problems this year but the problems that didn't happen by accident, we didn't happen to be from 1. 7 Member States of the European Union. And the consequences of the inaction in 2012 unfortunately now hit us pretty hard. And we can boast about the indifference of this, of that, administrative depravation of debts. And I'm very interested in what will be the reaction and the revision and something else in a year, two to these certain procedures. So administrative depriving the debt of 6 billion is not a reduction in liquidity. The downsizing is if you put those 6 billion into the system, so everyone in the pay chain pays each other, then it's a reduction in indifference. But if I overwrite him that he doesn't owe the state because of this reprogramme, these settlements, these pre-warrant deals, or I don't know what that's not about to increase indifference. There is simply a lack of this mass of money in the Republic of Croatia. And perhaps today was an ideal opportunity to discuss the real problems of the Republic of Croatia, to discuss the real problems of the Croatian economy. Because I repeat, colleagues and colleagues don't need to sell us any brains. We in this High House, just one more sentence, please, we're passing laws. And we know well what laws we have passed, and does one of these laws result in a more significant structural reform? There isn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46842	Now we move on to replicas, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46843	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you're right when you say that the minister has forgotten his presentations that he gave in this House in 2011 when he said that they're doing negatively to increase the VAT rate that was only 1%. How the increase in unemployment to the total social gross product negatively works. How the power increase works negatively and they increased it by 25%, 28%, gas by 35%. All of this Mr. Linic in his exhibitions placed you and the government at the time that nothing was right and then it was different and industrial production and GDP and everything was completely different. You remember well, and you know the exact details, I think I can list them but I just want to remind you what it was like back then. Now that 2% of VAT has been raised, when electricity is raised 25%, gas is 35%, when all services are raised, when taxes are the same as citizens, when all economic operators suppress that they can't breathe, when 35,000 craftsmen close their turns, when the decline of industrial production is 18%, now forgets what was said before and absolutely wrong moves. Besides what might be good, it's an attempt to create order in payments and timeliness in payments. Everything else is negative and everything else has a negative effect on the complete economic recovery process because it's absolutely gone. All indicators speak in a negative sense and all the negatives so far will be difficult to correct and who knows who will correct them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46844	Thank you very much. But speaking of data is enough that the decline in industrial production is 5.5, you don't have to raise to 18%. Comrade Shucker, here's your reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46845	If we were to return to what anyone was saying, it would not have taken us anywhere, but the basic problem that simply nothing happened more significantly in 2010, 2011, in order to be a diametrical opposite of thinking about the increase in VAT rates. However, with this increase, there have been some reductions that do not seem to have any justification in me because we had in tourism for accommodation and organised VAT rate 10%. It would be more logical that if we had raised a zero rate to bread and milk and if it were somewhere a fiscal effect would be somewhere a billion and 700, 800 million at the annual level, that we might have reduced the rate, in fact introduced an interstep to fresh meat 10%, that we left to the caterers their rate, which is because I didn't notice that the catering prices were down, das. I think it is fairer and fairer to allow every Croatian citizen to buy as much meat a week as someone who uses restaurant services would have a slightly lower price, and they wouldn't have an accident. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues, all of us, more or less here and there, we go across the border, so when you look at the prices outside, starting from the former socialist countries that are now EU members to the older members of the EU, then you will see that Croatia is not at all expensive and I see no reason why selling its natural beauty would sell more great food for some of the lower prices and humiliate yourself in such a way and simply someone who wants to buy, eat something of quality, let them choose to pay. But I repeat, it is one policy of advocacy, and from the other it is calculated that the patience of Croatian citizens has no end, but local elections have shown that this patience has come to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46846	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46847	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Shuker, you spoke in your debate about the budget deficit, so you looked back on it. We'll agree that we don't actually have that primary budget deficit. So budget revenues and budget expenditures are practically even. What produces our budget deficit is financial expenditure, and 90% of the financial expenditures are interest. So our biggest problem is precisely these interest rates stemming from the huge public debt that has practically been created in the past 20 years regardless of the government, and the budget deficit is actually the annual price of that debt. So every year we manage to reprogram these debts, regularly service interest rates, but we haven't paid back practically any kuna since we reached the principals in the last 20 years, and that's true. So we manage to service these interest rates, and this burden of huge public debt is exactly the biggest, scariest limiter of our economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46848	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46849	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Jelash, we agree here, I think today is something that is indisputable in this assembly, but we also need to see when the explosion of this public debt occurred. I told the minister today... he didn't object. In 2008, we practically had a balanced budget, the deficit was 0.8. However, in 2009, the economic crisis, your income simply dropped to 2006, 2007, and the expenditure remained, unfortunately, just as it is today and even bigger. And that's why I did when I talked in my debate today about these structural problems of the Croatian budget, we can't ignore that pensions, that they're burdening us with 17 billion tax revenues, that health is burdening us with 6-7 billion tax revenues, that's what we're going to see when we get out of health care from 1.1.2014, then you'll see how burdened it is that we simply can't ignore it. So these are facts that we can't change because I don't think anyone here will raise a hand to cut the weight of the pension funds by 1 lip because it would be crazy to see how many pensioners have pensions under 2,000 kuna. So we have this expense which, due to the legacy of all governments, we have had pension reform and then look at the incursion into the pension system first of all 200-2003, and then the government where I was minister, just today we have four kinds of pensioners. And you'll see, unfortunately, what kind of problem we're going to have with the second pillar pensioners because we didn't raise the second pillar in time. So these are our problems we can't escape from, but they're what they are. structural problems and there's no need here for political bickering. That's the facts. We can convince each other here as much as we want, but look, until you carry out structural reforms in health care, in education, you have 100 and how many, 60, 170 thousand employees and their qualifying structure and pay structure is such that their salary costs are much higher than civil servants, we can't talk about a reduction in the pay. Therefore, the interest is also the same. They are the way they are, unfortunately, because we have the kind of deficit we have, and we can't reduce it without structural reforms, and we're done. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] You don't need that big brain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46850	Replica Goran Maric, please. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46851	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Shuker, you were talking about the wrong economic policy. Obviously, the instruments of the overall economic policy did not trigger economic activity either monetary or fiscal. But when we talk about the budget and the given items, they can't be taken away by reading each position separately in this big set of papers, so I'm just going to point out that some of them aren't all numbers given. Salaries for overtime in last year 65 million kuna, promotion and information services 70 million kuna, rent and rent 552 million kuna, intellectual services 782 million kuna, and in 2011. 990 million kuna, membership fee 245 million kuna. Subsidies that could be less than 5.7 billion with the same effect that we do not encourage even some imports not to encourage production on areas that are not even produced. With the help of various 4.7 billion kunas, the aid could be significantly lower with the same effects. With 552 million kunas, 110000 modernly built squares can be built in the most perfect building. In a year we build everything necessary for the Republic of Croatia what we pay for the rent. If in the last ten years we were only for these few items that I have cited, I cannot yet arrive and the funding of 20 billion kuna would be less segregation, and at the same time we have the basics of the profit tax reduced because there are also tax-recognized expenditures that we should not recognise and thus we would come up within 10 years to 30 billion kuna in the simplest way of higher incomes and lower expenditures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46852	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46853	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, if, when the budget is done, then you should see when it comes to you that 10 million cannot simply be reduced. You're talking about when you're talking about renting that much, it seems like a lot. But when you see where these rents are, where they happen, it's not like that. But well, it's a matter of thinking and thinking. As for intellectual services, I would very much like everyone to enter every ministry and see why these intellectual services were done, come in and see why these intellectual services were executed, so you will see that this is not a waste of money, but that these are various projects. Because if we didn't pay for these intellectuals, it's also for EU funds, etc., help and a number of projects. Therefore, you need to enter the cost structure and then say it's not so alarming. Because I'm telling you from the position of someone who's been fighting with all his fellow ministers for seven years on the spending side, then it's not exactly like that. But I'm saying, that number when you look at the global be sure if one government had already missed out that this other government wouldn't have missed it because it was in a position to just at some point unsettled situations. Excessive work. You simply have certain services that you cannot function. Let's say the driver. How are you gonna get a driver if he doesn't have overtime? Not at all. You have other services like that, but I'm saying they're not the same. The problem is that this budget has a problem of 10 billion kuna at the moment. That's his problem, that's the deficit. And these little things can't be solved. These little things will be done by themselves. When structural reforms are made in certain authorities of the state administration, then the need for certain things will stop. Let's say I know that here's a colleague of Lalovac's can confirm that, as far as the law goes, the Ministry of Finance has been working all its laws alone. But you have ministries that aren't teamed up, that aren't able to make laws. And you see those laws when they come to us today, you see the laws that were made by the lawyers, and you see the laws that were done in the ministries. But if you don't have employees, you have to give someone, pay them to make you that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46854	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. A colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46855	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Assistant, Chief Auditor with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing a proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. Today, it would be immaterial to talk about the amount of each item in this budget and their purpose. Today, however, we can discuss and make comments, comment but also commend certain services that were capable and have done well what they could under the planned means. Given the situation, and we listen all the time and unfortunately predicts what we can expect in the coming period, we need to turn more and more, exploit the possibility of using European funds. By entering full membership of the Republic of Croatia, we know that we have new sources of funding, new opportunities, but I would stress the possibilities. We know that by the end of this year, we will have 655.1m euros at our disposal in the first six months, and we will also need to make a contribution to the EU budget of 211.9m euros this year in order to get and use it. For these very reasons, I paid particular attention to the items relating to this segment, and then we see assistance from international organisations, and the EU institutions and bodies are even less realised for 520 million kuna than envisaged, which means that we were not able to withdraw that amount. Furthermore, education on EU programmes, which we are very much talking about, and we expect to be able to do much more with new staff in 2012 60% of the funds, and the purpose remains unused. Furthermore, the preparation and implementation of EU projects, the item that worried me the most, again more than 60% remained unused. From the planned 10 million kunas, less than 4 million were used. So I wonder how we plan and what projects to withdraw 655.1m euros in 6 months. The state is alarming. You may not even know how many problems we are in charge of cities and municipalities and who have both needs and desires and behind us for many years of working on individual projects so that we can successfully withdraw these EU funds. Despite the role of all of us in local self-government units and can also be said by the project's representatives and project leaders in Croatian waters, the ministry has a major problem with consultants and projectors who are entrusted with these jobs of making studies, applications and designs. For example, for the construction of the Srima-Vodice-Tribunj sewer system, the application was due to be completed in August of last year. Well, then every three weeks we have some more corrections, some more. And our consultants you won't believe surprised him on July 1st and entering the European Union. And so another project will not be possible and will not be implemented from pre-accession funds but will now be financed from these new structural funds. They assure us it won't make any difference for the city and the citizens. However, there is a big difference for the Republic of Croatia. Namely, one project that was possible to implement from the IPA fund is permanently lost, will be financed from the Structural Fund. So one smaller one will be able to finance just from these funds. Is that why someone will be responsible and how many projects are late and why the Republic of Croatia is losing funds? It is precisely that more than 60% of the funds foreseen for the preparation and implementation of the EU project remain unused saying that either they are not agreed or those projects that have been agreed are not sufficiently implemented. The consultant working on our project and it is one of our sound institutes, I have information about the reason and many other problems and many other projects in Croatia have stopped precisely because of this study maker. How superficially this work is being done is the fact that geodetic affairs were performed by a Zagreb cooperative who never came to Vodice and let alone walked along the road. And it's enough to say that he translated the app into English in a way that he pressed the key on the computer, so then Vodice was translated, and the name means Vodice, so it's no longer known when it comes to water and water supply, when it comes to the population of Vodice, when it comes to waste water. Maybe that's funny to you, but that's really how it is. We have passed many laws in this House by emergency procedure, but I warn you and I ask you that this House really needs to pass in an urgent procedure a new law, a law on the preparation of EU projects, which will include with obligations and sanctions and criminal provisions for all participants in preparation. Otherwise, we will pay more membership fees than we will be able to withdraw grants. And now another segment, even though there is a crisis and there is a need for savings, is still items that need to be concerned or angry that the funds remain unused despite the planned use. In fact, individual savings can only be the reason why we will not achieve revenues in the next period, for example. Only 25% of the funds or planned 900 thousand only 250 were used to establish and implement maritime goods borders. All of us who work and come from coastal counties know what the problem is because of undefined borders or even more often because of non-injection. And what little, minimum means and I say minimal because you booked 900 thousand kuna that's not even for 900 square meters of coastal. Same example. We in Vodice currently have a problem for this reason that the state has established, i.e. confirmed the border of maritime goods, placed a waterfront waterfront in front of a hotel as a maritime good. According to the Law, we have dropped concessions, granted them to craftsmen and companies. However, the same state did not rule out the owner without saying that the state, or privatisation fund, had previously sold him that waterfront. And now we have security guards there, we have a beautiful tourist picture of conflicts and problems. And if we can get the owners out and put in the maritime goods, we can call a tender, award a concession and income to both the state and the county and the city. Of course and jobs to hire and have order. I therefore expect the Ministry of Finance to raise the question for which reasons certain items have not been realised and what are the preconditions for increasing revenue in the coming period.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46856	Now we're going to the replicas. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46857	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you have rightly warned your colleagues about the fact that one big problem can happen to us, which is that this year we feel on our own hunch that the inability of those who are currently leading us to get into a situation so that we don't withdraw all the funds available to us in cohesion and structural funds, so all 650 million kunas and pay for the 211 million euros in participation, excuse me. So that can really happen to us. And it can also come from the fact that unfortunately, the ministries dealing with programmes applied to the European Structural and Cohesion Funds that these projects sort of determine according to their priorities rather than the real values of these projects or the priorities that come from local self-government. And to actually choose these projects according to the belongings of certain parties. So, it's not unfortunately a lonely case. I wish I had more time. I'd certainly elaborate what it's all about. But I would ask that the representatives of the ministry really take care of all of Croatia and that it is not really only in those environments where their coalition has power. Another problem you have also warned about is the issue of maritime goods, it is absolutely one major resource and source of income and for all levels, from state level to county, to municipal or urban, depending on where the maritime good is. Well, in any case, the most attractive part of the coast stands untapped because of someone's unwork or because of someone's sloppy work. In any case, that resource should be put into operation. And here, a lot has already been said about how the budget has changed and how the budget is going to change this year. I'd just say one fact, and that's that the government cheated on us last year when she said it was going to be growth, economic growth... and 0.8. In the end, it turned out to be a -2% drop.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46858	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46859	Thank you very much. Well, the truth is, it's embarrassing to see 300 pages that explain exactly what item is how much money is reserved and then you're very proud to see the name of your work, your county. A little further when you look at the County Court in Sibenik for the adaptation of the building, it's got a magnificent 2616.25 kuna. I'd really like to ask you, I mean when the court's adaptation in Osijek and the recovery there is with 3 million and 750 thousand it's okay to be an item in the budget, but the item of 2616.25 kuna is I mean embarrassing. So I'm asking you to put it under some common ground so you can't see it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46860	A new replica, a respected representative of Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46861	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, above all, I absolutely agree with you that in this part of last year's budget reports, we must be very concerned about the relationship with the very exclusion of the European Union funds. However, I do have to say one positive guideline that we had a few days ago, a report on the use of these funds itself, that from some 38% as before... these funds, first of all I'm talking about the IPA Fund, the IPARD, we came to 70% of the use. So many quality shifts and measures have been made that allowed and encouraged the use of these funds and funds. Namely, if I have read correctly, Croatia has already paid its part of the tranche to the European Union fund... and it is very much up to us to.... But what I have to say, unlike you, is that we're not gonna use it, that we don't have ready projects and programs, that it's hard to get to them, and we know that. I know specifically here as mayor of Lepoglava that I haven't had the chance to read in reports for the implementation of my city's budget for 8 years, that anything for any project could have been obtained by any budget user, particularly Croatian waters or someone else, but we have really turned to the European Union funds and 13 projects that we have implemented says that we are ready and able. When I also talk about sewers, the town of Lepoglava has an absolutely ready building permit and all the projects we should have done have been waiting for three years. We could never get them, now I believe that they will come here by this government that we too who have only about 10 million kunas that we had to do everything ourselves, that someone else will help us unlike some who have and 50 million kuna budgets are much smaller cities and municipalities, and they've been getting a lot of funding these years. Just as we speak about this part of the funds, there is also EIB 2, EIB 3 which is also problematic. Here's the report from the state audit that suggested that even the EIB 2 that had already been used had to be significant in that part. You can, yes, only if you're ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46862	Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46863	Thank you very much. Well, I'm very glad that you're so skilled and capable of withdrawing funds from pre-accession funds. We have experience, too, so I think you know just as well how much time it takes to prepare the projects and when those projects that have now been completed last year have been prepared and the funds withdrawn. We who finished last September and opened the memorial park Fausto Vrančić from the IPA Fund, 3 years ago was applied, funds were approved, and only in this year did we get the funds in the last tranche. So we don't have to brag, we know very well what government started these projects, and they're just finishing now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46864	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It is up to the honourable representative Ante Babic and his 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46865	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Assistant Minister, Mr. Lalovec with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the whole day we've been discussing, and I'm the last one, so I'll just take a minute. In all units of local administration and self-government, actually, the general opportunities are alarming, and the results are catastrophic, I would say the same as at central government level. Everything that happens or unfortunately does not occur at the central level is reflected in the smallest units of local self-government. Today at this point, opportunities are very worrying. For example, from talks with colleagues from the Makarska coast, the island, the property landscape, the budget revenues of municipalities and cities at the moment are 18, 22, 30 and up to 52%, only because of the lack of income tax revenue compared to the previous periods, and this is the consequence of actually falling unemployment rates, job losses, but also interventions under the Income Tax Act. The municipalities and cities were brought to a level of necessary functioning. In fact, the question is how long will they be able to settle those basic commitments to the budget users, and thus, by one chain reaction, it actually brings them into a one-way situation. In the last 19 months alone, several laws have been passed that have seriously violated the spending side of municipalities and cities, and thus the county, not to repeat them, by fire, preschool education, and also by abolishing the municipal compensation to public institutions, which will certainly reduce the incomes of local administration and self-government units. The adoption of such a large number of regulations that are often unequal between individual resolutions creates an additional problem and disagreement at local level, and in fact a sense of legal uncertainty is created by entrepreneurs, which not only encourages investment but also leads to the escape of capital from Croatia. Instead of letting go of St. Peter's tunnel. Elijah helps the economic recovery of that end, the Imotian landscapes and beyond, and this government does not charge for the tunnel in secret, incognito releases traffic through the tunnel by charging the tunnel and making it even more difficult for that economic agony of the region, regardless of the written instructions sent to the resolution ministry for which it did not correspond at all. For example, if the access road from Split to Dupolj had been charged, it would have been difficult to charge more than 3 billion kunas in Dupolj for such a business zone. It means don't have a vision, it means to actually create an anti-entrepreneurship climate. We actually say that a man has to be really crazy about making cash believe. All this is due to the work of this government, and that is why it reflects on the lowest units in the midst of the economically devastation, and of course it affects all citizens. I remember that our club discussed the 2013 draft budget, and as I recall Mr Shuker, that the entire economic policy of this government actually shrugged down to just an increase in taxes. That's what I've been talking about before, so I'm going to repeat dividend tax, the general VAT rate by two percentage points from 23 to 25%, which, on that basis alone, raises the tax burden on citizens by almost 9%. We've been listening all day, and it doesn't really matter what we've been talking about, but that's what our citizens feel. Despite all this, it has been warned that these tax policy measures will further burden the economy and the highest layers of Croatian population, and that this will have a negative impact on both the investment climate and the population standard. Unfortunately, these predictions have come true, and this government continues to insist on the wrong direction of its economic policy. In the absence of ideas and wills to implement structural reforms of the public sector which are essential to affect the reduction or at least mitigate the pressure on the expenditure side of the budget, which would make the public sector, i.e. public service, more efficient, and Croatia as a whole is still focusing on the economic policy of this government's tax. You remember that this government, even before the deadline, abolished a zero VAT rate on basic life supplies, and reduced the VAT rate to 5% on sports vessels, for entertainment, abolished taxes on pearls, precious stones, jewelry and clothing and fur and newspaper shoes. What kind of message did she send to the citizens? Also, let us not forget that they spent half a year talking and negotiating real estate tax, although both the professional and the general public warned them about the harmfulness of such tax and the creation of an anti-enterprise climate. They wonder why there are no investors, and it spreads such a negative climate for both domestic and foreign investors, not realizing that it is not the laws and tax press, but the acceptance of capital that is the only profit that this government detests and shows that anyone who has a profit is composing to it. Even the decline in GDP, the large number of unemployed, and all negative macroeconomic indicators were not enough to warn this government to change the direction of its economic policy. I wonder how much longer it takes for this government to figure it out? I hope not long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46866	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we have 7 replicas in turn. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46867	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, you mentioned a tunnel or so to say, a payment for the passage through the St. Elijah. This can be put in context of this story about cashing, not monetization, but the cashing of Croatian highways. And when you look at those highways, you wouldn't be like this for sure. It's just that people wouldn't have anything to come by. Also, if these highways were operated on an economic account, would they be able to finance their construction? But once a total state financial complex is then part of the tourist revenues should finance the repayment of credit for those highways. Why does this tunnel of St. Elijah does not look in exactly the same way as a Zagreb bypass or as a river bypass. So, the access road to the highway, because the Split highway – Vrgorac tomorrow's board for the Macarian coast doesn't make any sense if that tunnel is not built. Thus, the tunnel is not a separate infrastructure project, but the highway route was determined right here from the predisposition to build a tunnel where tourists will be able to descend to the coast of Makarska. On the other hand, Imotska krajina completes that Dalmatian Zagora, which has been systematically destroyed and practically expelled and economically evicted for years, is given the opportunity to become economically interesting and bring it back to life tomorrow. So that tunnel should be seen as a tunnel of life for each other. And when, colleague Cain mentioned today the Uck tunnel that the Istrians are paying... Yes, only every year the state gives up over 200 million VAT to the concessionary Bina Istria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also for the passage through Učka tunnel you don't pay VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46868	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46869	Well, Mr. Shucker, you said well, in fact, the Makarska coast, I think it's the only area in the Republic of Croatia that pays for the entrance to the freeway. I don't think I'm wrong about that, but what you said was about Uck's tunnel. It's true, because it's a concessionary. No one would mind charging the tunnel for a better economic situation, and this time it could have been resolved differently if Minister Hajdash-Doncic had heard more about it. And I don't think there'd actually be any problem here. But no matter what, I'm glad the tunnel opened. And I said even though you charge the tunnel but he's actually a lighthouse and safe, and certainly one trigger, one... economic development of the Imot region and beyond. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46870	New replica and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46871	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Grandma's as well as the famous tunnel of St. Elijah began to build the Mediterranean Union if I was not wrong for 2000 and some years, and on August 23, 2008, the contract was terminated because they were unable to bring the tunnel into operation, or to build it, to finance it. The state, or Croatian roads, paid 8 million kuna for all project documentation, completed the tunnel that is now open. Otherwise, it was the former government's plan to finish it in 2010. And it has never been mentioned that there will be no charge as far as I know. And in that basic plan of a private investor, it was going to be a tunnel charge. However, there was only a debate on whether and how many vehicles needed to pass through the tunnel was that guarantee of the lower limit of payability where the state would have to additionally pay at the expense of a private investor, or concessionaire, because it had the right to build. Therefore, all these discussions about why they are charged or not charged, if something is invested. On the other hand, you well know that it is not true that only the inhabitants of the Makarska coast have access to the highway through the tunnel and that they have to pay for it but you have a normal road in which it has been invested via Dubac to Šenonovac on the highway on which they can connect quite legally and gratis a little more kilometers but it is absolutely not questionable or has been questionable so far. When you're talking about profit that this government is against entrepreneurs and profits and tell me why your government didn't introduce a law on encouraging investment and improving the environment where it freed them... For an investment profit? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46872	Replica's reply, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46873	My colleague Gjurkovic, I know well that you know this area and I know about this contract that was terminated in 2008, after which the Republic of Croatia county took over, and what is the issue? The tunnel is for Croatian citizens. Well, he's also built to bring that end back to life. Well, you have no idea how devastated that neighborhood is. For which reason and why it is devastated do not and do not want to talk about it in this Croatian House. If I started, I don't know when I'd be done. And you know very well why this was happening. I'll tell you. In 93, when I returned from Switzerland, the first time was with an administrative centre towards Imotska paved road. First time. Why hasn't it been done before? That's not what I'm talking about. And I don't think you're right when you say why they'd be driving through a tunnel on the highway 10 kilometers, we should be circulating 20, 30 or 50. For what? I don't think that's fair. And I said if the economic situation is better why don't you let the tunnel charge. But you must also know that all the arrangements we had with Minister Hajdash-Doncic did not honor them. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46874	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46875	A respected colleague cannot resist reacting equally to this tunnel. We Istrians look in wonder and listen to you with these comments about the tunnel of St. Elijah and the tunnel. Do you know how far through the Ucka tunnel is? 28 kunas in two directions double. You know where the bypass is? Through Ljubljana. That tunnel was built by self-delivery long ago and today it still pays for such high tunnels. You're complaining there was no ceremony. What took three lambs to turn and we'd be happy and invite someone to commit the tunnel so I guess it'd be better. So it took 200, 300 thousand kuna for the opening ceremony, would you be more pleased with the payment of the tunnel? Let's face it, let's not rub people's eyes in some kind of floscule. How do you think this tunnel that is certainly welcome should be financed and will really contribute to the development of what you say is a devastationed, devastationed part of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46876	Replica's reply, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46877	My colleagues Vrbat should not mix pears and apples you know that Učka tunnel is under the concession of Bina Istria, this is not and this is what I was talking about. And as for the celebration, you said the opening of the roasting of lambs, the oxes you may have thought, so I don't see anything wrong with it. You know about this Croatian regiment, in that area, it's a historic event. And that's what generations dreamed of, they lived for and with that tunnel. And I don't see anything wrong with that. And no one said that the state should pay for it, the Ministry or any other, however, people would probably organize themselves as this time they would themselves and they could bless it if they needed that tunnel. Why not? That's not what I see as a questionable thing. And when you respect me for something I don't know about, there was a pitching about FIMI Media and stuff. Listen, don't let me mention the hotel in Bohinj, it's not right, don't let me mention the building in Nazor and not paying taxes to the Republic of Croatia. Until today, we haven't had the answer to that and any other things. I wouldn't want to talk about it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46878	New replica and respected representative Frano Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46879	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I would refer to my colleagues' exposure. He said the budget has indeed been reduced for various reasons, so the government has introduced its new laws, as well as that the units of local self-government are overloaded. Of course, it is visible at every step since we also come here people sitting in the Parliament know and we are witnessing that indeed local self-government units of this tax repression have a great burden. On the other hand, we thought that in any way we would achieve income by tax burden. It turned out to be extremely bad, and above all it proved to be bad because it was the economy that was burdened with all that was not burdened until two years ago and proved to be very bad. Not to say that this government is carrying out tax burdens and putting on the shoulders units of local self-government variously with its own acts, so among other things, here's the latest so we have "Help in the House", so a program that has been dating for a long time. It's also down 15% this year to the back of the local self-government unit. When we talk about the KEFŠ economy here's Minister Linic says 200 million are down and the wood industry will pay for it again, a branch that has indeed been burdened so far. Here is another tax policy that affects the development of wood industry especially in Slavonia, not to mention the total revenues of hospitals where they reduced by 4% and brought hospitals into collapse, so in the whole Republic of Croatia and, among other things, those hospitals that worked positively. And so a series, a series of laws at the expense of the economy above all, and respected friends are 19 months behind us. and no sign of economic growth or voice, or just a fall. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46880	Replica's reply, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46881	The truth is, I was also talking about it if you followed closely that actually the budgets of the units of municipalities and cities, units of local self-government at least in the area from which I come are reduced from 18 to 52% and the reason is actually this Law on income tax, i.e. the lack of income from that tax. It's not just what you've been saying about fire, preschool education, but local administrations, self-government in this particular area, they're struggling with a lot of other things and with the transportation of students, you're talking about "Help in the House", then emergency medical care, the transportation of students, students because they're a lot of dislocated places given the administrative centres and those schools. And that's the reason I'm talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46882	A new replica and respected representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46883	I thank you, Mr. President. So I'm going to pick up where my colleague Lucic stopped about how you yourself talked about the difficult state of the budgets of the local self-government units talking about his space. Comrade Granny, if the situation stays the way it is, it'll be fine, but it won't stay that way. Because it means practically every other amendment to the law, and as far as the local self-government unit is concerned, it brings a new burden to the back of the local self-government units, and these last 15 days we've had two such laws that will burden the local self-government units with a lot of budgets. It's the Waste Act and the law you mentioned now in preschool. So this is all going towards an even more difficult state in the budgets of local self-government units, and I think it can be brought into context almost 70 years ago when the population was systematically evicted from that space so that it could pull the parallel with that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46884	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46885	A colleague of the Box, in a conversation with the minister yesterday in passing a law, said that if municipalities and cities cannot pay for preschool education they should be abolished. And I said if he knew actually and knew Croatia and its specifics that it would be the last thing he had to say. I'm afraid the municipalities and cities weren't actually brought to a level of necessary functioning. If that happens, then there will be really big problems not only for these municipalities and cities but also for the central government who will surely have to allocate funds to help these municipalities, i.e. to avoid bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46886	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46887	Thank you. Dear colleague Babic in the tunnel of St. Elijah invested 530 million kuna. So here I call on the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Ministry of Transport to invest in my county or my municipality in the reconstruction of local roads 530 million kuna and that the devastated Croatian regiment living in my county will be very happy to participate with 20 kuna toll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46888	Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46889	Dear colleague, Project St. Ilija is not working for a year but several years and it is certainly one capital project, one capital investment in the Republic of Croatia and it is certainly reasonable if you know that from Brela to... in one 50 km move you want, you need and you need to improve and extend the tourist season and that tunnel will surely bring income to the Republic of Croatia, there is no doubt about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And at the end of the line he is the link of the entire coast of Makarska, and also parts of the island, colleagues, and Hvar and Brač on the highway. And I don't see what's wrong with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46890	New replica and respected representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Babic understand this beautiful story of yours, everything is free, and surely that each of your citizens will say our Ante is good, he is fighting for us. Unfortunately, this tunnel that is of great importance to your end and not just for your end, but for the complete tourist offer for that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the whole part of the East, but I think it's abnormal to ask for it to be free. What I would particularly disagree with is your debate where you condemn and evaluate something bad that this government has opened a public debate on real estate tax. Has that tax been passed? He wasn't brought in. So, one discussion that's being discussed, and when we get that tax, then we'll talk about it. You're saying that your end is lagging behind. I know him well, the entire Imotian province, Sinjska krajina, and everything else because I've come many times, and I'll ask you if you can tell me what the role of local self-government and administration means county and local self-government units, who was in power and what hasn't been better done for 23 years? And yet another question, you answered your colleague, Vrbat, on the matter of concessions for Bina-Istra, do you know who gave the concession, which government and under what conditions?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46892	Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46893	If it hadn't been for that concession, Istra wouldn't have had a freeway, and as far as I'm concerned, I don't know when you were in the Imot area, I didn't say it was so lagging behind, I said it was economically abandoned. You mentioned what she was doing here and who was in power in those units of local self-government, fortunately HDZ, from border to Split, and also in the county. It's not true that it didn't work out, it's hundreds and hundreds of waternets built, phones, roads, highways. But you should have known by '91. years that we had none of that unlike the other ends of the Republic of Croatia and it's known why we didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46894	Without throwing away, please here, we're keeping a record, not just for ourselves. Don't be selfish advocates. Sign up, press the microphone and we'll record everything and leave it for history. Thank you very much. Final presentation of respected Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46895	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. As of this morning, there has been a debate on the implementation of the 2012 budget, and I think it has been quite constructive on both sides and positions and opposition, and I thank you for letting us say the detected, or detected main backbones or structural problems of the budget. When you start with the largest items, what is actually a respected colleague Shucker well noticed are the two largest items pension system of 33.1 billion kunas, health system 20 billion kunas and salaries in public administration 22 billion kunas, add that interest of 10, 11 billion kuna, and we are already somewhere here what Mr. Shuker was saying 80, 90% budgeting. And without genuine structural reforms in each of these areas, fiscal stability of the budget, i.e. public finances, will be difficult to maintain in the long term. We can say briefly that in certain areas you have started these structural reforms and I have to be honest that when and when you move in it there is a lot of resistance and even you have resistance within the system itself. We are when we started on a project of centralised salary accounting which I must praise means introduced for, the initial this base during the former government, the employee register that we are now continuing was a very strong resistance among the ministries actually to enter into one such system. I think here you are today, and since this month, you're in the central salary account that's been accounted for by FINA and we think she's been a little late but not from the financial but technical services that should have been better prepared, but it's also good to know that it was late at the Ministry of Finance, and I think for the first time in history I think for a month, a month and a half that she's been late in this part of the pay. But the introduction into that system in that direction where we said that the so far has entered about 20 thousand employees now followed by health care, 60 thousand health workers where they have entered accounts inside, but they have not updated their own data and where we will in one way try not to tell the Financial Agency that in such a way is calculating wages in a more transparent way, the way you will say all of these software that you have calculated that we have not known more than 150 different software that have been through certain ministries able to cancel them and that software will be in FINA and thus will be much simpler and control pay. And in addition to that, let me briefly tell you when I was recently at a regional meeting with finance ministers in the region and were the finance ministers of neighbouring countries and Montenegro and Serbia and BiH when we told them that we were introducing a centralised system of salaries then they asked me who was doing this to you. When we told FINA it was them, and what FINA then they came back that it was SDK and then they told her what we did we turned it off and now we can't go and we think it's good, like how you can do it, we'd be very happy to apply it. So they are also very interested in this product, if FINA will be able to use it in the future and show that we have our state institutions that can have a good product and that can be leaders in the region by that. So then they couldn't answer the press questions of their journalists, the ministers why we cut it off, and they have it now, you see how they can bring order into the bar system of pay, and we can't do it anymore who's going to do it for us. So I'm not standing for that part that if it's something state that's wrong, it's good and it can be done just have a clear vision and must have continuity. And that's why I keep mentioning here you will always hear from me the continuity and ex-government that established that register and this authority that continued and upgraded that system. I think that's correct. If we want to make some structural reform, it can't be just for one government, but it has to be the continuity of more governments. So if they move and move towards structural reforms in health, each of the next governments will have to continue this continuity of reforms in health and certainly also in the pension system. Is if we see that these are productive costs we cannot speak especially in the health care system because it is a productive cost, it is a cost that gives public service and service to our citizens to have safety, protection and care and it is a productive cost. But what are the non-productive costs? The non-productive costs are our interest and in this part we need to see how we have more productive costs that will give us more... just as in this example was the case of FINA where certain funds have been invested but there will be a productive cost and we think that some small kind of structural reform is going to save us all the software that we're going to put aside now and FINA will be able to earn and tomorrow sell that software in the region. It was also for fiscalization when we were asked, so how is it with us, the fiscalization failed and the fiscalisation in Croatia succeeded. It was precisely because we used the Croatian product and Croatian companies were doing this product and all of our intellectual structures that worked on that product when I was leaving and our company APIS I was amazed at what young experts we have who managed to upgrade such software very quickly and be competitive, efficient and fast. And they did, what did they do? They worked on importing, importing cash registers and cash registers from I don't know Bulgaria I don't know which countries. And in that concept, they failed the process, and they would have told me just like you did. So we can look at these two examples and the fiscalization and the central wage calculation to show that we also have in the state administration as little pay as they have so that they can make good projects, productive and when it comes to the state that they can make a real step. But it has to be continuity. We are now entering the EU always I like to say, we have entered the Champions League and I have to be honest as little as it is difficult to find state finances and in Europe let's say don't flower roses with some little preciousness when I was at that meeting with them I see one envy as we are ahead of them in that part but I think because we had a consensus and just as a matter of joining the EU we have all had a common consensus and therefore we have succeeded and they have not said they have much to do yet. And if we have a common consensus in health reform, and that's why we like to hear everything in any way, we need to be careful not to make such a reform without doing any damage to the system so that it doesn't bring down the amount of service without financially representing some kind of dubiosis. And that's where I really have to not say as surgically done in the right way not to damage the system, and on the other hand to show certain effects. And here we are always open and there are essentially structural issues of the budget of public finances, those are structural issues. We are now entering the European semester and we will most likely enter an execsive deficit procedure, an excessive deficit procedure. However, even when we receive recommendations from the European Commission, and that is why it is important when we perform in the European Commission, whether we are executives on these Councils of Finance Ministers or our colleagues elected to the EU, that we must have common views on how to defend ourselves against our older brother and try to fight why we have entered the EU and that we find our own economic interest here. And that's why it's important for us to get into that Champions League together and set ourselves up to defend that common interest in that part. But I'm telling you these are all structural joint reforms that I think if and today there was no big difference between looking at structural problems that only in such a single continuity will we succeed in making strong structural reforms in public finances where when we have a consensus then and these changes but there must be a clear vision and... the economic effect of each of these reforms, the time period or too long is a recession, it takes too long to do so is the problem. that it lasted a year or two but too long and any further cuts in these structural reforms of citizens are even stronger if it takes too long. So here I thank you for your discussion and all of your remarks that I have listened carefully to are welcome and I think that only in such a way that when we have a common consensus and some continuity in these reforms will we be able to see that in five years as a state as a society we will be able to do so and then finally the benefits should be and feel Croatian citizens. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46896	And I'm your dear Deputy Minister. However, four replicas have been reported. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46897	Dear Mr. Lalovac, that's unlike Mr. Linic, you're very lucky to know how to admire and you can be thrilled, which is good, you've brought some optimism into this debate, because when we listen to Mr. Linic, I don't know if we should come to work anymore tomorrow. You said one sentence that I heard right away, and I recognized it wasn't from your ministers' vocabulary. You said it wasn't true that if something was state that wasn't right. Well, you'll get a fine, everything that's state, nothing's right, everything needs to be sold out, your ministers say. Can't run the state, put it all in the hands of privates, nothing Croatia can have. It's fine. She's selling her mind. And you said that they did, they got low wages and they're doing good work. Fantastic. Now imagine that they still have roads so they can collect tolls, so that they can still, that they have, that they have tools for some who are, that they have a Croatian bank, that someone invests money in Croatia. You want... Croatian Post Office, Croatian Insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're giving a fat goose under some skinny chicken. And you cut the branches we sit on. Yeah, the state can be good and the state is good. Croatia will crucify. Remember when HDZ's government thought of so-called. Concesion of the road, that's when the first Deputy Prime Minister said what you're doing, that's the accident you're doing. With the future government, you're going to be an asset that can start the economy. Well, I don't know how you change your mind and nobody's embarrassed. Today I'm thinking one, tomorrow I'm talking three. What you said, I support it, and it's an honor. However, you are the deputy and will be decided unfortunately by the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46898	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46899	Dear Mr. Lalovec, you've told young people with low wages to do very good projects unless I'm wrong. Well, you see, it's not only paying motive for work but also the atmosphere, relationship and respect either in the company or in the institution. And today, Minister Linic tells this Parliament that he is leaving quality people. Well, here's the time to wonder why.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46900	New replica and respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46901	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, it seems to me that you have got something wrong about Croatia's entry into the European Union. Namely, no big brother sits there, there are 28 equal members. Therefore, there will be no consensus there that existed and it is good that it existed when we approached the European Union, when we were to overcome all obstacles, all the challenges that were set before us. At this point, however, we are talking about some consensus that should be defended by an alleged excessive deficit, it will have no success. Because there are rules there that we must follow today. And no big brother's gonna make us there. We're just as equal there as everyone else. And we also have to follow rules that apply to everyone else. Therefore, those penalties, the penalties we receive, we will receive them for our, or your incompetence, which you now run the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Don't expect a consensus in that sense. Of course, all those strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia will always have a consensus regarding the Croatian Democratic Community.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46902	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46903	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Lalovec, you said we were the first in the region to lead the fiscalization and what else I know is a process, we're not. I was in Banja Luka three to four years ago, in Banja Luka a fiscalization was introduced from 0 to 100. But you know why it was possible to enter the market, I was at the market, he went from A to Z, an orderly market that allowed for fiscalization to be introduced. Croatia has arranged for the military, police, institutions, highways and what remains in the country now rather than regulating the administrative state for the better from day to day. It's sad that one set doesn't inherit that by... from the previous one than always someone yells at someone, we should inherit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's our job, too. There was no problem with fiscalization, there was a problem with the conditions on which fiscalization could be introduced. But you know what the problem with this government is, Mr. Lalovec? Everyone knew they were negative economic trends. A year and a half ago, not a year and a half, but two years ago, this... And you two have been in power for two years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, you didn't have the courage to make the right moves, I'd almost say cuts, let's use it in social spending in the sense that I told my colleague Jelash a few minutes ago in health care. So you didn't cut the consumption public, you didn't have the courage to cut the right cuts. And even more tragically, you haven't made a few or one move that would turn negative trends in the economy. But it's not that, it's mildly said that I'm saving now, negative trends. The disaster in the economy that goes down was supposed to pull something, something, some decisions that would turn the arrow up. It's not withdrawn, and now we're where we are, the financial bankruptcy of the state. We can sell highways, Linic will go another 10 billion to ZET and what are we going to do next year? It is necessary to reverse economic progress in a way that needs to be inauguration of a new policy. Which is it, you're the ones who need it today... Which is it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u46904	Thank you very much, thank you very much. I thought of something, so I'll put it in public. In the last system, we theoretically had that the state would die and it was growing stronger. Now we're always pushing for a state, I'm strengthening, and it's getting weaker. I don't know where we are. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is what we've exhausted the list of people who have been reported to debate on this subject. Therefore, on the proposal for the Annual Report and on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and the Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2012, the 2012 Annual Report on the Implementation of the State Budget will vote when the conditions for this are met. It'll probably be Monday. Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2012. I need a stronger microphone. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Score. I find that most of the votes are 85 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 5 abstentions, the Annual Report on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting the fiscal responsibility law to the vote of the 2012 Annual Report on the application of fiscal rules. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 85 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 8 abstentions, the Annual Report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2012. In accordance with Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I shall put the budget law to the vote 1. Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2012. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 85 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 9 abstentions have been decided on giving consent to the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2012. Secondly, I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2012 Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund's financial plan. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the majority of votes of 85 votes in favour and 40 votes against the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2012 Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. I am voting on the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2012. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes are 85 votes in favour, 40 votes against the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2012. Fourth. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the provision of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2012. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? There is. I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 4 abstentions, a decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Deposit Insurance Agency's 2012 financial plan. Fifth, I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Agency for the Management of State Property for 2012. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. Score. I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour, 37 against and 3 abstentions, have been decided to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Agency's 2012 National Property Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47138	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Mss of Parliament MPs and the gentlemen of Parliament's representatives. Regulation 1234 of 2008 provides for the examination procedure to amend the conditions of authorisation for placing veterinary medicinal products on the market. Changes are classified in different categories, depending on their impact on the quality, safety and efficacy of the VMP, thereby affecting animal health, i.e. veterinary public health as a minor change of type A1, minor type 1B change, major type 2 change. Depending on the change category, a different test procedure for the amendments to the conditions for the approvals in question has also been prescribed. Following the authorisation of placing the VMP on the market, it is necessary to monitor the latest scientific and technical progress in the process of production and verification of the quality of the VMP and to introduce all necessary changes to ensure the production and quality of these products according to the accepted scientific procedures. The law lays down the Ministry of Agriculture as the competent authority for the implementation, the procedure of the competent authority in the event of an amendment to the conditions of approval for the placing on the market and inspection, the infringement provisions in the case of proceedings against the prescribed provisions, which can only be prescribed by law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law does not implement the provisions on a centralised procedure as the European Medicines Agency is responsible for the procedure. The law implements the provisions of Regulation 1234 of 2008 where the competent authority is the relevant authority or the reference body for the procedure of amending the conditions of approval for the placing on the market of the VMP in a decentralised procedure or mutual recognition procedure and in the event of an amendment to the authorisation in the national procedure. On the basis of a decentralised procedure or mutual recognition procedure, the same may be placed on the market in the territory of more than one Member State of the European Union at the same time. The Republic of Croatia has become part of the single internal market of the European Union and this Regulation, i.e. the law, allows business-based authorisation holders in the Republic of Croatia to submit requests and notices of amendments to the conditions of approval to the competent authority of the Republic of Croatia or to other competent authorities of the Member States. The natural or legal persons established in the Member States shall be allowed to submit requests and notices to the competent authority of the Republic of Croatia concerning amendments to the conditions of approval for the VMP. This law prevents administrative burdens for authorisation holders and the repetition of the same transactions by the competent authorities of the Member States. The implementation of the law does not require funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47139	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the board, the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For discussion we will go to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected representative Đurdjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47140	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Reputed deputy minister with associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must say that this is one of the important laws, but it is also important that we become a member of the European Union and that this Final Proposal for a law implementing Commission Regulation No. concerning the examination of the conditions of authorisation for the placing on the market of veterinary medicinal products. What are veterinary medicinal products or VMPs? According to the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products, "National Journal" 84/08, veterinary medicinal product or VMP is any substance or mixture of substances that has the property of treatment or prevention of animal diseases or any substance or mixture of substances that can be used in animals for the purpose of restoring, correcting or adapting physiological functions to pharmacological, immunological or metabolic effects or setting a medical diagnosis and a means to reduce micro-organisms for use in veterinary medicine. This 2008 law also applies to industrially produced premixes for the production of medicinal food for animals, but also to active substances used for the production of anabolic, anti-infectious, anti-parasitious, anti-inflammatory, hormonal and psychotropic properties. Every VMP must have a marketing authorisation, i.e. it must comply with the requirements laid down in this 2008 law but of course here is this law that is before us. The VMP which has the approval guarantees a safe and effective application which confirms the manufacturer's documentation. The VMP documentation must cover research, production, quality control, safety and efficiency. According to the World Health Organization definition, there are counterfeit medicines that are like original and generic medicines that are deliberately falsely marked, false identity and origin. Data on counterfeit drugs are slow and difficult to reach the competent authorities, and it is understandable that these occurrences are relatively rarely officially registered. The most frequently reported side effects resulting from the use of a counterfeit drug are, however, more and more such medicines have been revealed in the European and global markets in recent years. According to a health organization report, about 10% of medicines on the market are assumed to be falsified. Forged drugs are sometimes cheaper than legally placed on the market because they are not produced or controlled in accordance with the rules, but to be more convincing for counterfeiters often have an equal or slightly lower price for such medicinal products than legally manufactured medicinal products. Although the most counterfeiting medicinal products have been used in haumanic medicine in recent years, the number of counterfeit veterinary medicinal products has increased. Cases of counterfeit veterinary medicinal products have also been reported in Europe, the United States, Canada, China and other Asian and African countries. By joining the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia has become part of the EU's single internal market, and this Regulation 1234/2008, i.e. this law allows business-based holders in the Republic of Croatia to submit requests and notices of amendments to the conditions of approval for placing on the market, the relevant authorities or the relevant body of the EU reference Member State as the relevant body or the relevant body of the reference Member State in a decentralised procedure or mutual recognition procedure. In addition, natural or legal persons established in the EU Member State shall be allowed to submit to the competent authority a request and notice of amendments to the conditions of approval for placing on the market a VMP where it is the relevant body, or the relevant body of the reference Member State. This law and this Regulation 1234/2008 also prescribes a national procedure for amending the conditions of approval for placing on the market of a competent authority, as we see in Article 3. Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008 shall apply directly from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and therefore shall not repeat the normative content of the Regulation. This Regulation lays down the examination procedure to amend the conditions of approval for the placing on the market of VMPs approved by a centralised procedure for granting EU marketing authorisation, a decentralised procedure for issuing a marketing authorisation for VMP in the EU, a process of mutual recognition for the granting of a marketing authorisation for VMP in the EU and a national procedure. The adoption of this law is subject to the need to implement Commission Regulation No 1234/2008 amending the conditions of authorisation for placing veterinary medicinal products on the market and Commission Regulation of 3 August 2012 amending Regulation 1234/2008 amending the conditions of marketing authorisation for medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products in the field of the Republic of Croatia which regulates the veterinary medicinal products. Therefore, the provisions laid down in this law for the implementation of Regulation 1234/2008 and the provisions on the competent authority of the Ministry of Agriculture are laid down by the competent authority in the event of an amendment to the conditions of authorisation for the placing on the market of veterinary medicinal products which have certain particularities in relation to the general administrative procedure, the costs of the procedure, inspection and infringements in the case of a case against a regulation which can only be prescribed by law. For all of this, and for the safety of food, health and people, of course we will support this bill at the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47141	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Assembly and respected representatives Ivica Mandić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47142	Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Agriculture with his associates. Here I will say in the beginning that surely the Croatian People's Party will support this law, which is of great importance for the safety and health of both humans and animals. This is about the implementation of European Commission Regulation 1234 of 2008 concerning the examination of the conditions of authorisation for the placing on the market of veterinary medicinal products. Here I would say that this regulation was created in the '82 Directives, the '83 Directive. of the European Parliament and of the Council as Regulation (EC) No 726 of 2004 adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on 31.3.2004. Commission Regulation EC 1234 of 2008 provides for a simpler and clearer, more flexible legal framework, while guaranteeing the same level of public health and animal health. Under this legislation, the Republic of Croatia is in line with EU legislation. This law in the original version had 22 articles, but today we received an amendment from the Government that talks about 23 articles, meaning a law that is not of great importance but of great importance. This law provides that veterinary medicinal products may be placed on the market in a centralised procedure that goes through the European Medicines Agency and in a decentralised procedure that goes through the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition, this law lays down the jurisdiction of the competent authority, that is, the Ministry of Agriculture and the inspection as costs of the procedure and the infringement provision. Administrative inspection shall be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture of Administrative Control and veterinary inspectors shall be carried out under the authority of certain veterinary regulations and other civil servants who have the power of the Minister. What is also good is that this law provides that the smaller changes in 1A have exactly how the competent authority, the relevant body, means the ministry in which time gives its consent. For minor changes, the time limit shall be 30 days and consent shall be given or no consent, and the approval shall be granted within 6 months. It is good that this law is precisely clear and that it gives precise timing. Also, in the case of minor amendments 1B after 30 days if the request does not have an answer it is considered that the law is also accepted. 6 months are granted for the placing of this veterinary medicinal product on the market. What is also important is that this law does not contain provisions on the procedure for amending the conditions of authorisation for placing veterinary medicinal products on the market in a centralised procedure. This is given by the European Medicines Agency. It shall be given in accordance with the procedure of the European Community 1234/2008. Whereas this procedure is the responsibility of the European Medicines Agency. What this law also adopts, adopts and violates, and we believe that this legislation will comply with EU legislation and that this law will take effect with the entry into force of Croatia into the EU of 1234, and the law that is proposed today will be the first day after its publication in the National Journal. The HNS Club will support this law that is directly related to human safety and food, as well as the safety of veterinary medicinal products in human and animal use.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47143	Thank you very much. This is the debate on the text of the P.Z.E. law. No. 435th done. We'll vote when we get the conditions on this final bill. Final proposal for a law implementing Commission Regulation No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 435. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments within the business period and became an integral part of the final proposal. We won't discuss them. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, with 108 votes, a law implementing the Commission Regulation of the European Community has been adopted, PZE No. 435, in the text proposed by the government. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47146	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable lady of the parliamentary representative and the gentlemen of the assembly. By adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia shall fulfil its obligation as signatories to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea which is the basis for the adoption of the Agreement in question. It is intended to adopt the principle of conservation and management of certain fish settlements in the areas of the sea to which the agreement relates. At the same time, the obligation to join the EU is met because, when the legislation on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Agreement is laid down, the declarations made by the EU following the ratification of the agreement will also apply to the Republic of Croatia following the accession of the EU to the Republic of Croatia. That agreement on the application of the provisions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea was adopted in New York at the UN Conference on fish settlements located in several different belts and settlements of highly migratory species held on 4 August 1995. The agreement was opened for signing at the UN headquarters between 4 December 1995 and 4 December 1996, and entered into force 30 days after laying down the 30th ratification or accession document, which was laid down by Malta on 11 November 2001. The agreement has ratified 80 members so far. This law confirms the agreement in order to make its provisions in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and that the EU is also a member of the Agreement's provisions are also part of the legal order of the EU which is directly applicable to the management of the fisheries resources of the Member States. This law, in addition to the new Maritime Fisheries Act, which has been adopted by EU regulations at national level and provides for the competence and national mechanisms for their implementation within the framework of the EU's common fisheries policy to implement that policy. EU regulations regulate all fishing segments and thus the management of living resources of the sea. Member States are signatories to the agreement and have delegated to the European Commission the powers relating to the adoption of measures necessary for the management of fisheries resources which are subject to the agreement. By joining the agreement, the Republic of Croatia shall join a group of 80 UN members of 165 signatories of the Convention on the Law of the Sea which have already adopted the Agreement, thereby accepting the resolution of the issue of conservation and management of certain fish... by means of a certain agreement. In view of the confirmation of the confirmation of this agreement, which as a state and formally express the willingness to take responsibility for the already signed international contract i.e. The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, as well as the fact that amendments or additions to the international Treaty cannot be made at this stage, must be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47147	Thank you, too. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take part in the reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the turn of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Branko Kuti.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47148	I thank you, Mr. President. Madam deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, fishing in Croatia still plays an important social and economic role in efficient and sustainable management and management of sea and coastal areas is still of little importance. The fundamental principle of the development of Croatian fisheries is its sustainability which should be based on interdependence between its three pillars, economic development, social justice of environmental protection and improved governance. The development cannot be sustainable unless unsustainable procedures affecting the biodiversity of the sea are discontinued and assistance for the restoration of this national good is provided. Excessive exploitation of the living marine resources of the Adriatic Sea due to the inability to apply measures of planning, restrictive and control of fishing takes place to the greatest extent in the part of the Adriatic Sea, which is located in the open sea regime. Evaluating that the continuation of such practice endangers sustainable management of fish wealth and its sustainable exploitation and damages the interests of the Republic of Croatia and all other Adriatic states and favours illegal unregulated and unreported fishing of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia on 3 October 2003, the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. The application of the legal regime of the protected eco-fishing band of the Republic of Croatia after several delays from 1 January 2008 will also apply to non-EU countries. This agreement will apply according to the Mutatis Mutandis model means that you accept one law or accept it once everything that needs to be amended is changed. By extending jurisdiction, Croatia has a sovereign right to a total of 56 thousand 67km of square sea space. Sustainable development of Croatian fisheries is a goal aimed at meeting the needs of current generations without jeopardising future generations' potential to meet their own needs. Protecting marine biodiversity and marine resources is an important national but international and European commitment. As a result of the fact that there is still no adequate fishing infrastructure in Croatia and taking into account the current state of the fishing fleet, the fish market and the existing problems of this bill will achieve a problem of polluting coastal areas and seas affected by construction or erosion while fish resources are being povertyed, a self-sustainable Croatian fishing industry whose production will meet Croatia's needs as well as real foreign demand will be maintained, respecting market and environmental legality, defining criteria for defining and managing fishing infrastructure in line with the EU acquis. With this bill, Croatia fulfils the obligation under the EU accession process and works to adapt its own legislation towards the acquis. The aim is to protect and manage natural resources for economic and social development and more effectively integrate international rules adapted to local conditions and conditions of this eco-regional. Here are two questions at the end, since yesterday we asked Mrs. Deputys about the name of the fishing village, for me a fishing village I don't know about lakes, potassium etc. I'm afraid that's not the best term. I think it would be more appropriate for a fish habitat. And second question, it seems to me that the law was to be passed before Croatia enters the EU, but well, we haven't missed many days, but regardless of why we haven't done it before. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47149	I thank you, too. It is the turn of the HNS club and the respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47150	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear Madam Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a purely technical document that touches fisheries and fisheries policies. It is that the Republic of Croatia as well as all other maritime countries of the world mainly ratified the 1982 International Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is a key document of the International Law of the Sea. And it regulates, among other things, not only the way of establishing borders at sea, the elements of the sovereignty of the maritime states, but the ways of exploiting wealth, not only of the living but also of the inanimate wealth of the sea. It is, among other things, a very detailed commitment to the preservation, management, biological wealth of the sea. And next, this agreement came into effect after Malta as a 30-nation member state there somewhere in 96 seems to have ratified it. And today 80 maritime countries of the world have ratified this Agreement. And its purpose is, in fact, to bring down a legal framework that prescribes the principles of the management of migrant species of fish, mainly which, in the overall structure of the world's catch, are, in fact, the largest part both in commercial and quantitative terms. This Agreement was designed to lead all the countries that ratified it to ensure that the countries of the principle of cooperation, to stick to principles and to use all possible measures to improve fishing in a way that is sustainable. It is also to preserve the biodiversity of what is said in the introduction of Ms. Deputy and fellow Boxes. In any case, when you read his details, there is much clearer regulation in him than it has been so far and is now in our legislation. It sets very important principles. And it would be good to stick with them. However, what prompted me to report to the debate is that my colleague Boxie mentioned another instrument of the International Law of the Sea that Croatia consumed in one way that I would call embarrassing. In 2003, on 3 October, the Environmental Fishing Belt Act was adopted, extending the judication of the Republic of Croatia to the Equidistance Line, since the Adriatic Sea is part of a semi-closed sea and there is not enough width to reach its full range of 200 nautical miles. By doing so, after years of pressure from fishing science and professional fishermen themselves have tried to stop the devastation of the Adriatic, preserve biodiversity, biodiversity and leave what we borrowed from them for generations to come. However, in the application of this protected eco-fishing belt, it is actually a legal derivative from the economic belt. If we haven't declared a full economic belt for purely political and speculatory reasons, there was no reason not to declare it. There is politics, and this honorable House has played an unworthy role. When the suspension decision was made for the first time in 2004, the suspension of the full application of ZERP was decided not to apply to the Member States of the European Union at that time, we kicked our own Constitution in the ass to tell Zagorca. At that moment, we humiliated national sovereignty. At that moment, we ignored everything that the fishing science had said and proved to be state and trend when it came to the biological wealth of the Adriatic. At that moment, the 60-year-old fishing captains, ladies and gentlemen, were crying for humiliation at sea. And my recommendation to ZERP if we keep to ourselves we never even mention it in this house again. Because this house remained permanently embarrassed by what happened until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. Imagine the paradox, we allowed ourselves to spend Croatian taxpayers patrol ships... ZERP, passing through the forest of Italian fishing boats to find a Komižan and ask him if his extinguisher has expired, if there are any neat papers on board. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've made a parody of the sovereignty of a state. The whole world laughed at us. The result of such a policy today is devastated and impoverished settlements... the species. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You were in the wrong dilemma, you used the exact term, not the fishing but the fish settlements. And today, this area of the Croatian ZERP is as much as international waters belonging to the international law of the sea of the extended judication of the Republic of Italy, where it is very possible that we have achieved what is being achieved in biology, especially biology must be called the point of no return. The point of no return is the moment when a species comes into such a bad state that there is a physical separation of individuals and that the possibility of contact is reduced for... The point of no return is what most cartilage cartilages that were once 2/3 in the mass share of catches were, for example, during the Hvar expedition in 48th year in the Kocarian Hunts, about 60.70% of the weight. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're gone today. At the time of my beginning of professional fishing, we were still fishing for certain specimens, and today they're absolutely gone. And it proves that we have destroyed consciously by carrying out the wrong fisheries policy of biodiversity, and we have also impoverished... Fish settlements in the Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And about ZERP, it's best to remember him only when we're in this House next time we have some important document and some important decision regarding national sovereignty. Then we must remember ZERP so that such a shame will never happen to us again, and such a debacle will never happen again. And as for the state of Croatian sea fishing, it is the result of, among other things, such a policy, it is not as disastrous as with our neighbours and I sincerely hope that this fisheries administration, this Ministry and future generations of Croatian politics will take more seriously care of the Adriatic than it has ever been before. And also, given that this document sets out a great deal of things about migratory species, mostly the pelagic species with an emphasis on blue-tailed tuna, I hope that this document, which the HNS will support, will help us to lead a more responsible Adriatic management policy in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47151	Thank you, Your Honor. There is one replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47152	Dear counterpart Baranovic, you gave one sentence, giving up ZERP was permanently disgraced by the Croatian Parliament, and I fully agree with you. On one side and on the other, they have trampled Croatia's sovereignty on both sides, but the most interesting thing is that none of those people who have raised their hands for the shame of this Assembly today felt no shame, responsibility or guilt because they felt that they were contributing to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. So they interpreted, it was an interest at that time in the Republic of Croatia to undermine the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because of the vasal relationship that is eternal in Croatia, and continues with this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47153	Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47154	I am not concerned about the level of shame that someone feels or doesn't feel. What concerns me in this case is something that happened, which is unacceptable to one regulated rule of law, which is that the basic provisions of the Constitution are ignored because it is absolutely unacceptable to apply the law in one area selectively. This is the first thing, and the second thing that we have agreed to is that Europe is just on top of the principle of non-discrimination which is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. During the negotiations in Brussels in 2005, I personally asked the representatives of the European Commission how it is possible that they have violated the principle of non-discriminatoryism and have denied us the rights that all the Member States of the European Union had and have consummated because, except for Italy and Greece, all other Member States of the European Union, including Malta, have declared their extended jurisdiction and found ways to protect their interests. We didn't have the character to do it. So once again, I warn you, let us look to those who know how to protect their own interests at all costs. Great Britain has just entered an armed conflict to extend jurisdiction in the field of Fackland. They have six extensions of jurisdiction in the world, around every stone the British masters are 200 miles old, and we haven't been able to protect our own interest, and yet we humbled ourselves, which is likely to be one of the few cases of this kind recorded in the history of international law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47155	Thank you, too. This is what we're done with, we've exhausted the discussion of the text of the law of PZ No. 431. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the application of the provisions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 concerning the conservation and management of fish settlements located in several different belts and settlements, very migratory species of fish, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 431. The debate on the text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I find that the Act on the Confirmation of the Agreement on the application of the provisions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea has been unanimously adopted since 10 December 1982 in the text proposed by the Proposer, i.e. Number 431 with 109 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47158	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. During the pre-accession period, the Republic of Croatia has incorporated into the national legislation provisions of the European Union regulation which protect species of wild animals and plants by regulating trade and cross-border traffic through the provisions of the Nature Protection Act (“National Journal”, 70/05., 139/08. and 57/11.) and cross-border transport and trade regulations of protected species. Since the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the Regulation as a secondary source of European Union law has become directly and fully applicable in the Republic of Croatia by adopting this law, the effective implementation and application of two basic Regulations in the area of cross-border trade and trade in wild species, Regulation (EC) No 338/97 of 9 December 1996 on the protection of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade..., Commission Regulation (EC) No 865/2006 of 4 May 2006 laying down detailed rules on the implementation of Council Regulation (EC) No 885/2004 of 4 May 2006 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (EC) No 1606/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (EC) No 1606/2006 of 22 October 2006 on the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 293, p. 1). 338/97 and five Regulations in the same area which are more detailed in the handling and implementation of those basic Regulations. At European Union level, these Regulations implement the Convention on international trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants, CITES. The Republic of Croatia has been a party to this Convention since 2000 and has since actively implemented its provisions. Administrative action based on the provisions of the CITES Convention is one of the most elaborate actions of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature which the body is responsible for its implementation. Since the new Nature Protection Act, which entered into force on 6 July 2013, no longer regulates the area of cross-border traffic and trade in wild species. The law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species provides for the direct application and implementation of those Regulations, and regulates the use of copies of strictly protected native species. The law on cross-border transport and trade in wild species shall lay down the authorities responsible for the implementation and supervision of the implementation of those Regulations and of the law itself, and the tasks of the competent authorities. The methods and methods of identifying copies, the procedure of issuing, form and content of the authorisation, the confirmation of the authorisation, the form and content of the requests submitted by natural or legal persons, the appearance, the manner of filling and marking forms, and the use of language, validity of authorisation and certificate, the replacement of authorised authorisations and certificates, the keeping and updating of the prescribed records, the handling of the samples taken, and the infringement provisions shall be prescribed. The provisions on the method of entry of the authorisation shall comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Also, this law prescribes provisions on commercial use, exports and the movement of copies of strictly protected species declared by the Nature Protection Act. The proposed law respects the specificity of the time and process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and allows for the adaptation of national legislation and the direct application of EU regulations after accession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47159	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to have a debate on the representatives' clubs. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative of Nenad Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47160	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The basic regulation that protects wild species in the Republic of Croatia is the Nature Protection Act. This law is an upgrade in order to prevent cross-border traffic from killing, fishing and wild species and their cross-border traffic that can grow if the cross-border traffic system is undefined and disorderly. Using plants and animals for commercial purposes and destroying their habitats is one of the greatest dangers to the plant and animal world. The consequence of international trade in wild flora and fauna is that many species of plants and animals are threatened with the preservation of their populations or even threatened with extinction. The Convention on international trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants is an international agreement in 1973 that protects endangered plant and animal species. It is also known as the Washington Convention or the CTS abbreviations. The Republic of Croatia is a signator of the Convention on International Trade and Threatened Species of Wild flora and fauna, which obliges parties to monitor international trade in endangered species through an import and export authorisation system and beliefs. The Conferences of the Signatory Countries of the Convention, which shall be held every two to three years, shall update the lists of protected species listed in the Appendix to the Convention and shall adopt measures to improve the protection of endangered species. Global imports of wild flora and fauna are allowed annually worth about 300 billion dollars and permits for commercial trade in CTS. Uncontrollably and excessive use of wild animal and plant species is another orderly threat to their survival in nature immediately after the destruction of habitats. Every year about 25,000 primates, 3 million birds, 10 million... Butters and over 500 million tropical fish, bought or sold worldwide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the figures that represent static data only for the legal part of the trade. It is estimated that illegal trafficking of rare species is worth about $20 billion annually, and prices for some species and their parts and derivatives reach up to several tens of thousands of dollars per copy. Many problems related to the protection of wild and endangered species arise because of insufficient cooperation between the competent authorities of institutions, the European Commission and individual governments of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Therefore, mandatory cooperation is proposed between national authorities, veterinary and customs services, police and judicial authorities. Governments must also provide these bodies and institutions with appropriate coordination and sufficient resources to implement all programmes. One of the activities carried out in many Central and Eastern European countries, for which Croatia is still quite lagging behind, educating customs officers and border guards on identification... wild exotic species of animals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, as many of these seminars are held within a limited range where fewer officials and customs offices and presidents of border offices participate, the impact of such seminars has been reduced. Signing... The Conventions Croatia has committed itself to the strict protection of endangered species in European proportions, including bears. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the Convention, there is a possibility of limited use of hunting in a particular species if the countries signatories of the Convention prove that they have a stable population, a certain species and that a certain strictly restricted hunting operation will not affect the number of states of the population to threaten them. ... The Convention provides, in such cases, for the establishment of a management plan for these types at national level to avoid manipulation such as multiplication of a number of states and to facilitate control of the entire system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under pressure from the International Community, which was also helped by the application against the Republic of Croatia of the CTS Convention, which was submitted against the Republic of Croatia by two members of the "Animalia" Association, Croatia has joined the creation of a single bear management plan. The bear is located on the addition of two CTSs, which means that it is a potentially endangered species, so international trade must be strictly controlled, exports and imports of bears are possible only with personal permits. The brown bear management plan in the Republic of Croatia is the first comprehensive single document that regulates the basic provisions of bear housing and bear management in the Republic of Croatia. This plan is based on scientific and ecological outcomes within the legal administrative, cultural, economic and sociological frameworks in Croatia. Also, much of this plan is based on accepted international conventions, plans and recommendations relating to the conservation and protection of brown bear in Europe, especially in its Alpine area. The plan is designed as an active document to be supplemented, and has caused changes and additions to the applicable legal and sublegal rules governing hunting, protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity and other activities, and the plan itself is based on the Hunting Act. It will build annual plans for brown bear management, monitoring and reports to competent authorities. In this respect, this plan is designed as a basic document to add contributions to specific research related to sociological, economic, biological and other and action plans for each calendar year. The Republic of Croatia is taking place and can be expected in the coming period of major changes in a series of activities that can have a significant impact on the brown bear population. These changes have a major negative impact and it is therefore important to identify, evaluate and find mechanisms to reduce their negative influences. In accordance with the specific International CTS Convention and the Council Regulation of the European Community Regulation, No 338/97. of 9 December 1996 on the protection of species of wild flora and fauna by regulating trade in these species and by belonging to the Commission Regulation and... the Commission’s cross-border traffic and trade in wild species is only possible, subject to the consent or confirmation of the competent authority to a customs officer at the customs border office. Only consistent compliance with international agreements, conventions, respect and application of domestic laws can affect the illicit trade of endangered species of flora and fauna. And therefore any progress of law making in this regard will support the Croatian Labour Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47161	Thank you, Your Honor. It is next to the HNS club and the esteemed Marijan Skvaric. Here you go, Marianne.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47162	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So when we define the proposal of the Law on Cross-border Transport and Wildlife Trade, we can first of all define what it is to assess the situation. In particular, in order to bring legislation into line with the acquis, the Republic of Croatia took over Croatia during the pre-accession period in the national legislation provisions of EU regulations protecting species of wild animals and plants by regulating trade in these species in the EU. Those Regulations implement the Convention on international trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants of the CITES Convention. The provisions of these Regulations have been transposed through the provisions of the Article of the Nature Protection Act and the corresponding Regulation on cross-border transport and trade in protected species. What are the basic issues to be addressed by this law? First of all, we would like to point out that this is regulated by the treatment of cross-border traffic and trade in animal and plant specimens and their parts and derivatives. First of all, if this is not applied, it can also lead to questions about their survival above all wild species. Namely, also endangered species are mostly taken from nature and then resold at multiple prices either alive, or their derivatives, for example their skin. The entire part of the illegal trade at today's level is defined from $10 billion to $20 billion. How do you say how an animal feels when he ends up living as a pet and the dead as a souvenir, decorative objects, trophies, clothing items? Indeed, in that part, we need to make this law sustainable and lifelike. The law also regulates commercial use in the export of specimens for most wild animal species, plants, mushrooms or algae and their parts and derivatives strictly protected by the Nature Protection Act. The competent authorities for the implementation of regulations and conventions in international trade of endangered species of wild animals and plants and this law shall be responsible for the protection of nature by the Central Authority of the State Administration. Ministry. And also, the competent authority for carrying out the professional tasks prescribed by the regulations, the Convention and this Law is the State Nature Protection Office. The law further contains the following provisions, labelling provisions, and that is in a manner prescribed by the regulations laid down in this Act and the Nature Protection Act. The provision on cross-border transport and commercial use of copies shall, above all, be defined as the border transport of the Republic of Croatia on which cross-border traffic and the transit of copies covered by the provisions of this Act, which are subject to a health, veterinary or phytosanitary review. The obligation and procedure for the establishment of the certificate and the conditions for commercial use, export or transfer to other locations of copies of strictly protected species not listed in Annex A to the Regulation of the European Community shall also be prescribed. A detailed method of issuing certificates, application form, certificate form, the obligation of the holder of the certificate is prescribed. It is also prescribed that the ministry keep records of certificates issued. The provision also defines the authorisation and confirmations so that these articles are subject to general procedural provisions relating to the submission of applications for the authorisation and attestation by the basis of the relevant EU regulations and of this law, which relate to the obligation to submit applications in writing, the obligation to submit applications in due time and the obligation to provide true information. The possibility of forwarding the request to the competent scientific authority as well as the time limit for issuing the requested expert opinion has also been prescribed. All authorisations, certificates and authorisations issued under the Regulations in question and the provisions of this Act and as an administrative act and for the same legal medicinal product have also been established. Furthermore, the possibility of issuing a permit for travelling exhibitions containing live or dead specimens of animals or plant species listed in Annexes shall be prescribed. Also, a unique number of travel exhibitions and content of requests must be established previously. Scientists and scientific institutions may also be registered for the purpose of the exchange of scientific materials of the species listed in the Annexes to the Regulation of the European Community. The definition and treatment of taken samples shall, above all, be prescribed for the temporary withdrawal of specimens of animal or plant species, fungi or algae in the event of breach of the provisions of the Regulations in question or of this law. It is also specified that all costs incurred by the infringements of the relevant regulations of this law and the conventions relating to the confiscation of species or the identification of species for which part or product originates, the harmless removal, transport, treatment and care for temporarily withdrawn specimens shall be borne by the perpetrator or the owner of the specimen and, in the case of an unknown perpetrator, shall be placed on the burden of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Treatment with temporarily withdrawn specimens of animals, plants, mushrooms or algae and their accommodation has been prescribed until the infringement has been completed. The objective and supervision of this law is defined through administrative supervision, inspection, customs supervision, border veterinary and phytosanitary inspections and of course police supervision. The supervision and parts shall define the infringement provisions which are defined and the amounts of fines for legal and natural persons, including those responsible in the legal person and natural persons, craftsmen and persons who publish other independent activities relating to infringements of certain provisions of EU regulations and of this law. First of all... a proposal for the adoption of an emergency law that, in view of the need to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the EU and to enable the direct application of EU rules in the area of cross-border transport and trade in wild species, as referred to in Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to adopt the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wildlife. In addition, since the law regulates the direct application of EU regulations which have entered into force for the Republic of Croatia on the day of entry into the EU, it is proposed that this law enter into force on the first day of its publication in the NN. Here are all these allegations that are defined by this law by the Croatian Party-Liberal Democrats will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47163	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal for a law on cross-border transport and trade in wild species, with the final proposal for a law delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 4.7.2013. It has been said here and we are all aware that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. I don't want to read any more right now because everything here is already said on behalf of the promoters on behalf of the clubs, I just want to show and say that the HDZ Club will support this Final Bill on Cross-border Transport and Wildlife Trade, but there's always one but I'm asking for an explanation of how and how it will communicate with the Neumese Corridor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47165	Thank you, Your Honor. Does he want it at the end? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Nature-respected Hrvoje Dokoza, final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47166	Thank you very much. Maybe just a brief response to the Wild Species Corridor. So exactly the question was focused in this direction means for wild species and the transport of wild species to the EU's Republic of Croatia needs only an account. And as far as transportation is concerned, it will be resolved through CITES documentation exactly the point is to introduce this documentation and fix the situation. Here's a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47167	Thank you very much. This exhausted the debate on the text of the law number P.Z.E. No. 437. We'll vote on him when the conditions are met. Final draft law on cross-border transport and trade in wild species emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 437. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the Minister of Environmental Protection and the nature of the respected Michael Zmajlovic to manifest himself. Amendment No 1 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47169	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 1. shall not be accepted for the reason that the infringement provisions concerning those articles relate to the provisions of this Act but to the provisions of Regulation No 338/97 and Regulation No 865/2006 which are listed in brackets with the relevant infringement provisions. For this reason, according to the instructions of the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it was necessary to supplement the infringement provision in such a way as to specify, in addition to any reference to the article to which the infringement applies, the source in order to avoid the ambiguity of the infringement provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47170	Thank you very much. The amendment is withdrawing. Thank you very much. Amendment No. 2nd of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47171	It is not accepted that the forms and, forms and requirements resulting from the provisions of the Regulation of the European Union, which are prescribed their appearance and content, should be printed in the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47172	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 2. That's how we exhausted the list of amendments. Minister, thank you very much. I'm giving, I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most 102 votes in favour and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Let's move forward: - Final bill amending and supplementing the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 434 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the working bodies of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Health, Honorable Marian Cesarik. Here you are, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, in the context of measures to reduce and limit tobacco products, the applicable Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products is prohibited by direct and indirect promotion of tobacco products and precise provisions relating to indirect promotion of tobacco products. Following the implementation of the law, it was found that the issue of the ban and the exposure of individual packs of cigarettes was raised as exposure of other tobacco products to visible positions in places where tobacco products were sold, which caused the unequal treatment of the competent state authorities with regard to sanctioning such behaviour and thus led to the legal uncertainty of all operators on the market. Within the framework of measures to reduce and limit tobacco products, the provision of Article 11(8) of the applicable law prohibits the sale of tobacco products from automatic devices but excludes electronic kiosks for the sale of tobacco and other products with electronic authorisation and customer identification. Following the law, it was established that this provision leaves room for doubtful interpretation and that it is not in the spirit of the law. In fact, one of the main objectives of the law is to prevent the purchase of tobacco products by minors. This is one of the main reasons why Article 7 of Article 11 of the applicable Law provides for an absolute ban on the sale of tobacco products via the Internet without exception for those sales which would include electronic authorisation and customer identification. Since the technology of authorisation and identification of customers on electronic kiosks provides far less certainty that minors will be prevented from accessing tobacco products than is the case when they sell out a human being. It is justified to introduce a complete ban on the sale of tobacco products from automatic devices of any kind. This legislative proposal primarily aims to protect human health by reducing the number of smokers, especially in the young population. Examples and surveys in countries that already have measures proposed by this legislative proposal show that they have a positive effect on the reduction of smoking in young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47175	Thank you, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, we're going to discuss the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47176	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club welcomes the adoption of this Act, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products. We believe that the proposal is good because first of all it is in the interest of the health of children and young people. The law, as we have heard, prohibits the promotion of tobacco products, cigarettes, the direct and indirect ones. Previous changes and additions have banned the sale of cigarettes on machines and will now introduce an absolute ban on the sale of tobacco products via the Internet. If the current trends we have do not stop, therefore the trends in smoking do not stop and the Ministry and Government certainly have the power and obligation to do so by 2030, the number of 5 million people dying on an annual level from the consumption of nicotine and tobacco could, therefore, reach 8 million. European Commission Commissioner Tonio Bork, who is in charge of health care, warned on 31 May of this year when we mark the world non-smoking day that 70% of smokers in the European Union start smoking before their 18th year. And he warned that we must do everything possible to make tobacco products and smoking as little as possible attractive young people. And he then announced a significant tightening of EU legislation in particular in further reducing the possibility of promotion and general promotion of tobacco products and its attractiveness. And this law seems to be exactly in line with these and those intentions that have been announced by Commissioner Borg. Therefore, in order to protect and present, but not only the present generations but also future generations of both health and social and economic and environmental consequences of cigarette consumption, 174 countries have committed themselves to some joint work and platform through the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. This is the first International Convention under the auspices of the World Health Organization, an extremely important document that represents a major improvement in public health. And interestingly, the Convention is already in its preamble to quote, therefore, the need to be cautious about all the efforts of the tobacco industry to undermine efforts in tobacco control. The effect of nicotine on health is poor, irrefutable and scientifically proven. In one of nature's most quoted, most prestigious scientific journals in the late 1990s, a very important scientific article was published that showed that he finally managed to show a direct causal link between smoking and cancer. So until then, we were relying on statistical indicators that said that those who smoke more often get cancer. Only then did we get real concrete, scientific evidence that the connection exists. Of course, smokers are comforted and say that lung cancer dies and those who don't smoke. And according to them, the scientific argument falls into the water. However, this is not true because passive non - smokers who are extremely sensitive to nicotine die. Science must answer another important question why all those who smoke do not suffer from lung cancer. And science is actually on to the answer. And the answer should be approximately the following: that there are genes that some of us have, some of us don't have it, but also those who have it have nicotine resistance, and that's why they can smoke what they say for 90 years and 100 and nothing will happen to them. So what's also irrefutable is that the tobacco industry has no mercy. Her imagination on how to win young people has no end. Because it is necessary to replace those who have decided to quit smoking and to replace those who have stopped smoking, unfortunately because they have died. And young people, so there's no sentiment here, young people just need to attract in every way possible. As the tobacco industry does today, so it gives cigarettes a very interesting and provocative packaging of beautiful colorful colors, add additives, change the taste of cigarettes, add sugars, add menthols, epipires, insert menthol capsules into a filter of cigarettes, produce slim cigarettes for which they are, for example. Crazy young women, etc., etc. The Committee on Environmental Protection, Food Safety and Public Health of the European Parliament held a very interesting thematic session on tobacco products several months ago and discussed two key issues. The first are additives and adding additives to cigarettes, and the second is the appearance of a pack of cigarettes and the supposed tobacco industry uses over 600 different additives that basically have, additives in cigarettes, which basically have three goals. The first goal is to improve the taste, the second goal is to reduce mucous membrane irritation, airways by smoke, and the third is to say plastically, tobacco smoke is easier to slide through the respiratory tract and the third goal is to increase the attractiveness and especially for younger people. All this leads to greater consumption, greater consumption increases the risk of health, increases the risk of cancer, finally increases morbidity and mortality. And the menthol is, I don't know if you knew that, one good example of what I'm talking about. Menthol is very often added to cigarettes and has an extremely harmful effect on health in three moments. The first is that menthol produces a cooling effect, reduces mucous membrane sensitivity, airways to pain, has one mildly stunning effect, and thus disguises an irritant effect that objectively tobacco smoke has on the mucous membrane of the respiratory tract and thus makes tobacco smoke easier to inhale. The second point is that menthol reduces the sensitivity of cells to nicotine, reduces the threshold of tolerance, we can consume more tobacco, and the more tobacco is used, the greater the ability to develop addiction, and in this way as incredible as it sounds, cigarettes enriched by menthol also increase the possibility of addiction. And finally the third thing is that menthol increases the absorption of bad substances from tobacco and smoke into the lungs and thus directly enhances the possibility of cancer. So that is why, for months in Brussels, the European Parliament has been having very heated discussions and has been seeking to reach a consensus on the ban on the use of additives in the tobacco industry, not the determination of minimum levels of additives, but a complete, absolute ban in the tobacco industry. Of course, it is thought that this will protect young people from entering the world of smokers, and that it will also help adults, those who have decided to quit smoking to do so. The second is the appearance of packaging, i.e. a pack of cigarettes, because it has been shown that the attractive packaging acts stimulatingly, to act motivated for young people. The example is Australia, which has achieved phenomenal results with a very aggressive campaign. They started the anti-smoking campaign in '76. In the last few years and years, they have decided that cigarette boxes contain very disturbing photographs showing diseased organs, which are very striking and that once you see them, you can't forget them. The result is that only 15% of people smoke in Australia today, and in Croatia practically every third smoker. This aggressive, but in our opinion and a very justified anti-smoking campaign is therefore absolutely justified because it can act very educationally on young people. New Zealand has also begun to apply this kind of campaign. We witnessed this kind of campaign and on our television, although it lasted very short. We believe that it would be good, given that it gives very good results to reach for it again. The directive with which we are harmonising has really raised a lot of dust in the European Union, but Commissioner Tonio Borg was very convincing and very argumentative in his defence. It has been attacked in public that the directive is in collegiate, the directive that we are now transposing into our legislation, the directive is reportedly in collegiate with freedom and the right of man to choose. But that's not really true. It is not true because the availability of tobacco products is not necessary to preserve freedom of choice because freedom of choice cannot be equated with addiction. So 70% of smokers get that 18 years ago most often for the wrong reasons. But they continue because they've become addicted. They start because they think it's cool, but they keep going because they're addicts. So when you become an addict of what freedom of choice we can talk about. Research shows that the color of the box, that shape and design as well as taste are very tempting to young people especially women. These researches speak, and the directive is therefore proposed in order for tobacco products to be what they are, to make tobacco look like tobacco and to taste the kind of tobacco they should have. Interestingly, media have been saying that EU citizens do not actually support this directive, but that is also not true because the Eurobarometer survey has shown that citizens are very supportive. 76% of citizens approve of images of the consequences of smoking on cigarette packaging, 63% would ban aromatised cigarettes, and 73% favour the introduction of security measures that would prevent tobacco smuggling, even if that means an increase in the price of the same. We in Croatia really have a big problem. Not only are we above European averages when it comes to the adult population but there is even more concern that Croatian youth is very, very early in smoking at 11. Over 25% of the kids tried to smoke. So that's a serious problem. We have nothing to be surprised about, though, because we live in a society where smoking and drinking have become a norm of behavior, almost a desirable standard of behavior and something in this sense absolutely needs to be done. The directive we transpose into our legislation goes that way. We made a decision because of too much pressure, so we withdrew about the ban on smoking in cafes, we allow beer to be advertised as a food product that it is legally. But it's just not good. This is not good, and we have to react as a responsible society, because the final smoking is a risk factor for health. The effects of tobacco consumption are extensive for both individual and society, and responsible society does not leave things to the case or bad trends but is fighting against them and effective policies and good laws and, of course, the good control of the law it has. The SDP club will absolutely support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47177	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47178	Honored Madam President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I will only tell you in a few thoughts without some reading the position of the Croatian Democratic Union. This, therefore, is before us the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products, and I would like to say at first that HDZ will support this law, i.e. amendments to this law. We therefore already have the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products adopted in 2008 and this law is good. He got a positive, I mean solid results in terms of what he was brought in for. This is one supplement. If we think it's the continuity of something good, and HDZ finds it in this case, then there's no reason not to support it, so we'll support it. And what's going on here is we're going to take a measure of things. This is about three things, to supplement these amendments to the law first to ban the sale of tobacco products through automatics and in a way through automatics. Second, we forbid the sale of tobacco products in a territory where tobacco is otherwise banned. So you can sell tobacco, you can't smoke. Now they won't even sell. We forbid online sales, and that's the meaning of this law. So will we, and most importantly the fourth provision, we practically remove tobacco from the eyes of the one who buys the tobacco here. That's what's important to say. We take it out of the eyes on the registers in the supermarkets, get it out of the public eye or whoever buys it in any situation. It has to be somewhere, I don't know exactly at this point whether it's in a warehouse or somewhere in some self-service in a seal there so no one can see it and no longer be at the register, to avoid so-called. impulsive sales. Because when you go, you buy a bag full of supplies and then, uh, there's a tobacco, and now I'm gonna buy it. There's no more of that. It is estimated that by solving that sale, tobacco sales will be reduced. I repeat, the HDZ Club will back it up next time. Now I'm a little bothered. Always this one reading, a quick procedure for harmonising with European Union legislation. If we are not, Mr. Deputy Minister, in these 10 years we have been in line, so we have re-compliant with the laws of the European Union. No one's making us do this. Now, let Belgrade run a little bit with its pace and coordination, let us live a little. But if we agree on something we don't have to do in two readings. Why shorten our time, and I am for reading and adopting in one reading but with one normal explanation. The same thing that got in my way. Who's keeping an eye on you over there, Mr. Deputy Minister, who's writing this to you? I didn't want the board to be able to pull hair all the way along because I was running that session with respect, etc. He says like this: "Only denormalization of smoking as activities will change attitudes, and thus behavior that will result... "Denormalization of smoking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now let's imagine what this means. It means that all smokers will be declared abnormal or that all smokers will be declared here. This is kind of imports from America because the Americans first invented, there's tobacco with syphilis brought to Europe from America, there's started smoking Cuba and stuff in all the Hollywood movies, politicians, actors, etc. They smoke, and even with us, the great presidents of socialism, and these in democracy, they smoke Cuba as a sign of prestige, etc. Then they said and then we started smoking cubes like Americans, that was cool. Then it's gay, then we're yelling gay is okay. Then the Americans, it's a phenomenon with them, don't think I'm not chasing these two things, now the Americans say stupid is the one, not normal who smokes. It's about the middle there in Texas that if you see a neighbor smoking on his property, you can turn him in. Now we should tell me that the abnormal next of kin is these American trends that are kind of abnormal all those who smoke. No, I mean you don't have to say it, but you don't have to write it. They're normal people, but here they come in some habit of addiction. We have to ask ourselves the last thought, the last sentence, what have we already achieved by this previous law? We've achieved quite a lot of success in traffic, so on ships, okay, you don't smoke, on the bus, on the tram, etc. In restaurants, as far as I'm concerned, it's well respected, in state institutions, with a little illegal that's being ignored, they stay at 2 levels, and I'm gonna end up with this. First is the level of privacy, the apartment, whether one family member is irresponsible, smokes in terms or in rooms where his children are. So we have pregnant women who smoke during pregnancy, yes, yes, 40 thousand children are born annually, the question of how many mothers smoke during pregnancy? And we're left with what we haven't solved, or we've solved it by law, but it hasn't been implemented, and Mr. Deputy Minister was supposed to work on it. The cafes don't respect the decision, the one about venting the premises. I wouldn't say even out of a lot of starch, but simply out of ignoring it all. Because they've got ventilation every half hour every five minutes would be bearable. But they don't. That's the first problem. And other problems are summer terraces that turn in winter into closed spaces. They don't have any installations, no ventilation, and then it all comes down to a fight between whoever's at the door and they don't let the door open and whoever's there so they want to. You understand me. So I appeal to the government to do a little better in this regard by implementing existing legal standards. Now, what I was saying about the abnormality of that happiness is not an integral part of this bill's proposal, but it's in front of the text, so I would like to appeal once again to keep an eye on it for a little while in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47179	Thank you, dear colleague Marasovic. You have two replicas. Comrade Vladimir Bilek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47180	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, Mr. Marasovic, most of the things you've said I believe a lot of people agree here, but you said a few things that don't comply with the law, which is namely not to be banned from selling inside a kiosk that's somewhere in hospitals or somewhere near the register, but will just have to be closed so you don't see it in that segment. And secondly, you've talked a lot about America. America has some bad things, some things have good things. What might be good in this case that you've been talking about is that in America, you can only buy cigarettes in certain stores. So, you can't buy in a fruit shop, you can't buy in a mixed goods store, and that's maybe what would be a bigger step if only cigarettes could be bought in strictly dedicated specialized shops or certain gas stations, etc. Because it may not be the point of this, and as a colleague has spoken, we have a problem with the fact that 70% of the smoking population is starting to suck on us 18 years ago. It may not be their goal to remove them from seeing in the specialized trade the cigarette, but that by the age of 18, they can't actually get to that cigarette and that's where I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47181	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47182	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Marasovic somehow listens to you as a doctor as if you've minorized the danger, or the consequences of smoking when you're talking about that term of smoking abnormality. However, I would say, you'll probably agree with me, that it is a kind of autoaggression after all. Because when you look at research where children are said to smoke most often, and they start smoking very early, even when they're 11, 12 years old, it's out of ignorance, and that's why you mentioned when you were talking about having a relationship with children, you mentioned what we can do in closed rooms when mothers smoke or when mothers are pregnant or when their children are young. However, we must stress one more thing, that children are unbeaten masters in observing the world around them. And it's just really important that prevention of education because a mother or father with a cigarette in his mouth can't tell his child this is dangerous, smoking is dangerous, don't you. That's exactly why I would appeal to you here that no one has actually mentioned about smoking prevention. That's how we go to this, the kids learn by model, and I'm going back to most kids starting smoking because of ignorance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47183	Replication response, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47184	I agree with everything you've said. The answer could be a mile long. I'll try something for you. As far as children and family are concerned, the Ministry of State is on our conscience to strengthen promotional activity towards home, according to apartment, according to parents, according to everything that could help here. And I'm when I said about those things, etc., what I said in my speech, thinking in the front row that you should protect those who suffer from passive smoking. In my philosophy, I always have to defend a third person, an innocent person, so I won't be chasing homosexual marriages now, both these and them. To me, things can't have a child that I protect a third person. Protecting a passive smoker would therefore be rigorous in all situations where a passive smoker suffers. That's it. And let's just say I was talking about a colleague of America, and so my soul is full of more of paying for the price of entering the EU and copying foreign models. We've paid it out of... 3 billion and what we should be racing for every bit of blue. We should give up on ZERP, I'd like to sign the ZERP's resignation today in the first place if I could. If that's possible tomorrow you'd declare it. To tell you everything together I've made you a bit of a complication.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47185	On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47186	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We in the HNS, of course, support every effort of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that makes proposals for laws that go towards protection of the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for sure that in one good part of this law goes in that direction means trying in some way to distance the citizens from this very harmful phenomenon which is unfortunately very widespread means the enjoyment of tobacco. But we in the HNS always have certain doubts not in this section concerning the government's attempt to make that one move through this law but in the very concrete things that will happen when this law comes into force. According to the proposal of the law, these products should be removed or removed rather than made invisible or visible within two months. What he is asking about in trades as well as in trades that are widely used and where tobacco products are sold is definitely too short for all of them. So we believe that this adjustment would require an extension of the deadline, and as we have called for the experience of EU countries here in all the debates, then here is one of the latest experiences, so in 2012, exactly one similar law has been passed by the United Kingdom and has allowed two or three years of time adjustments to trade that are involved in the sale or sale of tobacco products to remove them in this way that this law proposes. I don't know for what reason our merchants or trade chains or individuals who have trades that deal with this activity would be in a better position to do so within two months than those in the UK. We believe and have submitted an amendment in this regard, it may be two years too long, but I certainly think that the proposer should consider extending this period of adjustment from these two months because those who have to do so will be in great trouble. Not only do they have to do so, but they will also require certain financial resources. And the other thing, we're a tourist country, enjoying tobacco is legal and it's actually a key problem. counterpart Romana Jerkovic said tobacco is harmful, there are such and such consequences on health. Some things are forbidden in this country, not in this country, but in most European countries, so if we really want to get rid of it then let's ban it. However, he is legal, the enjoyment of tobacco is legal, we are a tourist country and we in the CNS think that these tobacco shops specialized in the sale of tobacco products which, as you know, know very attractively tourism seem to think that those who sell more than 50% in the traffic themselves have realised from the sale of tobacco products that should be excluded from this provision of visibility of tobacco products. Of course, there should be one better control over these systems. Otherwise, control is a big problem because we keep talking about young people here, so we're banned from selling tobacco products under the age of 18, we're banned from selling alcoholic beverages. So what do we think that our people who are of age are stupid, so we're going to put something under their counter that's gonna keep them from it? Maybe we will. And HNS will support this, the effects of all of this will probably be very soon seen. Being against this is certainly not something that is a good message, but that will be the real effects of this cost. I think the law that we tried to make tobacco products out of catering facilities was generally a much better idea than this law, so we weren't more consistent and we weren't credible in passing our own laws, so we retired. We'll see what happens to this. But we won't be against it, but we think that we're definitely going to have people doing this job, we have a whole series of little trades where people are self-employed de facto. If we force them two months of adjustment right now, I think we'll get them into a lot of trouble. So here I appeal on behalf of the CNS not to be more Catholic than the Pope and that if some other countries have made it possible for the adjustment to be done in some long time to do so and to meet our entrepreneurs and to do so for them. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47187	Thank you. Comrade Vladimir Bilek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's a colleague of Hope's said all this nicely, she also mentioned deadlines that are definitely about adjustment, if one UK has given three years of adjustment to all trade chains, or trades that are over 100 square meters, or two years of adjustments to shops that are up to 100 square meters. And just to remind you, these deadlines expire on a year at 4 months for big ones and in two years at 4 months for these little ones. And we will now pass the Law tomorrow in 2 months limit ours and be in some way as Mrs. Hope said more Catholic than the Pope because the truth is that certain adjustments also bring some financial resources. And those funds aren't small. Knowing that some of these shops, especially when they are smaller shops or kiosks, are already on edge today, on the very edge of their survival, and now in this short period they require a new investment from them could mean that they are simply not rentable in one part. In the second part, as you colleagues have said, Croatia is a tourist country. Tourists who come, not only in Croatia, is the habit of smoking among adults who, as well as in wider meanings in the world, tourists who come, come to us to buy. And now tell me the system as one say under quotes we call it "tabaco shop" which, in terms of kiosk, is located somewhere with a glass surface and has been exposed to means 70% of their sales are exactly tobacco products and it is intended for the sale of tobacco products and such has 700-thins in the Republic of Croatia how will it hide all these products in general, how will its surface organise, almost impossible? What you said was that tabaco shops should be excluded and in what sense it went and this amendment is indeed what the practice of the European Union is. So also in England, which has just introduced that part in both Ireland and Norway, which already has introduced such laws, these small tabaco shops that have their own sale means only these products, are almost exclusively excluded from it. Well, I think it's really an amendment that's in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47189	On behalf of the Club representative of the Croatian Labour Party work of counterpart Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47190	Dear Deputy, Your Honor. Here's how this law gives me one I won't start coughing, one real smoker, if I did, there's no reason to be proud but I'm not ashamed of it, only it is. The explanation that the colleagues in HNS said, I don't mind, but also remember, in America, there's no way you're gonna light a cigarette anywhere. I know of those who were so he says after 14 days that they came from there, they all moved on to normables and similar replacement products. So it's not the greatest evil. As a smoker, I support this. What I have to say more than that. I have an observation by my colleague Marasovic about these very urgent procedures. This I don't think is really one of those laws that has to go into emergency procedures but now it's obvious that we're going to go into emergency procedures, but it's a good turn to tell you again. I thank my colleague Jerkovic for the highly inspired debate. I'm solemnly obliged not to smoke cigarettes with menthol because I've seen how harmful they are. She also mentioned that smoking and drinking have become a standard of behavior with us. I can only agree that's not exactly what we're going to single out right now, let's be honest that it's a little fruit and everything else. Well, among other things, children are not strictly related to this topic but the fact is that now any sport if you want to deal with parents must pay both membership fees and registration for competitions and sports equipment. There wasn't a time. Since parents don't have those opportunities then more and more children unfortunately, and in that part they just have to, somehow, have to find their own interests in it. I know you're not from that ministry, but I believe this will result in tomorrow's decline in demand for tobacco products. Think of farmers who got among other things and capital, the return of capital investments for specialized machines that are extremely expensive, for those who do not know are really extremely expensive. And these machines aren't that you can use them for one species today, tomorrow for another agricultural. Thus, they may need to look for ways and what with these people, how to help them to overcome this emerging situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47191	Thank you very much. You've had a brief exposure, but you have four replicas. Vladimir Bilek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47192	Here's a respected colleague, Novak, as you said in America, there are certain restrictions, but that doesn't mean you can't smoke there. First of all, these are restrictions in buying where you can buy, which we talked about here, which means that there are shops, shops, etc., where you can even buy some certain products, let's say, because it's authorized and anyone who wants to, a full-time person can burn. On the other hand, what you said in America is there are restrictions in consumption, or the place of consumption, so let's say 50 meters from public institutions, buildings, state institutions, schools, colleges, means 50 meters outside the circle of these institutions, no smoking institutions. That's a lot, and restaurants, so also the terrace of the restaurant, not even on the terrace of the cafe outside, but 50 meters from the terrace of the cafe. Perhaps these are measures that would be much more and much more helpful in this segment, even if this law has its good attitudes. But we're all looking at this law now just from a health point of view. You're from the Labour Party, and we didn't say anything about saying it in England itself after they moved both to Norway and Ireland in which they introduced it was closed at a short time 700 small shops that were specialized in this. Is Croatia currently ready to remove jobs? On the other hand, you were talking about agriculture, we're subsidizing tobacco production. Many of our farmers survive, almost one large part of Podravina which has an exceptional land because tobacco only endures PH 7, means a country that is neutral so that it can be produced. We have on this side an export product that fills our budget, which fills our budget, the full budget of the Ministry of Health so that we can and solve these problems. So we can't look at just a certain aspect of it, there are connected by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Labour, all in one segment, so we have to look at the impact of individual laws on all.... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47193	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47194	Thank you very much. Well, colleague, I absolutely agree that we should look at the impact on everything, and that's why I mentioned these farmers, but I think we should primarily look at health. Let's face it, I think that the health is more than someone's pleasure, even if it's my pleasure, especially after lunch those five or ten minutes is invaluable. ... Who did I advertise? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't tell anyone, I just said... I think this is given in a different way. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, if you and your coalition partners agree, our hands will be irrelevant in that part of the story anyway. But when you look at the damage caused by that part, and now that we look at and extract it in health, so if you add it up with each other, I have no idea that you've left, at least you haven't given us the impression that you're so socially sensitive to shutting down all other jobs. This moved me, I must admit, for these 700 thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47195	Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47196	Dear colleague Novak, it's very commendable of you to admit that you're a passionate smoker, but I kind of found it strange when you said you weren't very proud of it. I think on the contrary, you should be proud to be a smoker, to be a patriot, to fill the state budget. I think that you should also be run, or Minister Linic could run for credit for the people. I'm sure you'll contribute to the profitability of the pharmaceutical industry, it'll certainly be fine with both health care and why we shouldn't be proud. Well, you're all paying for it in the end. After all, I'm proud to be a smoker by 2001 until 17.7. ... No, no, I'm proud, proud that I helped this country when it was the hardest, proud that I've helped maybe in some advance acquisition of wealth and Mr. Ante Vlahovic, but I'm even more proud that in the last 12 years I haven't burned any. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47197	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47198	I'm not proud, but I'm not ashamed. (Laughter) I just think that you as a coalition partner of these others must be very careful because your Minister Linic, even ours, could punish you for denying him a portion of the income. I think it's about time you got back to that favorite blow job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47199	And Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47200	Dear colleague Novak, you said in your presentation the thesis that a part of a young person smokes mostly, that he can't get involved in sports because it's expensive etc. and then to drink and smoke and therefore deal with what we want to prevent these activities. Your thesis is problematic for two reasons. First of all,... research has shown that 15-year-olds have been working, that young people drink mostly because of drinking and because it's socially acceptable form of behavior. Bing drinking, so drinking three and more drinks in a very short time, speed is just an indication of it. So they don't drink because they're bored or you don't know, but precisely because it's socially acceptable behavior and that overdrinking is socially acceptable and that's the problem. Secondly, the the the thesis that those programmes also sport against drugs, sports against alcohol and addiction has shown that you don't actually have any positive correlation between dealing with sports activities and addictions and that's the biggest delusion there is. Sport has its own benefites, I would say everyone should be involved in sports, but no sport has prevented anyone from being addicted to this or what in any way, and we have to break those pink curtains that we have about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47201	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47202	Well, I wouldn't agree, okay you... They're very handy research when you're working on the situation you're in, but if it were a different situation, would that be so? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you have people who are, if you let kids go to sports, then it's not in that society anymore. Maybe it's not in drinking, three to one, or whatever you said, three to the ex. I don't know, but I get the impression that when I get into this environment of kids who are involved in sports to say the mention of someone giving cigarettes, giving a smoke, giving a drink, so still, they just don't care, having a whole other world, living in a whole other world, having some completely different ideals and dealing with something completely different. I don't know, I'm absolutely not contesting your right to refer to the data. I'm calling on life, what I'm looking at around me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47203	We're moving on to an individual debate. He's the first and only colleague, Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47204	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy. I had to pick up, although it looks like I'm going to be at the mercy of Linic, like my colleague said, because here's my first non-smoking adulthood. So here I am at 1.1 this year, 18 years of not smoking, and I had to answer it. But, well, whatever it is, I just wanted to say here's every single one of my Zagreb mornings or almost every morning my Zagreb morning starts with a taxi, and when I sit in that taxi, the first thing they do is hit my nose with that one shelf with some kind of 6.7 bulkheads. You've got those high-priced cigarettes inside you, and while I'm driving here to the Parliament, then I can mostly ask that casual conversation, and I'm asking how the job is going, why are you selling it, what's the profit. And then your answers are no matter how many drivers you want, but your answers are identical. The first answer is that it goes best at night and weekend. The second answer is that there's no profit to be made. The third answer is that customers are only young. And the fourth so interesting that no one, that they don't do it for some profit because they're small margins, but to be at the service and at the hands of their clients. I think I've said a lot of things in some way, and if we were to take into account that we've both given in controls and these kiosks and these shops and the promotions and all that, and we've missed those controls on the restriction of the area where these tobacco products can be used, then I'd be betting in some way that this law is going as soon as possible, that the deadline of application is as short as possible and that we certainly don't go in that direction that we're now starting to get mushrooms in the cities of some specialized store because it's going to be even worse than what we've had so far. And I believe that control will be as rigorous as possible and I would always stand up for it. And now I'd say something short, global. Namely, if in this century the world were less hypocritical, if we really had the desire and will or if that world had the desire and the will to save a billion people who would die precisely from the consequences of smoking or if we in Nice Ours had the will to save a million in this century, a million Croats and Croats would then we would have left all of our own, I would say pricey and invaluable smoking policies, any promotional restrictions, and I should simply have these cigarettes placed in pharmacies. Yeah, right in the pharmacy. Because if smoking is addiction, if addiction is a disease, then we have a patient in front of us who should be given nicotine therapy. So, we need to review it, and we need to run some tests, we need to prescribe a prescription, send it to the pharmacy, and it's nice to write you three times a cigarette a day, and we would do it all in the best possible way. I know it's a utopia right now, I know it's our future, but that's certainly the simplest solution. All this other stuff is a kind of hypocrisy, but why? Because there's a reason, there's a business, there's capital and there's a tax. And that's where we play cat and mouse and fool each other, not thousands, not millions, but billions of people die from smoking. I won't do it anymore, but I won't smoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47205	Thank you very much. The debate was interesting and inspiring and I ask the Deputy Minister if he would like a final word? Here you go, Marian Cesarik.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47206	Thank you very much. Here's how from this debate, every former smoker remembers very well the day he quit smoking, and every smoker here's what's conscious of the damage he's doing to himself and to others. So I think if the fact that about 9,000 people die annually from the consequences of smoking is alarming, but know it's not just that. A far greater number are those who suffer daily from smoking. And that's why I don't exactly agree with the assumption that these specialized shops are the solution. However, I think that soon in Croatia could increase the number of these specialized shops where it would then be used to promote very much. Then we'd have a specialized store on every corner. Someone said you shouldn't be more Catholic than the Pope. So here's when it comes to religious aspects, I'd just like to tell you what Jesus told Judas, what you have to do as soon as possible. So if we need to do something, my people, do it as soon as possible, make it two months, let's not delay for two or even 20 years. I don't think that makes any sense, and we need to devote ourselves to this as soon as possible because it's these opportunity costs that are the benefit that this law will benefit our citizens, our nation, above all our young people, our children. Therefore, I suggest you fully support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47207	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Now let me just tell you what we're gonna do tomorrow. First, we will discuss the final proposal of the Law on Railways, the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport and point 52 of the Proposal of Lifelonging and Retirement Act. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47208	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 434. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HNS Representatives' Club. I'd like Deputy Minister of Honor Mariana Cesarik to show himself. Amendment No. 1 of the HNS Representatives Club No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47209	Thank you very much. Amendment 1 to the CNS Representatives Club to allow direct and indirect promotion of tobacco products in specialised shops for the sale of tobacco products that generate at least 50% of the proceeds from the sale of tobacco products shall not be accepted with the following explanation. Direct and indirect promotion of tobacco products as a display of tobacco products in all retail places gives the opportunity to advertise tobacco. After the ban on tobacco advertising and promotion, the visible availability of tobacco products in all retail places is increasing, so much so that it became a means of smoking for children and adults. Children and young people are particularly open to advertising that are exposed to tobacco advertising and promotion, the likelihood that they will get used to smoking is greater, contrary to the objective of this legislative proposal, which is to protect people's health by reducing the number of smokers especially in the younger population.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47210	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, respected representative Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47211	In the NHS, we felt that there would be more understanding for amendments to the bill since we are the first tourist country, and secondly, it seems to me that in practice it would seem to us that in practice there will be problems, above all, the practical problems of those who have such shops. And it seems to me that in the next few months it's going to happen that most of these specialized shops are going to see us closed for re-arrangement or I don't know what other reason simply won't have any more reason to exist at all. And we felt that there would be more understanding in the debate of colleagues on both sides since we had already seen in the debate that understanding had not been withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-11-0.u47212	Thank you very much. Amendment number 2. You're withdrawing both amendments to your honourable MPs? Both amendments. Thank you very much. Both amendments have been withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to make a statement. Who am I in favor of? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes of 75 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 1 abstention has been passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
