ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50522	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and representatives of this House of Commons. It is another law that actually harmonizes our legislation with EU legislation, and therefore only a few words about this law. The Republic of Croatia was obliged to transpose the provisions of Directive 2009/33 of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport into national legislation. According to the first report by the European Commission this year on the application of Directive 2009/33 of the EU Parliament and of the Council since 23 April 2009, most of the countries have not transposed that directive into national legislation by the deadline set, or by 4 December 2010, but have done so later in 2011 and 2012, with Latvia not yet fully adopted its provisions in its legislation. That Directive aims to promote clean and energy efficient vehicles markets and thus contribute to the achievement of the EU's overall energy, environmental and climate policy in the area of transport. This Directive refers to certain categories of road vehicles, passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, heavy cargo vehicles and buses supplied by public authorities and contract entities established by the European Public Procurement Directives. In accordance with the provisions of Directive 2009/33 of 23 April 2009 when making decisions on the purchase of road vehicles, road motor vehicles must be taken into account energy and environmental effects related to the operation of the vehicle throughout the period of exploitation or its working life of the vehicle. These environmental and energy impacts must include minimal energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, pollutant emissions, non-methane hydrocarbons and floating particles but other environmental protection criteria may also be taken into account. This set of requirements for energy and environmental impacts can be realised in two ways, including technical specifications related to energy and environmental protection in vehicle purchase documentation or using those effects as criteria for decision-making in public procurement, where the price of the vehicle is no longer a decisive criterion for the choice decision. Subject law transposing EU Parliament and Council Directive 2009/33 of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport to the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, The scope of the law is established, the minimum content of environmental impact concepts and the energy effects to be taken into account in the purchase of a road transport vehicle shall be further prescribed from the application of the provisions of that Directive and of the laws, the powers to adopt implementing rules on the methodology of the calculation of operational costs during the period of exploitation of the vehicle and on the criteria for the purchase of a road transport vehicle to be used in public procurement procedures shall be laid down. The adoption of this law will result in the harmonisation of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia with EU rules in the field of public procurement of clean and energy-efficient vehicles for road transport and the creation of a regulatory framework necessary for the application of public procurement rules in the implementation of public procurement procedures for such vehicles. The implementation of the legislation involves the transport sector in the Republic of Croatia more concrete and more actively in the realisation of the EU's general objectives regarding the more rational and efficient use of energy resources and environmental protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50523	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the presidents of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee wish to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we go to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. No, it is the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50524	Your Honor, Your Honor, Deputy Assistant. This is one of those classic examples of how this government is proposing laws. A law that doesn't hurt, but frankly, it doesn't do much good. There's no point in this law because there's no law that doesn't have to be broken or in criminal terms if someone doesn't stick to it, I don't see the point of passing those laws. In our people, the usual term is for this kind of thing is holy water. I hope I didn't hurt some. This proposal makes it practically mandatory for those who are under the obligation of the Public Procurement Act to mean both the state and units of local and regional self-government, state-owned enterprises, companies whose founders are units of local self-government to do so through the so-called so-called so-called local self-government. prefer the so-called Green procurement to public procurement let's say they must, they have some obligation, now it's hard to say that they have an obligation if there is no sanction for it if they do not carry out their obligation, but let's say they have an obligation to take care of the European Union's common energy policy, which is the one of the famous 20-20-20, but if that doesn't happen, we'll scrutinize them and take a firm look at them with our shoulders. The consequences will be absolutely nothing. Therefore, even though I know that this is in compliance with European Union regulations, but since we have not agreed to them so far, I think that this part should wait or ultimately be innovative, so as a state to make a solution, propose a solution in which to calculate these infringements or criminal provisions in which all those who are bonds would actually be forced to comply with this law. The question is whether the state really intends to be ecologically aware, given that, I guess everybody knows that, say, givings that are for those vehicles are far greater than giving for vehicles on a classic drive. So let's say the registration itself, when registering the technical inspection of the gas vehicle you have to pay an additional 500 kuna plus the extremely high cost of atesting the device itself, is practically detimizing this way. For hybrid vehicles and electric vehicles, the same story is even worse in some segments. However, there is no real will to move with such an environmental awareness for the simple reason that is most common in today’s times, which is financial. When you take that charging budget from fuel excises, Minister Linic said the other day that we have the lowest excise duty to be somewhere if I'm not mistaken 51% it seems to me that he said and that they are the lowest in the European Union. It is evident that they are not the lowest in the European Union because we also have a country of 48 if I am not mistaken, the lowest. The lowest share of excise duty in the fuel price, but given the announcements that from 1. 1. In 2014, the part to jump to not exactly negligible 56%, so when compared to the purchasing power of Croatian citizens and citizens of the comparable European Union countries, then we come to the realization that a Croatian citizen is very much engaged in filling the state budget through excise duty, and thus, if the state through greater environmental awareness went to a reduction, it would cut its revenues. Frankly, that's not exactly to be expected, especially in this situation where they announce all new and new additional obligations. So, I don't see, I don't see the purpose of passing these laws that are simply fulfilling some form, and in doing so, there is no real goal. We just pile up laws that we prescribe from the European Union without any real effect, no real impact, I mean these laws that are without criminal and criminal provisions and, unfortunately, we heard yesterday and on a committee that, on a round table organised by the four committees together, there are four other laws that are practically undefined, undefined. Because if you don't prescribe a way to control law enforcement, that law doesn't make sense. So we will be restrained around this law, although we welcome the idea, we support the idea of both environmental solutions and energy-efficient solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50525	Thank you, Your Honor. Replications have been reported to your presentation. The first replica and respected representative of Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50526	Comrade Novak, in this part you're right that in law... criminal provisions, you can see that. However, I would not agree until the end with you if this law were holy water and were of no use to anything. The main intensities of this law are environmental protection. In the directive itself, and this was seen in the draft law, it was actually required to make the rules on the basis of which the calculation or other words would then include costs, operational costs incurred during the lifetime of the vehicle. In particular, the energy value of the fuel used by the vehicle, then the emissions of harmful gases such as carbon dioxide, because of the formation of 2.5 kg of carbon dioxide from one litre of fuel, which is not negligible, is added to carbon dioxide 4 cm per kg of exhaust gas and so much increases the price that enters public procurement. So according to the Public Procurement Act, anyone who conducts public procurement will not be able to easily ignore it, if the regulation is well written, we have no reason to doubt that it will not, because the directive clearly prescribes it, will not be able to exempt that part of the price of the vehicle from that people's price, I am not rich enough to buy cheap things because it is certain that a bus that has traveled half a million miles has far more operating costs than new buses. In that sense, I say, this law makes sense, especially with regard to environmental protection. So I wouldn't agree with you if it didn't do any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50527	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50528	Thank you very much. Just because these data are probably accurate, I don't doubt them at all what you said about pollution, but the fact that it doesn't exist, it's not built-in modality to force users to already talk enough about it. On the other hand, I haven't even mentioned it, but the law states that the implementation of this law will not require additional funding. So units of local and regional self-government, state-owned enterprises, a company whose founders of the local self-government unit are all budgetary users and now we say we won't have any effect. If it forces them to comply with this law, even through a rule, even though I honestly doubt such solutions. It's number one, and under number two, it hasn't shown up in practice that that's how it works. Turns out there's a lot of things in law, not just one thing. But I said in the final part that as for environmental awareness and energy, that part, we support it, but that the law would be complete, that it would make sense then it should make it a little more serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50529	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50530	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Novak, so I wouldn't say that this law is holy water, so he's made to make it better and better, but only if his application is in the places where he can be applied. Because when you look at this moment, most of the car companies are in trouble, either in a pre-war deal or in bankruptcy. And the basic question arises, first of all, the buses carrying school children, how many of these buses will satisfy these conditions in the next 5 or 10 years because simply those who have received this competition have no money to buy new buses. And remember, unfortunately, the accidents these buses had, and when you look at the main carriers in Croatia, they use the best buses for tourist routes, and these others could easily compete to film a more modern version of the movie that sings there and there is a lack of this law. Because if you, in all laws, have become a characteristic of this government, I say, are not needed funds, if the government is not going to help carriers because it is the same entrepreneurial activity that employs thousands of people, therefore they have the right to help as everyone else is talking about. They are simply a dry need, first of all, that many railways at this point are unfortunately totally invaluable and will have to be replaced by these buses. So in order to be able to apply the provision of paragraph 1 of Article 5 of the proposed law then someone will have to help, some stimulating measures will have to be given, and then unfortunately we will have a literally dead letter on paper, no matter where these provisions are to be welcomed and no one will be against them, only the question is sometimes good when you pass a good law is a matter of space, time and environment in which this law applies, and unfortunately where space, time and the environment in which this law will apply is at this point extremely negative because most of these carriers are in a pre-departure settlement or bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50531	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50532	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Shuker, after all, and you finally came to the fact that because of the reality of the application of this law, this will end up being the consciousness of the world's guide, and in any case what you said I finally said in my debate. We welcome this idea and the intention itself is positive anyway. This second part that you were talking about carriers, we just found out a few days ago that this same Ministry is doing a traffic strategy that will include this segment that you've been talking about, locally, regional integration which has not been the case so far, only that infrastructure part has been processed so far, and now it's going to be a transport part, so I hope there will be big shifts. Although, at the same time, when we see that the resolution minister makes announcements that honestly do not belong to his sector at all, that if we do not monetize or privatise Croatian highways, it will not be for pensions. In time, Mrs Pusic said if we do not go to the European Union for a referendum, there will be no pensions, so there is such an easy round of everything and everything. I hope that this part of the car will not pass as well as the airports because we hear that all airports in Croatia will be privatised by the Ministry or the Minister, and then I do not see the need to be in the strategy, for example, covered by air traffic. Maybe that's how this road traffic will be solved in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50533	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the Social Democratic Party Club and Honorable Representative Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50534	Your Honor, your honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP club will support the proposal for a law on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport. The main intensity of this legislative proposal is aimed at protecting the environment. The truth is that the most polluting air is caused by stationary energy sources, actually created by combustion, primarily by sulfur dioxide. 92% comes from stationary sources, carbon dioxide 35%, and nitric oxide emissions, perdon carbon dioxide 63%, carbon oxide emissions 35%. However, in transport, in extreme combustion conditions such as in motor vehicles, the largest part of nitrogen oxide emissions comes from the transport of 63%. 25% carbon dioxide emissions and 8% sulphur dioxide emissions. However, trends show that the biggest increase in pollution will continue to emerge from traffic. Transport greatly affects the environment, thus polluting it with exhaust gases. The average car releases as much carbon dioxide annually as it weighs itself. I've been counting for about 20 years as much as I have a driver's license myself because I'm the driver from the car I was driving was dropped around about 40 tons of various exhaust gases and particles. The majority of carbon dioxide, and the rest are nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides, lead compounds, non-methane hydrocarbons and so on. For an hour on the freeway at 130 km/h, you spend as much oxygen as one man spends in 10 days breathing. Each litre of fuel burned in very general frames causes emissions into the atmosphere of 100 g carbon monoxide, 20 g of volatile organic compounds, 30 g of nitrogen oxides, 2 and a half kilograms of carbon dioxide, and a number of other compounds including lead compounds, sulphur compounds and solid particles. Each of these exhaust gases is directly related to air pollution, some of which work locally, directly on human health, while others act globally causing global changes such as greenhouse effect. So, we cannot ignore traffic, a very negative impact of transport on the state of the environment, and especially because it increases from day to day and the number of means of transport. In accordance with Directive 2006/32 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the public sector should continue to use energy efficiency in percentages of public procurement. Motor and transport sectors play an important role in energy efficiency and energy savings. Member States shall ensure that the public sector fulfils its role as exampler in the context of this Directive. To this end, they shall effectively inform citizens and businesses, where necessary, of the role of example providers and public sector measures. The public sector shall apply requirements for the purchase of equipment and vehicles on the basis of a list of specifications of energy-efficient products of different categories of equipment and vehicles made up of a body or agency using, as appropriate, an analysis of the costs of a minimum cycle of duration or a comparable method to ensure profitability. This law transposes Directive 2009/33 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. This Directive requires contracting authorities or contracting entities as well as certain operators in the purchase of a road transport vehicle to take into account energy effects and environmental effects for the lifetime of a vehicle including energy consumption, as well as a mission of carbon dioxide and emissions of certain pollutants with a view to promoting and achieving and promoting the market for clean and energy-efficient vehicles and increasing the contribution of the transport sector to Community policies relating to environmental, climate and energy protection. The aim of this Directive is to encourage the market for clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport, in particular as this would have a significant impact on the environment on the market of standardised vehicles produced in larger quantities such as passenger vehicles, buses and trucks. By ensuring the level of demand for clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport which would be large enough to encourage manufacturers and industry to invest and further develop vehicles with low energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and pollutant emissions. Decision 1600/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 July 2002 on the Sixth Action Programme of the Community for Environmental Protection found that specific measures are needed to improve energy efficiency and energy saving, to include climate change objectives in transport and energy policy, and specific measures are needed to address the issue of energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. The Commission communication of 19 October 2006 entitled Energy Efficiency Action Plan and potential utilisation announced that the Commission would continue its efforts to develop the market for cleaner, smarter, safer and more energy-efficient vehicles through public procurement and awareness-raising. Regular review of the 2001 Commission White Paper on Transport entitled "Let Europe Move"... Since 22 June 2006, the Union has announced that it will encourage innovations suitable for the environment, particularly through the succession of European norms and the promotion of clean vehicles on the basis of public procurement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Commission's Green Paper on Urban Transport of 25 September 2007 entitled "According to new cultural and mobility in cities" states support by stakeholders by promoting the placing on the market of clean and energy-efficient vehicles through green public procurement. It proposes that a possible approach could be based on internalising external costs using energy costs, carbon dioxide emissions and pollutant emissions generated throughout the lifetime of the vehicle, and these costs would be the criteria for selecting an offer in addition to the price of the vehicle supplied. Moreover, public procurement would favour vehicles that meet the new euro standards, faster transition to the use of clean vehicles would improve air quality in urban areas. The maximum impact on the market, together with the best cost-benefit ratio, can be achieved by compulsory inclusion of energy consumption costs, carbon dioxide emissions and pollutants generated during the lifetime of the vehicle as well as the criteria for selecting offers for public transport services. The inclusion of energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and pollutant emissions in the selection criteria does not lead to higher total costs but foresees the costs incurred during the life of the vehicle when choosing the offer. In addition to legislation in the field of euro norms where emission ceilings are set, the actual emission of money pollution is expressed and does not require the adoption of additional standards. Buying clean and energy efficient road transport vehicles offers opportunities for cities to brand as environmentally conscious. It is important to publish information on public procurement on the Internet in accordance with this Directive. All contracting authorities or contracting entities and operators shall take into account energy effects and environmental effects during operational life. Energy impacts and environmental impacts that need to be taken into account include minimum energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and nitrogen oxide emissions, non-metallic hydrocarbons and particulate emissions. In addition to energy effects and environmental impacts, contracting authorities and operators may also take into account other environmental effects. The adoption of this law will bring the legal system of the Republic of Croatia into line with EU rules in the field of public procurement of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles and create the necessary regulatory framework for the handling of public procurement regulations in the implementation of public procurement procedures for such vehicles. By implementing this law, the transport sector in the Republic of Croatia has been more specifically and actively involved in the implementation of the EU's general objectives regarding the more rational and efficient use of energy resources and environmental protection. And in the end, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50535	Thank you, Your Honor. We have replicas. The first replica and respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50536	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I've been closely monitoring your exposure and these percentages that you're about, the percentages of exhaust gases and that are really worrying about from carbon dioxide to nitrogen oxide and everything else. Surely this is worrying about the reasons for the conservation of the environment that we in the wider European frameworks have relatively well preserved and we are obliged to leave it behind for generations. Of course, it is also important from the basis of health care and adverse effects on the health of citizens. We see what's going on in health care, if we're going to expand our thinking a little bit. But also in these circumstances comes this directive and these measures that are necessary to implement, but I want to tell you that this is already in play with us. People get far less, given these prices of everything else they ride far less. But I'll tell you from the position of the area where I come from, from the village where many of our tractors that our hardworking farmers have are not able to fix simply and they come under the key. So they're not driving anymore. That's part of it. And secondly, these new modern machines that have all the technological and environmental conditions no one can buy. And now you're talking about public procurement, that public procurement is like this. Who's gonna get it? So the peasant doesn't get anything anymore, he doesn't get the basic repro material that's necessary for the most basic needs. So there are already such measures of rigorousity that simply say no driving. And then it's the preservation of the environment in that true sense of the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50537	Replication response, distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar. I was gonna say something, but I'm gonna skip, and I'm gonna say it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50538	Although your replica was so rich to everyone, I didn't know exactly what this part of this bill was. As for tractor repairs so believe me, I know a lot of mechanics, tractors do very well, there are people who can do it and do it well. And as far as buying a car is concerned, the truth is, in times of crisis, that demand for vehicles is reduced and that's just the way it is. However, we cannot close our eyes, and you yourself said that it is very important for future generations to take care of the environment. And that's why we can't have this context right now because right now, vehicles are being bought less, so we're not going to make it possible to protect the environment as much as possible in the future. True, by technical solutions, by introducing a probe, oxidation and reduction catalysts. A lot has already been achieved but legal solutions are also needed especially in public procurement, if you have listened well and if you have read the bill says that the public sector must be an example. It's the intensity of this law, it has to be an example because if we're not going to be in the public sector standing up for such vehicles, why would someone in the private sector? Besides who needs it today, and you know there are people like that, who need a 500 horsepower car? People drive cars like that. True, it's a little strange and unnecessary but there you go. But by the time it comes to consciousness it also needs legal solutions to encourage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50539	New replica and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50540	Thank you very much. Well, your fellow environmental lecture was really very exhaustive and instructive, and I must admit that you impressed me with the mass of that data, but one question, more so rhetorical. Do you drive a car on a hybrid drive? Or do people who consider themselves to be ecologically aware of whether or not they're driving it? It is not driven from, most people because last year if I am not mistaken in this year, only 32 or 34 vehicles in Croatia are registered for hybrid drive. So it's not a matter of whether people are environmentally conscious or not, the thing is that they can't afford it financially. Good will, good intentions are not at all controversial, but the law does not only have that criminal or criminal part, but through other legal solutions it does not stimulate the use of such vehicles. You have mentioned now in response to this past replica of the public sector, that is correct, but in that case, the law does not state the part that will not require additional funding. If local self-government units are required to comply with the Public Procurement Act at the end of the day, then it will still cost something, or this is really just a dead letter on paper that we will use one day when conditions come, when we live a little better, when some better times come. We write laws for the time we live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50541	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50542	Here's my colleague Novak. I'll try very briefly. So the way I understood this law and the meaning of the whole story when we're talking about public procurement, and you mentioned a personal example, I'm not driving a hybrid vehicle, but I'm personally going to set up a dilemma for you right now. Is it better to buy a man a used car that has passed 200 thousand kilometers for which he actually doesn't know at that moment how real his costs will be because he doesn't even know the state of the engine doesn't know the state of all those moving parts that are important in driving or buy a new car that will, of course, be much more expensive at the start but its maintenance will be much less. But believe me, there are a lot of examples of people who were buying used cars, cars that had more fuel consumption, and eventually came up with a situation that was much worse economically than taking new cars. It's the law's intensity, it doesn't have to be bought hybridly, but to take into account the environmental impact through the price, so that that price can then be a public purchaser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50543	Thank you, Your Honor. We're going to a meeting with the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50544	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Sir Deputy with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. This Law on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles on road transport is, on its basis, intended to transpose the Directive on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport, which is the urgency of promoting the placing on the market of clean and energy-efficient vehicles through green public procurement. It is also a tendency to abandon the practice of accepting the lowest offers in public procurement and replacing the purchase of sustainable products. In its opening part, Zhagar also mentioned the EU Parliament and Council decision of 22 July 2002 establishing that energy efficiency and energy savings require specific measures to include climate change targets in transport and energy policy, and that specific measures are needed to address the issue of energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. Finally, this should be a particular incentive for manufacturers and industry to invest and further develop vehicles with low energy consumption and CO2 emissions and pollutant emissions. Since clean and energy efficient vehicles are initially more expensive than conventional vehicles to create sufficient demand for such vehicles, they ensure cost reduction through economies of scale. It's all about achieving what's called the so-called achievement. The targets of 20-20-20 therefore reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, increase the share of renewable energy use to 20%, increase energy efficiency by 20%, and achieve 10% of the level of renewable energy in transport. The objective of the European policy is sustainable transport, the establishment of a transport system that will, on the one hand, meet social and economic needs and, on the other hand, more stringent environmental criteria. Recognizing the problem of expansion of transport sector growth, and thus its negative impact on the environment of the EU through this directive, which we are implementing and through a number of other documents is trying to promote clean and energy-efficient vehicles. The HDZ Club, taking into account the objectives of European policy and sustainable transport and the need to reduce the negative impact of transport on the environment, supports the intention of this law that is in line with the EU acquis. Just before, Mr. Zhagar said in his reply that just in the implementation of this law, the public sector should be an example of the state and its public enterprises, so that local self-government and its public companies, which are bound by the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, set an example for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia to contribute through green public procurement precisely to the objectives that make this law possible. So it seems to me right now that the government should be the one who, by example, should be the first to advance in showing and proving that it is indeed on the line of implementation of this directive that we are today implementing in Croatian legislation. But that's not the case. We are witnessing that the Government or the State Office for Central and Public Procurement opened a public procurement procedure for motor vehicles in March 2013. The estimated purchase value according to the tender documentation is 266 million kuna, and the subject of that public competition is the purchase of 1,742 motor vehicles of which 1,328 passenger vehicles are. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia agreed at 116th session held on 19th of September this year, so after having sent this law to the parliamentary procedure, the state budget beneficiaries agreed on the burden of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the rental of a vehicle through an operational lease for the addition of 271 vehicles totalling... million kuna. Therefore, the Government has more than anyone in this year’s 1,600 passenger vehicles could show by its own example that it is very concerned about the implementation of this Directive and the conservation of the environment and ultimately about the reduction of costs because it is clear that, during the time of use of these vehicles, there is ultimately a reduction in costs, and what is particularly important to the conservation of the environment. So here's how much about the government's credibility when, on the one hand, it sends a bill to the Parliament that should be followed by the so-called law. green public procurement. And on the other hand, he's ruling his own example and his own competitions, not one, not one provision... did not mention exactly this green public procurement through which, in a certain way, it would show its own example of how it is handled in a section relating to respect for European legislation but more than what is necessary for all of us in Croatia, and that is indeed the preservation of the environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also an example of a very interesting one which speaks and is linked to the directive that says that this Directive should not prevent public contracting authorities or contracting authorities from giving priority to the latest euro norms when buying a vehicle for public transport services even before these standards become binding. This Directive should also not prevent public contracting authorities or contracting authorities from giving priority to alternative fuels, such as hydrogen, incinerated oil gas, compressed natural gas and biofuels, provided that energy effects and environmental impacts are taken into account during life. So when we talk about these energy targets defined by the European strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, so on. In Europe 2020, we would like to point out that there is a significant role in achieving these objectives in promoting renewable fuel production. In this regard, unfortunately, we must conclude that the 20-20-20 target we have taken over as well as the target of a minimum of 10% share of renewable energy in transport fuels will remain a dead letter on paper if this Government of the Republic of Croatia continues with the policy it has led in this area in these two years. So I remind you that the latest amendments to the Biofuels Act significantly changed the production incentive system were fuel and also by the decision on the level of the fuel production allowance in 2013 the compensation was reduced by 5 lira per litre of fuel, per litre of fossil fuel in 2012 to 3 liters per litre in 2013, so 40%. In addition, by decision on the single amount of cash incentives for the production of fuel in 2013 which is the subsidy to the producers of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia reduced the amount of cash incentives for the production of biofuels, i.e. for bio diesel 3,46 kuna at 2,82 kuna and bioethanol... Kune and 75 lip on 0.26 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of this is a clear indication that this government is considering and implementing a policy of fostering renewables in transport fuels. So this directive we are implementing today says that it should not prevent the Government from further, that this Directive should encourage the Government to further strengthen the position of the producer biofuels in the Republic of Croatia, to further make efforts to promote the production of biofuels and bioethanol and bio-ethanalysts from the State budget. However, here is the law that has been passed to me at the end of the year, it seems that the reduction of incentives from the state budget was intended for producers of fuel in the Republic of Croatia. And not only that, but the fee paid by the fossil fuel distributors in the Republic of Croatia is no longer the original income of Croatia, regulators and markets by the energy of HROTE, but through the excise system has become the income of the state budget and then the Ministry of Finance will, when granted and in a way that is clear to them, not to me personally, pay to the independent regulator the amount of fuel that will not be even remotely equal to what the fuel distributors paid to the energy market operators in Croatia as their original income. And in this context, it is possible to observe the adoption of this law, which, on the one hand, we want to make a declaration that we accept the European acquis when it comes to environmental protection. On the other hand, we can talk so much about saving this government when we can find 360 million kuna for the purchase of the vehicle this year, at the same time as Minister Linic announces the suspension of subsidies to residential savings and which amount is twice as much as the purchase cost of the vehicle in the Republic of Croatia. I suppose these examples speak enough of the credibility of the Government when it points to the law of such laws, to the Parliament of such laws and, on the other hand, to other laws and decisions, it greatly violates this project that is very acceptable for us in the Croatian Democratic Community Club through this Law. And one more, and one more thing that should certainly be said to... Mr Novak, on behalf of the Labour Club, made this great statement that this Law is not binding on anyone, he is one of the statements of this Parliament that, we want to respect European energy policy, that our aim is to protect the environment but not to any of the public contracting authorities of the Republic of Croatia or the Government and that we have seen it through the procedure of 19 September when the law has already been directed to the procedure, nor to public undertakings owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are, in any way, the great contracting entities of personal vehicles or other vehicles of freight or buses, etc., etc., nor to local self-government or companies owned by them, imposes no obligation on the implementation of this law or reporting under the implementation of this Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So no one in Croatia is obliged to act on this for the time being. Therefore, we have also made it clear on committees, both on the Committee on Environmental Protection and on the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships, so that it would be good to at least give an indication of how much of the planned purchases must be, annually, it must contain the implementation of this Directive, the Directive and this law. If we had told the public transporters publicly, that we had told the public companies that it was one planned purchase of 20%, then they would have known that this Law had purpose. As the law is conceptd, it will not contribute to any results that would be on the trail of environmental protection on the one hand and will not remain as I have therefore said a dead letter on paper. And that this is best said by the Government's position in the introduction of this law, which says that it will not require additional financial resources to implement it. I think it's completely clear in itself. I would be interested in whether the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, when working on this law, worked to assess the financial impact and could see from these estimates the extent and the manner in which the government, for example, will, if late for this year, be able to obtain such vehicles which are in the wake of the implementation of this Directive, how much would the Government of such vehicles obtain to respect its own documents referred to in the Croatian Parliament. For this reason, we at the HDZ Club certainly support the government's intention to promote clean, energy and efficient vehicles in road transport, but from all this and from this law it is clear that this law will not be implemented because it does not commit anyone to anything and that in this sense it will remain a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50545	Thank you very much. We have replicas. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50546	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, you have said well in the end, it is obvious that this law will not be implemented and this is another one in a series of laws of this government that is passed just to say we have harmonised legislation further with the legislation of the European Union because two are the key things for this law to be put into effect. First, its provisions to punish those who do not have a satisfactory condition, but the key problem with this law is that it does not accept the existing situation, so it does not specify even the number of participants actually driving in public transport, their age, their average mileage and some assessment of how much it would cost to rebuild that rolling stock because if you do not have this provision, this priority in the public procurement process can be given to those who have some kind of bus opening up a lot of room for manipulation because someone who has 2 new buses and 50 old ones based on these 2 new buses can report to a public tender with nothing later than to commit it to what and how they will carry, first of all we talk about children. However, what I think is a special flaw and a special fouling of this law is that it is simply not said how much local, regional and regional self-government units and the state budget are devoting only from their segment for public transport, how much money they are, and that if they were to agree with those carriers, this rolling stock would look quite different in some way and then we could talk about the application of this law but if you don't have criminal provisions then unfortunately this law will remain only a dead letter on paper and another big space for manipulation in public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50547	It's called the offer just. Replication response, Branko Bačić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50548	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague Shuker with you, the Government seems to me at this time and through the assessment of the situation missed the opportunity to show how many vehicles throughout the entire public sector are being obtained annually, as much as possible in terms of financial resources both the state budget and the local self-government unit and the purchases in the next year or the next five-year period, as much as we can expect this law to gain success in that next period or in some medium term. It is also possible to point out that the units of local self-government, because there are certain cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia already act partly towards such green public procurement, already obtaining such vehicles, and it would be good for such examples to be highlighted. So there was time and time for the Government to point out such examples through this law, that more seriously, if I can say so, to approach this law, that, above all, and to assess the necessary financial resources, it would be known to all of us how much money, how much money the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government could invest and ensure that this law was implemented. I don't really have any comment on the possibility of implementing the law itself anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50549	New replica and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50550	Thank you very much. In your presentation, you have practically repeated what I have said is that this law is an advisory character, but you should bear in mind that through this other information you mentioned that the Government is going to purchase 2,000 of these vehicles, which does not respect this law or this provision. It turns out that the government is also aware that the advice it gives this law is actually bad advice and has no intention of sticking to it on its own, so it doesn't see it, I just hope they don't expect anyone else to act on something they themselves feel bad about. But in the end, you asked a good question to the Deputy Minister, or to the Ministry, whether the effects of this law were calculated, or whether an analysis of the situation was made. No, but this isn't the only law that's like that, and unfortunately, it's a common phenomenon that we have some form of fulfillment. We are making, we are a huge amount of law, remember that only before the entry into the European Union, we have brought a huge amount of legislation that was not inapplicable but in conflict with ourselves. We had examples yesterday, yesterday it was the same ministry, the Air Traffic Act, where even the termologically doesn't match real life. Not long ago we had the same law that okay, used some terms, the Law on Railways when it was, used some terms that let's get new at it. It's not new terms, but in this kind of traffic, there's something that's been used for, say, a hundred years, and now we've introduced another term that's been used for the same hundred years, but in another kind of traffic. It's obvious that there's just no hearing for what's done. There's something to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50551	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50552	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Novak, you're right. Yeah, you get the impression it's working, just to do something. How effective it is, how many such measures and such work are to gain success is another question. I said in my presentation that if the Government believed and believed itself that this law that proposed to the Croatian Parliament really meant something that it could contribute to the fulfilment of those energy and European policies 20-20-20 that it would contribute to a clean environment in the Republic of Croatia, then at the time when we are making this law, when we propose to the Croatian Parliament it would act according to the provisions of this law, and not on the one hand on September 2nd, it would refer to the parliamentary procedure of the law which it proposes, so it does not impose an obligation on the contracting authorities to act, and it does not try to be an example of others who should be the bonds of the Public Procurement Act on how to act. Thus, the government is losing its credibility and then how do you expect all those contracting authorities to act under this law when the person who proposes it does not act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50553	Thank you very much. And the third replica, Honored Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50554	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Bačić, all those who were in Brussels or in other European cities, saw, here is an example of Brussels Plaza de Luxembourg where you have, therefore, electric cars, where the city administration, so local self-government has purchased electric cars, you have a socket that you can use to charge the battery and you can rent and drive on this. It's for Croatia I think another fantasy like this that we'll be thinking about and dreaming about for a long time, etc. But what I was about to say is that the European Union, or the European Parliament, and the European Commission, continue to look for one balance and balance between car prices and car production purchases in the automotive industry and these to say environmental air pollution factors, either primarily floating particles and then carbon dioxide, which these cars release. And in this demand for balance, the spear is broken today in the European Union, and it seems to me that this law that is here before us is that there are no criminal and criminal provisions for public procurement, so organics let me say so conditionally a Colloquial car doesn't really mean anything as you have concluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50555	Here's a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50556	I thank Mr. President, my colleague Grubisic is precisely on the trail of what you are saying and when you set an example of Brussels and another European city in Croatia and this directive should encourage and give priority to these alternative fuels, for example, I told the hydrogen ingested oil gas. But what I want is to especially highlight biofuels. So, we and this law encourage vehicles that use biofuels to use biofuels would be the government's task and the Croatian Parliament's legislator to increase the subsidy for Croatian producers that produce biofuels, to encourage them to produce this alternative type of fuel in Croatia. But as the government has denied us its own laws just before I said when subsidies to biofuel producers in the Republic of Croatia were a significant reduction, and it would be good for the Ministry of Finance to report to the Croatian energy market operators this year to pass the money from the state budget that was taken from them a new year ago as their original income. And in this way, if we knew how much the Ministry of Finance invested and subsidized the producers of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia compared to 2012 and compared to 2011, the government would also show us how much and how it wants to implement this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50557	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament first, I would like to inform and ask you to take into account the apology that 7, 8 and 9 points in the agenda cannot be worked today because we do not have the appropriate representatives of the motionor, the proposing. They are officially absent from the country and the deputy and minister, actually in the country and the country. We'll do everything else in accordance with the agenda. We will see what we can unite, negotiations are under way to bring together discussions on certain points of the agenda. I'm asking you to consider that. So 7, 8 and 9 points are going to be postponed. We are now going to invite respected Igor, the Czech representative of the HDSSB Club, to present his debate on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50558	I would like to thank the esteemed President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. This proposal for a law on the promotion of clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport to Croatian legislation implements Directive 2009/33 of 23 April 2009. The aim of this Directive is to encourage the market for clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport, and in particular since this would have a significant impact on the environment on the vehicle market, which is produced in larger quantities such as passenger vehicles, buses and trucks, by ensuring the level of demand for clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport, which would be large enough to encourage manufacturers and industry to invest and further develop vehicles with low energy consumption, CO2 emissions and pollutant emissions. Member States should inform national, regional and local public contracting authorities or contracting authorities and operators providing public transport services to passengers of provisions relating to the purchase of clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport. Clean and energy efficient vehicles are initially more expensive than conventional vehicles and should seek to subsidise such purchases through certain types of incentives. In public procurement, priority would be given to vehicles that meet the new euro norms corresponding to the category of vehicle or euro standard for passenger cars, light freight vehicles, trucks and buses. In addition, vehicles using alternative fuels, such as hydrogen, ingested oil gas, compressed natural gas and biofuels, should have the advantage. Whether this law will become an example of good practice in the Republic of Croatia and whether the strategic objectives of the EU's common energy policy, the 20/20/20 policy, which sets a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions as a strategic goal, a 20% reduction in energy consumption and a 20% increase in renewable energy use to 20%, will be seen. Although our carriers engaged in public line transport activities as well as transporters carrying out truck transport of goods are barely able to bring an end to the end due to a lower volume of work, high costs and fuel and registration of vehicles with which their activities are carried out, I sincerely hope that this law and with the support of the State, they will find financial powers to restore their fleet and thus contribute to the protection of the environment as well as the safety of passengers using public transport services. Because we're aware of the average age of our buses. Our buses are 12 years old, 15 years old, and sure as hell the passengers in them are at risk. We know cases especially where children drive from home to school, where they breathed gases and were practically in danger of life. We believe that this law is an advisory nature and that the applicant in the assessment of the situation and says that there is no formal reporting obligation by Member States so far experience in implementing the directive is limited and comes down to individual examples of good practice in the Member States. The announcements from the Ministry of Environmental Protection are that financial support programmes for the supply of eco-acceptable vehicles for legal and natural persons are in place. Although we see how the Proposer provides for additional financial resources for the implementation of this law, we see that for the implementation of this law, the Proposer does not provide for additional financial resources. This leaves us only to see if the Ministry of Environment will still provide any support for the purchase of such eco-acceptable vehicles. In the hope that this law will indeed and live in practice, the HDSB club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50559	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50560	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Czechs, of course, that the directive as such is welcome, and I understood the goals needed to protect the environment in order, of course, to drive energy and health in order to say that it would be in use. But what I'm saying is, in reality, the situation is completely different. You're aware of that, and you and we are aware of that. And in this part of course this applies to those that are public procurement bonds but on the one hand we also have big differences in this area. On the one hand, we have a rolling stock that is probably these vehicles to Audi, these across the street, have certainly had exceptional performances and cost some 265 million kunas. But on the other hand, we have, of course, devastating data that lately imports of second-hand vehicles have grown so drastically that it threatens the car of selling houses. This puts jobs at risk, of course, in turn. Already insurance companies feel the consequences for the same reasons. And not to mention that part of these family farms that I've talked about before, the same way that they're simply in such a situation that they can't get those healthy and energy-efficient and naturally acceptable vehicles that could transport in those environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50561	Replication response, distinguished representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50562	Thank you. Well, my colleague, you've detected and explained this problem well. You come from a small environment just like me, and you must have noticed what kind of buses our students ride in. These are 15, 20-year-old buses and are ready for a rover and are rotten and practically ecologically unacceptable, nor are they safe unlike the comfortable new Mercedes taken in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, I don't know exactly when the situation is going to change, I'm afraid it won't, and I'm afraid that liners don't have financial resources to buy new vehicles that match and are environmentally acceptable. But there's a government that has the means to buy eco-acceptable vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50563	Thank you very much. We're going with the next club, the HNS club and respected representative Petro Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50564	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen. For the start of the HNS club will certainly support this law. This law is one in a series like some previous speakers and pointed out, one in a series of those laws that have been passed by an emergency procedure, which have been adopted under the imperative of compliance of Croatian legislation with the legal property of the EU and when you look at it and when you really see what it actually covers has in practical life in the Republic of Croatia and when you refer to the fact that it refers only to public procurement obligations, then it is true that this law itself will not change in many ways the picture of the subject it relates to but is the beginning in any case the beginning. Its intensity is to comply with the EU's common energy policy, which envisions a 20% reduction in energy consumption, a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions and also an increase of 20% of alternative eco-acceptable energy sources. This law has an open question in which I must agree with my colleague representative of the Croatian Labourists and I personally find it a little odd that there are no conjectures unless the bonds of this law adhere to its contents, but I suppose Mr. Deputy Minister will explain it. However, during the debate, a number of topics have been touched here, school bus issues have opened up, the issue of the state of our entrepreneurs dealing with the transport of goods and passengers on road transport has been raised, even the issue of the state of the Croatian village and agriculture machine park has been raised, so it is time to comment on some things. I'll start with agriculture. It is true that the picture of the machinery park in this context of Croatian agriculture is very charolic. It varies from the most modern tractors purchased and combined purchased through various incentive programmes in all these years preceding which the Resort Ministry has placed on the disposition of farmers from the most expensive and modern, environmentally acceptable, energy-efficient, sustainable and to those of the oldest absolutely inappropriate and actually tractors that make their owners more cost than benefits. However, this law will not resolve this, but this law opens up a new method of thinking and approach, and it is very likely that a whole series of other laws and sublegal acts in the future will be very similar or almost identical to the intentions of this act that we have before us. It is true that a large part of farmers today cannot buy a modern machine because we have not adopted something else, and this is not about this law but about the practice of common sense, which is the practice of introducing machine rings where the OPGs join and buy those machines and in a way that is most profitable and acceptable. A whole series of machines today modern in Croatian agrarian that have been purchased do not work with even half usability and thus these newly acquired machines, which is paradoxical in this situation in which Croatia is and the Croatian agrarian is not rentable. Why has this practice that has long been known in EU agriculture been missed in previous years, and it is also a matter of common sense that will likely be able to respond or should be answered by someone else. The issue of bus transport and the placing of this law of its content in the opposite position is true that we have a number of carriers that are currently carrying out public transport with inappropriate vehicles and that is something that must end up, of course having an understanding of the situation and with the ultimate effort and support of local self-government units and the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to public transport of children on school buses. But we can't access these things and the beginnings of good and positive practice in a negative way by sticking our heads in the sand like an owl. It is not the solution to give up the introduction of new technologies, to rationalize and cry over themselves. He mentioned a private import park or private persons of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it also varies from to. The fleet in Zagreb is more impressive and I can tell you much better than in many European metropolis. So when we're talking about it, let's talk about it on the basis of the truth, then we realize one truth that introducing these standards for now is only for public procurement obligations, and tomorrow maybe through some other laws and others, it's a matter of rational behavior. Criticisms are addressed to the government's account, though such a subtle criticism is sent to the government's account for the restoration of the rolling stock. Any vehicle that is now being purchased new than vehicles 15 years old at the start consumes 20% of the energy less. in each new vehicle, because of the fact that these are general standards in the EU, generally accepted, all new vehicles whether they are transport vehicles or private vehicles are vehicles in which technologies that absolutely correspond with these 20-20-20 imperatives are installed today. Therefore, sometimes, not only sometimes but in principle a healthy investment based on sound foundations is a matter of prosperity and a matter of rationality. We don't have to go to every investment on the floor. Hoping that this law will be the beginning of a new approach in this domain and that elements embedded in the EU's common energy policy will be integrated into other similar laws in the Croatian HNS club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50565	Thank you, too. One replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50566	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Baranovic, I agree most of the time with your thinking and especially in the part where there should be a good start and acceptable vehicles etc.. Undisputed. We're all up for it and environmental protection, etc. I'm particularly glad you're looking back on the problem of agriculture. You mentioned some, some modern machines, etc., but I assure you that this is a far smaller number than those that are almost more unusable to a far smaller number and that are not functional at all. And there's what I said at the beginning that an increasing number of them are out of use, thus protecting the environment. You have also called for common sense regarding the establishment of rings. I come from the middle where the machine rings and have certain beginnings and, of course, certain functions. However, it is safe for machines and mechanisms to fail and eventually requires a certain approach, but I would like to say that I agree with you when it comes to applying common sense in the field of agriculture. Of course, it is unacceptable and there is no reason to think about the village in the way the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Jakovina, also refers. All indicators are in favor of his relationship with it. All the indicators of milk production, of meat production, all the indicators are negative and he keeps saying never again, never a better relationship to the village. Well, that's unreasonable to me, it's for me towards the village a discriminatory relationship and of course that threatens with what I've said 10 times in this place threatening to break Croatian villages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50567	Replicate reply, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50568	Dear fellow Milinkovic, you made your impression, he is, of course, subjective as he will most likely be experienced by mine. Of course you took this opportunity to attack the Resort Ministry of Agriculture and the current minister but also you and the great size of the people in this room because I hold that smart people are coming to the Croatian Parliament, you are aware of the truth that no healthy, well-leaded, long-term economy can fail in two seasons, not in either. If things had been done right in Croatia's Agror for the past 20 years then it would not have been the situation in it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50569	Thank you, Your Honor. We have exhausted the list of club representatives in the Croatian Parliament who have applied for a debate on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. She's the first respected representative of Mirela Holly. She's not in the hall, she's losing her right to discuss this. The second is a respected representative of Damir Rilje. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50570	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with associate, colleague and colleague. So here's to this proposal for a law on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles, I'd like to say a few personal opinions. So here I am going to stay on the road what is said, nowhere around, on any other surfaces. Green public procurement for public legal authorities, therefore also for all applicants of the application of the Public Procurement Act, and in accordance with the Directives of the Council of the European Economic Community, the application of this law, the Public Procurement Act, is partly amended. In fact, of course, not a single problem I have to add at this point, which refers to the application of ecological criteria to road vehicles didn't start yesterday or started yesterday, it's a permanent problem, and there's always a particular accession to the European Union, unfortunately not and before that it couldn't solve, there's always been more problems, and you know, it's always been kind of going on the edge of the environment. It's not just this kind of application of organics, it's the use of garbage or waste water and stuff. I'm sure we're all in favor of applying regulations that can contribute to environmental protection. But in the proposal of this Act, the very fact that the law imposes a relative obligation on the purchase of clean organic vehicles with less CO2 emissions and other exhaust particles not to list them now is stated in the Law itself. Therefore, the purchase of the cheapest vehicles of similar characteristics for this type of procurement under this proposal now no longer needs to be done, so that they can or should be purchased, for example, more expensive vehicles. Another problem is imposed in the type and model of eco and hybrid vehicles whose market prices are not yet accepted at market prices. Namely, the problem of implementing the eco-category vehicle for different applications is raised. For example. Buses for transport companies, utility vehicles, trucks, etc., medical vehicles, therefore sanitary or other vehicles required by category for social, social purposes. The issue of vehicle renewal is raised here, and in particular the planning of funds for the procurement of new ones by individual public legal authorities. Of course, during this technology, eco-technology and hillside will become more acceptable at market prices, but by then more time will pass. We'll still be driving in some other vehicles. Of course if it's systematic... In some ways, this or that, with the help of the appropriate use of funding, does not reinvigorate in a different way as a single strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the vehicles in the rolling stock will also look different, so the structure of the vehicle on the roads. This, of course, can't happen on its own, as I've already said. Obviously, the question is, therefore, not bindingly applying this Law, which I mentioned at the outset. But there is no question of his use and good intentions. And, of course, we always have to start once and for all, somewhere we always have to start once and for all. Which doesn't mean we haven't started yet, which doesn't mean it wasn't planned yet, but here we are starting with one law. Maybe we should do it in the future, maybe not. The non-binding tone of this law points to an understanding of the inability of the current financing of rolling stock, at least to a greater extent. I take it so personally, I take it so personally. Who's actually going to buy eco cars and hybrids in the future, so we'd like everyone but certainly those who have the means. Of course this applies to public authorities, this will ultimately refer to all citizens because ultimately we will all have to buy together, that is, import more and more and better and more quality environmental vehicles in public road transport. And finally, I hope we can all buy it because the law itself is ecologically desirable and, of course, with the possibility of funding, and hopefully tomorrow and I believe in it, those who will be able to finance it and pay it, whether it's a society, and also individually, such a tone of law and such a meaning of law would certainly be a good support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50571	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the honourable representative Boro Grubisic and his 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50572	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is this law, which is not binding not only because there are no criminal and criminal provisions as most of the laws we are voting here and on which we are discussing but also because on page 3 it is written here, according to the European Commission's report on the application of the 2009 Directive, that is why there is no formal reporting obligation by Member States on the implementation of this Directive. So there is no need to report to Croatia, let's say. But the law as a law is useful in any case, and it is an indicator of where Croatia needs to be pursued and how to implement it if it is possible in any way given the social and economic situation in Croatia, public procurement of vehicles for public transport and all those vehicles that go into procurement through a public procurement system. The program five times 20 as someone said, it was three times 20 here, namely I have to say it's five times 20 because it's 2020, so it's another two times 20. So by 2020, the reduction in carbon dioxide, then the reduction in energy consumption by 20% and the production of alternative sources of energy, biofuels and other increases by 20% by 2020. It would be good if Croatia instead of reducing certain incentives and support for the production of biofuels, such as before, and it would be good not to reduce these support and to turn around in fact, and we also have good conditions, therefore both natural and all other, for the production of fuels that do not have the fossil residue, i.e. non-fossil fuels. In addition, if there is a need for information in Croatia, there are many innovators who have tried to produce cars and other vehicles using hydrogen, including the use of water even as fuel, so part of the water, I'm not saying that you can make a perpetum mobile. Many sought the help of the Ministry of Science and others to get the funds to complete their project. But in research and science, and mainly in this type of production of a non fossil fuel vehicle, they are very small. According to some statistics, the total investment in science is about 1% in the Republic of Croatia, so it is hard to expect that we as a country, an equal member of the European Union, and to take a place, regardless of having innovators who have received significant recognitions and rewards in their competitions throughout Europe, starting from first to third places, etc., but this remains only on attempts, although Croatia could take a significant place in the production of such vehicles or at least part of the production of such vehicles. That's one thing. Secondly, at Gjergai near Vukovar, where that silo that is, let's say, a historical monument, there's a biodiesel factory. He who passed through Vinkovci-Nushtar-Brshadin-Borovo-Vukovar knows exactly that he is on the left, so from Vinkovci factory biodiesel. What we did, so we reduced the incentives for biodiesel production and brought manufacturers into a difficult position, so we dimmed the production of biodiesel that also belongs to one of these fuels that are not fossil, which would be suitable for public and city transport. These are two things that Croatia has not helped, which it could. So one is to help innovators and another is to support those who produce fuel that is not from fossil residues. And then we expect those last 2020s, so 2020 is the way we are. I would say more about getting a vehicle if it were politics to talk, let's say it's a little bit political that 271 vehicles are supplied without such conditions as are prescribed by the European Union Directive. It was explained by the government, although in this situation I am more concerned about this social component of the purchase and payment of these vehicles than about the ecological. When I come from Slavonski Brod, about which newspapers, the media have daily reports of the amount of carbon dioxide, floating particles and all other hydrogen sulphur and all other substances, to say the toxic substances based on sulfur, sulphuric acid, sulphuric rain, and everything else, then I must say that public procurement of such vehicles in Slavonski Brod would hardly mean anything. Because we already have the saturation of all these substances that release both cars and Slavonski Brod is like Beijing, although that Beijing has a hundred times or 300 times as many inhabitants. So this one, I am more concerned with the inactivity of the government, the inactivity, the inactivity of the minister, not taking diplomatic measures towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, which makes us even troubles and for the Pelješac mainland bridge, and we are silent about the EU polluter. Both Croatia and Slavonski Brod are EU. We are silent, neither to the Commission nor to the Council of Europe, providing information on air pollution in Slavonski Brod and on the taking of measures by the European Union, when we already cannot or will not take EU action as it has taken against Russia in the case of the FDF. But it's not the subject of this today, but I have to mention it because I come from such a city that has actually become exactly like Beijing one of the most polluted cities in the Republic, if not the most polluted city in the Republic of Croatia. And it's not just about proving the toxicity of those gases. It's about the quality of life, the quality of life in that city. You can't take a child, a grandson for a walk, you can't hang your underwear on a stick because after your laundry smells, you can't walk past Sava with a married partner or anyone. You can't do anything about it. It's such a city that actually the quality of life in it is such that people leave it. Now, the town of Slavonski Brod, as someone said, the local self-government should carry out the procurement of non-polluting vehicles, and they, Slavonski Brod, mean nothing. Because we have obtained a refinery, i.e. we have obtained a refinery in the Bosnian Ship that cancels, cancels any attempt to introduce environmental public procurement for, therefore, the public needs of the existence of this refinery and for which the Republic of Croatia does not take action, so here I would say the city administration is not doing anything. In any case, the HDSSB club cannot be against this, because we are also in the European Parliament and the debate continues in the European Parliament, in the Ecology Committee of the Committee on Agriculture, in all committees that are in contact with this matter, the discussion continues between the price balance of the vehicle and the prices achieved on the market by the automotive industry with participation, i.e. the amount of fuel, the pure, non-fossile one in those cars, because it collects the real price of cars, i.e. buses, trucks and all other, the use of such fuels. Now, how much public procurement in a situation where the Croatian state, where the financial state stands, will enable the purchase of such vehicles, is indeed very, very questionable. In any case, the HDSSB club and it will personally be for the adoption of this legislative proposal, but let us hope and God help us reach these 20-20-20 by 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50573	Thank you, Your Honor. We have replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Branko Vuksic, MP, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50574	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm being distracted here, so I can't do it right now. Dear colleague Grubisic, you spoke of a very important segment. You said it might not be a topic, but you were talking about it, so I'm replicating it to you, which is the issue of Slavonski Brod, pollution from the Bosnian Ship, or the problem of a refinery that hasn't been solved in years. Now imagine that in France someone has such a refinery and is polluting the inhabitants of the first city in another country. It would be an international scandal, actually it wouldn't happen, it would be resolved immediately. What's going on in Slavonski Brod is destroying conscious citizens' health. Why do I say we're destroying? Because we're not doing anything, because doing nothing means helping those on the Bosnian ship do so. We have a similar situation that is not air pollution, but remember in Istria what is happening, what is happening on the Croatian Adriatic. The Italians consciously interfere with the TV and radio programmes in Croatia, the islands and the coast cannot watch Croatian television or Croatian television listen to the radio. And what does our country do? I don't know, we had a debate here in Parliament once, and that's when they said 1,000 protests were written. This is a concern for Croatian citizens, and I'm going to climb up, I can't stand it, but then we strengthen our muscles on irrelevant, irrelevant things, drilling into our chests to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. The interest of the Republic of Croatia is not to pollute the air in Slavonski Brod, not to endanger the lives of the Brodjans. However, it does not seem to be anything or too small.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50575	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50576	A colleague, Vuksic, does not need France. A Russian named Fadey's European Court of Human Rights sued Russia for a state refinery that was next to his house later, and his house was older, so than the refinery. And he got slow. You know why? To reduce the quality of life next to you, living next to that refinery. He won a dispute at the European Court of Human Rights. So Russian, not French. So much for the EU. And as for the refinery in the Bosnian ship, it's supplied with oil, Russian oil, so let's say the one with the dirty oil compared to Arabic, right? The Croatian state has even technical instruments to disable the work of this refinery, but 80 million kuna is more important to Croatia because of JANAF oil transport, it is more important to them than 80 thousand citizens of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area. That's another problem. And third, since you mentioned Istria, we have a great example of Plomina C on pure organic carbon fuel, Block 3C, pure coal. Now, that's the real environmental fuel in the modern time that this government advocates, and it pushes so hard that it also voted against Cain's County Assembly, is it, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50577	A new replica and a respected representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go, Your Honor. ... Join in, Your Honor, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50578	A colleague, Grubisic, spoke about the fact that local self-government units should worry about air quality in their area. I absolutely agree, and I think all the speakers here today have been saying that in public transport we should replace buses with more environmentally acceptable. However, we are all talking about environmentally acceptable vehicles, and no one is talking about the coherence of public transport. Namely, I don't know if you know that the county and local self-government units have so far driven their primary schoolers by public transport and since recently some county and local self-government units have replaced this public transport, the transportation of primary school students with extraordinary transportation. I'm asking you how long does it really take these new buses and the kids could have been driving as part of a public transport? Here I'll use it, here's the assistant, which is why local self-government units do it when all those kids from primary schools were able to drive by public transport and now we've got a parallel transport that clears up with old buses polluting the environment. So when we're talking about the environment, then we should worry about exactly that kind of thing, coordinating public transport, not just bus replacements with some acceptable new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50579	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50580	Thank you very much. In addition to this refinery we have on the west side, the southwestern side of Slavonski Broda plans to build and invest 400m euros in gas thermopower. So, the gas thermopower plant is drawn in all the city's management plans, and then on that southwest side we'll have sulphur products, sulfuric, sulfuric acid, floating particles of the refinery, and on the east side of Slavonski Brod, nitrogen compounds will come. So, nitrogenic acid, ammonia and all the others, nitrogenic acid, nitrogen rain enriched by nitrogenic acid, etc. And I really don't know if it's going to be like Hiroshima in 20, 30 years that Slavon ship is unhappy to whom neither is it, and you mentioned local self-government, which is important? Whether the important money is here or something, I can't judge because I have no arguments and no data, I haven't seen what it's about and what it's about. But here's the plan, I won't speak the name of the investor, he's private, right? And the pipeline via Banja Luka for Zadar is also one group connected to Russian oilers also planning. So, all in all, we're in Slavonski Brod. And as for school children, I agree with you, and that's a good suggestion, and it would be good for you to consider it further. Well, you're ruling, so I hope you spend the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50581	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the list of applicants to discuss this topic. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. Next is the final proposal of the Law on the promotion of clean and energy efficient vehicles in road transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 456. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 87 votes in favour and 45 abstentions have been passed by Law No. P.Z.E. No. 456 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50584	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and representatives of this House. Commission Regulation (EC) No 1606/2006 of 13 December 2006 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2009, p. 1). 181/2011 of the European Parliament and the Council on the rights of passengers in the transport of buses in other EU Member States from 1 March 2013 shall ensure a high level of protection of the rights of passengers carried by buses and comparable to other types of passenger transport such as air, maritime and rail. The Regulation regulates rules on the transport of passengers by buses primarily related to the following. First, the prohibition of discrimination against passengers regarding the conditions of transport offered by the carrier. Furthermore, the rights of passengers in the event of an accident incurred in the carriage of passengers by bus, resulting in death or physical injury to passengers and loss or damage to luggage. Furthermore, assistance for persons with disabilities or reduced mobility, minimum information to be given to passengers before and during travel. The rights of passengers in the event of cancellation of travel or delay and the processing of complaints against passengers. As a secondary source of EU law, the regulation is directly and fully applicable in the Member States, and each Member State is obliged to establish the competent authorities for its implementation. This law prescribes the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Infrastructure Transport as the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation and the supervision of the implementation of the regulations and of this law, the jurisdiction of road traffic inspectors and the roads of the Ministry of Investigation Control over the implementation of the Regulation, the manner of submission and resolution of travellers' complaints, the exemption from the application of the Regulation and the infringement regulation. In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, this law provides for an exemption from the application of certain provisions of the Regulation relating to the internal transport of passengers and international transport where at least one position is located outside the EU area for a period of 4 years from the date of application of the Regulation, i.e. until 1 March 2017, with the possibility of a one-time extension of the period of exemption. This means that in the Republic of Croatia the provisions of the Regulation relating to the obligations of passengers and other legal persons will apply. With regard to passenger rights in case of cancellation and delay, if the place of entry or exit is located in the territory of one of the Member States and the intended distance of transport is 250 km or more. Furthermore, as regards the determination and... no discriminatory contractual conditions and tariffs, in relation to the right of persons with disabilities to non-decriminal transport, in relation to the provision of compensation for the loss or damage caused by wheelchairs and other equipment for movement or auxiliary means, and in connection with the application of general rules on the provision of travel information to passengers, their rights and the resolution of advertising or objections.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50585	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to HDZ club and respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50586	Thank you very much, President. Your esteemed deputy with an assistant. This is the Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation No 181/2011 of the EU Parliament and is a very important law and regulation, but I think from this introductory explanation that the rest are left out very important parts, which are those that appear in Article 6 as an exception, which are very important for our road transport. We recently amended the Road Transport Act where we detailed the rights, obligations, the way in which bus operators are transported and all other users of that transport. However, when we go to the European regulations page and when we talk about what the EU is bringing us, there is, on this issue, the rights of bus passengers or bus passengers written next, I will read it to you and we will compare it to this regulation that we are now discussing and this explanation that we have received. "When you buy a bus ticket, you must not be charged a higher price because of your nationality or place where you buy a ticket. Other passenger rights in bus transport mainly relate to regular bus lines at a high distance of more than 250km starting or ending in the EU country. Some of these rights apply to all regular services. EU countries can exclude from these rules exclusively domestic regular services where a large part of the road including the intended stay outside the EU." And then we have a chapter cancelling the road or lateness. "If departure is cancelled or late, you always have the right to appropriate and timely information about what happens while you wait. If you cancel your trip at a distance of more than 250 km, which you have booked or leaving late for more than 2 hours, you will have a choice. You can get your money back for the map and if you need a free trip back to the starting point from which the bus started, for example. if the delay or cancellation of the road prevents you from fulfilling the purpose of the journey or if you are able to obtain transport to the final destination at the first time or at no extra cost. If you are not offered such an option of choice at this time, you can later complain and ask for a refund for a ticket or a refund worth 50% of the price of the map. If the duration of the journey is estimated to be a long distance more than 250km more than three hours, and the departure is more than 90 minutes late or it is cancelled you have the right to a smaller or larger meal in accordance with the time spent in waiting or delay, accommodation if you have to spend up to two nights at a price of up to 80 euros per night. Carriers are not obliged to cover accommodation costs if delays are caused by difficult weather conditions or natural disasters." Perhaps the most important chapter of a car accident, damage and assistance. "If you are injured in a bus accident during a journey of more than 250km you have the right to compensation. In the event of death, compensation may be requested by family members. You also have the right to compensation from the bus company if you are lost or damaged luggage or other personal effects in a bus accident on a journey of great distance. If necessary, the carrier will also immediately provide assistance, first aid, food, clothing, transportation and accommodation." And then complaints "If you feel that your rights have not been respected you can appeal to the carrier within three months of the date of the event. The carrier must react within 1 month and give the final answer within three months." What's the problem here? We have only implemented part of the regulation today. That's the part that's the easiest thing for us, it's some passenger rights, but it's also delayed to four years some possibilities or some obligations for the transporters, and we know what condition they've been in, and we've heard a little before when we've had a debate about the condition our buses are in, in what state they're related to internal lineage and what the regulation says. The regulation says that you, so if you would completely... and she has 34 articles of that 34 article I think we have now applied only 9 through this law and these other 25 have been delayed for four years with one more right to postpone them for another four years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Chapter 2 of that Regulation clearly states what the obligation of a car carrier is in the event of death. And there are those amounts where they are most often controversial today when accidents occur and they happen on buses. And we're coming into our legal system, and what happens then? They are all trying to escape their own responsibilities even though these damages are not as large as they are prescribed by this Regulation. The regulation signifies that in the event of a death in a car accident, the passenger bus amounts to 220,000 euros and must not be less than 220,000 euros can only be bigger. And for lost luggage or for some material damage of at least 1200 euros. What's the experience with us? There have already been bus accidents with fatalities, with injured people. And when they came these damaged, injured, those who lost loved ones in front of the justice system of the Republic of Croatia may not have had anything to call on. Now the same will not be called upon because we have exempt ourselves from the provision, we have exempt certain provisions of this Regulation and will be tried under the law of mandatory law. Mandatory relations, excuse me, where articles 664 to 698 have been resolved in the manner in which passenger transport should behave. Article 697 of that Law reads, here it is, I do not currently have it but it clearly regulates that these obligations will be settled in accordance with the legal practice in the Republic of Croatia. And what is then so far in some cases that have ended, which had their final right to provide compensation from only 40,000 kunas for a death or 80,000 kuna for permanent disability. When compared to this Regulation, there are clear and visible differences. Once again, I say let's run away from possible privileges that we have by entering the European Union by protecting a situation that is not perfect or not good at our bus transport. And because of that, it may be understandable to me why we're doing this, but I think that if we want to settle issues in road transport, especially bus road transport, that it's a question that we might have to impose, so some bus carriers find ways to behave in such situations. Because it may not always be a weather opportunity or something else caused by a bus accident, it is often a lack of attention from certain drivers or drivers. Recently, I read an article in a daily newspaper where a driver with two phones rides a bus 130 an hour on the highway, readers rebel because they photographed him and show the irresponsibility of such people and there have already been several examples this year. And why would they take responsibility off the passenger if we had the opportunity to apply such a provision? Because at some point in the case, God may not be in any way questioning the very existence of such a car house. Is that why, then, is that our contribution to better passenger rights? Or we'll come to our senses that we have the right to appeal to the carrier, so if he doesn't answer us because we're unhappy, then we're complaining to the Ministry. Then the Ministry will answer us instead of the carrier, I don't know how, I guess they'll ask why the carrier didn't answer, etc., etc. I think there was more chance, that we should have used all the benefits I tell us European regulations give us. Why aren't we ready for this, it's a policy issue promoted by the ministry or this government itself. If we really wanted this European Union and everything it offers, I think it would be good to help or protect the passengers in this way, if we are already talking about them. Because for this reason we would have the right to say extremely low damage claims that they receive under quite one other law if this regulation clearly tells them what is the minimum for the case of a death or an accident or for the injured. I think it would therefore be good if this regulation had been fully implemented. But that's the government's decision. Since this is, after all, one step in the right of travellers, a special person with disabilities, we will accept as a club. We'll be in favor of a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50587	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50588	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I just wanted to fill out my colleagues, Boric, that we were quick to forget the accidents, the tragedies that took place in the transport of school kids when they fell out of the wrong buses. Buses that orbit our roads and transport what pays both the state and the county and the municipality are able, I would say expenditure. Since the front end goes... and the back end across the street so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and the possibility of suffering is more than visible, that in broken means of transport where huge money is used, it does not provide a service adequate to what should be today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of this should also be regulated through these laws better, better quality, but also with greater compensation requirements for those who lead to an accident due to the failure of the rolling stock.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50589	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50590	Thank you very much. Well, that's why I was saying, Chapter 2 of this Regulation "Revelation and aid in the event of an accident" Article 7: Death or personal injury of passengers and loss or damage to luggage. Passengers, in accordance with applicable national legislation, have the right to compensation for death, including eligible funeral costs or for personal injury, as well as for the loss or damage of luggage due to accidents that occur in the use of the bus. In the event of the death of passengers, that right shall be granted to all persons who, under legal duty, have abstained or should be maintained. Paragraph 2: The amount of the deduction shall be calculated in accordance with applicable national legislation. Any maximum limit established in national legislation for compensation for death or personal injury or loss or damage to luggage in each case must not be lower than 220 thousand euros for passengers, 1200 euros for each piece of luggage. In the case of wheelchair damage, other motion equipment or auxiliary devices, the amount of compensation shall always be equal to the cost of replacement or repair of lost or damaged equipment. It is a very important article that could have been a benefit for us to enter the European Union and that we have applied it through this law. Unfortunately, we are not, and we will remain in the Law on Mandatory Relations, and then, in the judicial process, very different relationships occur. And of course we have what's worst of all, we don't have at least any material satisfaction for those who unfortunately don't lose their lives on the bus with their guilt. These people get on a bus in good faith, of course we all count on safety to the greatest extent possible, but when the liability of a car carrier under these laws comes down to a minimum again because we are counting all the time and what it will bear in relation to their overall business, and yet the victim is least protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50591	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is now the turn of the HDSSB, the club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50592	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. According to Boris, it actually turns out that the road lobby, the bus lobby, is being protected. The other day I had a chance to talk to one of the bus owners, he doesn't have a lot of those buses and says this, he arranged to transport his school kids to the county or anyone but it's only for a year. If he could reach a contract for, say, 5 or 10 years with the county, then he'd invest and invest because he knows he's got a secure job in 10 years. Although the number of children decreases from year to year, but the lines remain, I guess our villages and all the other bus lines will remain, and so will this country and we will continue to ride the buses. So the problem is complex, it's not that simple, so now we're going to buy a bus ticket and then we have the right not to God in the event of death get a minimum of 220 thousand euros or almost 2 million kuna. I was a medical expert in a number of cases where I was an expert in car accidents and there the court had a practice, a municipal court that in the event of a fatal outcome after a car accident when someone stepped on a zebra or outside a zebra, there was a fee of 200 thousand kuna for death. Any person who is related, close to relatives, has the right to compensation for the death of the person plus the cost of the funeral, etc., about 20 thousand, so a total of 220 thousand, depending on the ability of the lawyer. But in our bus ride when you buy a train ticket, the bus ticket is then mostly written and the conditions of passenger insurance on that bus during a drive in the event of an unwanted or unwanted event, in the event of a loss of luggage, and Mr. Boric said that this compensation is 40 thousand kuna in the event of death or 80 thousand kuna, depending on the degree of disability that occurs after a possible car accident. These are some of our realities and possibilities that are what they are. It's hard to expect, I don't defend the road lobby, I haven't even encouraged him in all these years since we've neglected the railroad, since we've neglected much cheaper river traffic and all the other types of traffic and traffic compared to road vehicles and road transport. But here they are from my first sentence, others and those in the situation as well as the entire Croatian society in a situation where they say they have a carburetor with buses, with the quality of the bus, according to Djakic, that they are going in the same way as the injured dog of the tripod, and so they are leaving. Children here and there by some counties, you know that they have fallen off the bus because of incorrect hydraulics at the door, in Požega, in Brod, in Virovitica, etc. I am, and I am, and I am in favour of stricter measures, for stricter regulations. In some details, our law that existed is even more rigorous than this regulation by the European Commission. Now what I was going to say, and here's Boric offered me for this opening part, is that here the good part of this regulation applies to people with disabilities, to people who are actually this regulation in this part, so road transport included what they say is an inclusion. In this part, when most of what this regulation says is that persons with disabilities are completely equal, therefore in dealing with other passengers in bus transport. Therefore, it is difficult to be against such a regulation and clearly the HDSB club will accept it. But there's something else. When we talk about these road accidents and all possible events that happen, here is when a man travels from Slavonski Brod to Zagreb you have in case of work, and it takes most of the years to work on highway A3 then you have about 20 km of roads in chess. HAC didn't try to cut the toll because of it, because you pay toll for a normal highway with 2 and a stop lane. No, they put you in one lane for construction and they would never remember that because of 20 km of sewing so I would say so in a colloquial way that the toll is reduced. Now we've moved the billing houses from Ignating the River to Jezjevo to the gas station in Žežjevo. The toll stays the same. But here are the citizens of Zagreb who have the opportunity to come to Rugvica without toll, and before they paid for it because of IKEA they moved the collection houses on Ježevje. Investment, super investment, they say, is worth it, etc. our state-owned company, so the HAC to which who gets it. You don't know it anymore, but you don't know it now. But good. Mostly, they are not only sewing and reducing the price of toll to Zagreb's cause. The problem is also delays in what you plan to do when you go from one city to another or to Zagreb which is why you are late for Zagreb and therefore there is no one to say any compensation, no compensation, no one to inform and count on it. All we can think of are Japanese trains, German Deutsche Bahn railways, which in a second or a minute exactly comes and charges that can be obtained from delays in Japan, Germany. In particular, the proposal for a law on implementation, partial implementation, pardoning partial implementation, I would say, in part, the implementation of the regulation was well noted by Boris that only 9 points were involved, so the partial implementation of this Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 February 2011 on passenger rights for transport, bus transport and amending that Regulation, by the final proposal of the HDSB club, will be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50593	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. The first one came to Josip Boric, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50594	My colleague Grubisic, and I repeat again. We have the opportunity to take one of the benefits of entering the EU and introduce responsibility and order into that system because the most painful part of the car carrier is the part called money, everything else we will sort out. However, we give it up even though it's something we could take, so let the people who want to deal with it be more than we have, here we have been listening to for several months this government has introduced aid, i.e. co-finance the transport of high school students. Recently I read yellow buses will drive schoolboys, so we are preparing a project that will be funded from EU funds, which should then be exclusively for the transport of schoolboys' children, primary school children, high school, etc. And by doing so, we'll reduce the transport. What's happening to us? The state has paid about 26 million kuna a month for the transport. The costs have already increased in this year to 32, and the amount in the budget is equal to or less than last year. Have we increased our relations? Have our conditions improved as a result of that increase. It's not that small, 6 million kuna. We have what gives the market, and that's exactly what bus carriers are using. I'll state the Crikvenica case. When the co-financed transport of secondary school children started, the show for the worker was shown monthly from Crikvenica to Rijeka 1200 kuna, and for the high school boy also five days a week, 4 weeks 1700 kuna. What did the carrier want? He obviously wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to make as much money as possible. I think that this regulation would give him certain opportunities to think carefully about what and how he will do, what kind of bus he will give, whether he will withdraw responsibility and his employees and increase security to an even greater level. I'm afraid we'll just stay here and talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50595	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50596	Col. Boric, it is interesting that the separation for the transport of school children from the ministry increased from 26 in 2012 to 32 million kuna in 2013, monthly well. And now look, I don't mind, I said in my presentation, that, therefore, compensation or that would already be said for God's sake, I say the loss of any life increases in relation to the current amount, but if we were to implement those European regulations, then 220,000 kuna is close, 220,000 euros is close to 2 million kunas. Now, don't give God car accident, no death, no disability because it would really cost a lot of the country in this situation and the carriers and everyone. I say, you can't charge anyone's life with any money. There's no money that can pay for a child's life or anyone else's. Everyone's got someone. No one was born alone, and no one will die alone, and always someone stays for him, and when he's born, someone always cares about him. Therefore, I regret that anyone cannot be charged with any money, and I wish that we would really apply this damage compensation regulation in Croatia, at least 220 thousand euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50597	Thank you. And the last replica of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with my colleague Grubisic about the safety of children in transport, transport. Unfortunately, we've witnessed incidents with tragic consequences, and I'm sure that's what's worrying. Of course, this information also concerns us that here is a short time ago when the school year began, and we witness every year to a small number of children enrolled in school, and it certainly worries. But also these experiments that take place in school, of course, are very worried. Here we were witnessing a one-way course, but suddenly the minister says 9-year-old education that way, and it certainly creates huge problems. Many technically are not prepared etc. Now, the announcements that schools, less of these district schools, all of us coming from rural areas have fewer schools that don't have five students are closing down. So they're gonna have to take a ride, too. And I ask what? With what, of course, is this technique, and who will of course be the burden again on the units of the locals and the second question of what? What kind of traffic? Well, we witnessed a short time ago, and here's the county from which I come the distribution of funds from these to ZUCs that my county has received the least funds, and the roads are in catastrophic condition. So, this is a question that we certainly need to keep in mind and the roads are in poor shape, of course, and the rolling stock that drives children does not contribute to the even development of Croatia and, of course, the equality of all those attending school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50599	Thank you, too. On behalf of the club of the independent representative of the Adriatic... And I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50600	Col. Milinkovic made it clear that the law has regulated the so-called state of Croatia as well. objective responsibility. So, if there's an accident because let's say a hole in the road or a slave or anything else that happened to be objective to ZUC or if the road is state-owned then the state is like the owner of the road, the one that takes care of that road. So there are county roads, both county roads, state roads, they're so classy. Clearly, there is also an objective responsibility of the transport company. But what happens every year in autumn is dramaturgy about the transportation of school children. And it repeats itself year after year. In particular, our County of Brodo-Posaviska is the one where problems always arise at the beginning of the school year for the financing of the transport of school children to Slavonski Brod because the county is 120 km long and stretches from Gundinac, Šamca, Vrpolja and all the way to Brodjevac, Bodegraja, Kukučana in the west. And that's 150 kilometers of length. Here, I guess we'll sort it all out somehow, and I guess we'll be getting better by 2020, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50601	Thank you. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, please welcome Mrs Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. In short, in the name of our club, we believe first of all that the inclusion of this regulation will contribute yet or rather be another small step in a decent attitude towards passengers as people. This is something that we generally have to work on in all areas of life, especially in politics. Recently we had a chance to see the driver, remember you all read which driving bus writes messages on two phones, overwrites from one to the other, drives the bus and despite the complaints of passengers does not care but continues to do their job. So it's believing something that's no longer going on in the future. My colleague Grubisic mentioned Japan earlier, so you reminded me, I didn't want to replicate it, but here in 2005 we were in Japan and my colleague Shuker was at the EXPO when we returned from Tokyo before there was an earthquake not particularly strong, certainly something went wrong and the train was late at departure but they came to apologize for it. So before we go, there's gonna be something a little late. I believe that will happen in Croatia someday. The most important thing I have come forward to support on behalf of the club is this regulation, that is, this law is a relationship with people with disabilities. This Regulation, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the UN Convention, which was signed by the Republic of Croatia on the Third Order, the fourth in the world and ratified, the Convention which is the largest and most important document on human rights in the 21st century and which covers all segments of life from that political to the rights of persons with disabilities and in transport, therefore daily life. I mention this because we have recently been witnesses to the implementation of different laws on the rights of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia that, for example, people who tried to make their lives better from the tram have been expelled from the tram. And the president of the Association for Blind Persons with Dog Guides was asked to leave the tram and it was happening in the heart of Zagreb. I would also like to ask my colleagues, Mr. Vice President, to provide me with the same conditions for discussion as the others. So one disabled blind person from Karlovac with the help of a guide dog was banned from getting on the train, so something that all the laws existing in the Republic of Croatia not only allow but also recommend proof that the laws were not respected. Therefore, the installation of this Regulation is certain that it can move things forward, if nothing else and this debate can make more people aware, that persons with disabilities have equal rights and that we all have to enable them to exercise those rights. So, in fact, today and through a speech on this law and this regulation, we promote equality, combat discrimination and, of course, the attitude towards others and different ones. This is something that must be one of the fundamental drivers in Croatian politics in general, so our relationship with others and different ones. If we do not agree with them, if we do not share equal values with them, we must respect them and give them all kinds of space. That's something that's important when we talk about people with disabilities. I particularly welcome these measures, which all those who do not respect the equal rights of persons with disabilities on carriage by bus and punishment. In my opinion, punishment should be something bigger, but this is a start anyway, so we'll see what's really going to happen in the future. And finally, since many have mentioned the transportation of students to buses, it is important to the school buses, of course, that they be buses suitable for the transport of school children for the transport of children, but certainly, in our work in the coming years, we allow all children who want to do so, so all the children who want to do so, in particular, to study further, to continue their education to have free transportation. It is very difficult in these conditions but also in the adoption of the budget and for the following year, in the adoption of the budget of cities and municipalities, I think you should primarily think about it. So on behalf of the club, I support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50603	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50604	The following is the final proposal for a Law implementing Regulation No. 181/2011. The European Parliament and the Council of 16 February 2011 on the rights of passengers in the transport of buses and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 455. The debate on the bill is over. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I find it unanimous with 122 votes for Law No. P.Z.E. No. 455 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50605	We move to a new point: - Final bill amending the Foreign Affairs Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 472 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his cooperation. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You've received reports. We have Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Josko Klisovic with us. Deputy lead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50606	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The government proposes one minor amendment to the Foreign Affairs Act in Article 66(1). We propose erasing the word "with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia". What's this about? This is an attempt to adopt a regulation on the interior order of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in line with the adoption of regulations in all other ministries, which is the prerogative of the minister as head of the ministry. So we propose that the minister adopts a regulation on the internal order of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, with the consent of the authorities responsible for official relations, which is the Ministry of Administration. So far, we have been faced with the situation that we must send every little change to the government and burden the government's agenda with things that it shouldn't be burdened with. Since we are the only ministry that in our lex specialis therefore the law that particularly regulates our activity has such a solution that any change to the rules on our internal order has to go to the government here we suggest that this is then deleted to be in the same situation as all other ministries and that we can then manage the ministry much more operationally and make changes to the regulations especially when they are technical or small, and we have very often. That's exactly how they dominate especially because of the different kinds of rotations that we have of our diplomats going abroad, going back, changing systematic jobs, changing job names. And even when the government adopts any change that needs to be implemented through the rulebook, then we have to go to the government again and ask them to agree on such a change. Here is what we believe is that this one technical change will further allow for increased efficiency of the ministry's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50607	Thank you too, Deputy. Does he want to take his word on behalf of the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club Davor Bozinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50608	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Representative of the Government. We just heard that today is on the agenda technical change of the Foreign Affairs Act. Unfortunately, we have not heard the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Policy because it has not met, and I think it is one of the most important issues of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament to discuss changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. He didn't meet because there was no quorum, because first it was said there was going to be a board meeting tomorrow and then it would be this afternoon, so this item of the agenda was supposed to be tomorrow, so it came, and then it was said it would be this afternoon and here it came a few minutes early in the afternoon. That's what it says about our work. About the work of the Croatian Parliament. This is the only Parliament I know of, and as you know, I've been in the European Parliament for a year and a half, where committees don't have a chance, they don't have time to discuss changes to the law. What's the matter with this change of law? A representative of the government told us that technical change is Wednesday, that it is only two articles. And yesterday it was two articles, so the debate lasted nine hours. As members of the Committee in front of the HDZ, we wanted to use the Committee's session to ask the proposer some questions. So here's what we're doing now, even though it's actually too late for that. Firstly, the question arises as to why the government is excluded, the government's consent from something that is its constitutional authority, which is to run foreign policy. Proposer representative said the foreign ministry is equating with other ministries. However, the foreign ministry as some other ministries, such as defence and home affairs, has so-called. Lex specialis that internal order of these ministries. Well, in internal affairs, there's a law on police. There is a Law of Service in the Armed Forces in the defense. It's a '96 law here. the year was scheduled for a whole series of issues and these are issues of legal matter to be resolved by a rule adopted by the minister with the previous consent of the government. In the service of foreign affairs there are, for example, two categories of officials working in the Ministry of Administrative and Irregular Affairs and those working in diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia. In this way, the legal regulations governing this topic are, on the one hand, the Foreign Affairs Act but the law has a broader dimension and has a narrow dimension. What I'm talking about right now is in the book "Diplomation as a State Service" by Dr. Zoran Piculjan, deputy secretary of the administration. In that book, he says there are a number of issues that are set, which fall within the government's jurisdiction, so in the constitutional jurisdiction of the government and the government on them gives consent. So it doesn't suck, it's not because such a system isn't prescribed, it's prescribed by the Constitution. Because according to what is proposed today, then there should be a provision in the Constitution for foreign policy to be co-created by the President of the Republic, the Government and the Minister of Administration. What the minister of the administration has with special conditions, with special regulations governing the diplomatic service. There were such attempts and I thought, there was also a notice from this government when it came to power that it would change the Foreign Affairs Act. You remember 2011. The ministry worked, developed, at the time the minister was Mr. Jandrokovic some proposal for the Foreign Affairs Act and sent it to the president of the Republic as a co-creator of foreign policy. So there will be no more President of the Republic, there will be no government, there will be only the agreement of the Minister of Administration. It is as if there is no Act of Service in the Armed Forces and that the Minister of Administration gives consent to the regulations or the Service Act. It's the same thing when we talk about police officers. Moreover, a government official here said this seems to speed up the process. I would like to point out that for the last time, the Internal Order Regulation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been amended 26. 6th Decision of the Government that the document dated from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was addressed to 18. Six. 2013 So the government should have, these are all public documents for 8 days to give consent to that proposal. I don't know what leads to the conclusion that the Minister of Administration will give consent in a short time. So the argument of the speed of regulation is definitely not standing. The second point of the Rules of Procedure of the Government states that, in this case, the Foreign Affairs Act should give its opinion to other bodies whose jurisdiction of the matter concerned. In this case, this means the opinion of the Office of the President, i.e. the President of the Republic and the Ministry of Administration. I don't know if that's the case here. So all these reasons that are stated do not stand and if these are not the reasons then the question is what is the reason. I quoted here the date of the government's decision on consent 26.6.2013 on the Internal Order of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and this is a public document that we can all download from the Government's website. Once we adopt this law, then we will no longer have any idea whether the Ministry has passed a new internal order rule. So the journalist who follows the government's work sees on the government's website, the rule has been changed and then asks for information on it. Now it won't be possible anymore because, of course, the Ministry doesn't publish on its website the documents it brings. So the question is, what's the reason? I may be wrong, but again I repeat to me as the committee responsible for this issue we have not had the opportunity to discuss this, which is the function of the board. I will repeat, we will discuss the European affairs and the role of the Croatian Parliament tomorrow. In the European Parliament you have globally for weeks you know what you will be doing for the next five years. Within a few months you know what the subject is, you have all the materials. This means that the entire public, not only parliamentarians, not just MPs, can be informed of what their job is. We haven't done our job today, we've been paid to give our opinion, especially on this committee, let's say there were people sitting there who were former foreign ministers, so they were dealing with this. We've been taken away from that possibility, and now we're being brought here, entering a possible conflict with the promoter, that's not intention. We intend to have a good law, but we won't have one. It may happen, but I'm not sure because we haven't discussed these questions. The constitution says the government is leading foreign policy, now the government is no longer regulating part of the foreign policy relating to the appointment of diplomats, their special rights to communicate between diplomatic missions, to a whole series of issues. The government is now excluded and there is the possibility that, or the obligation of the Minister of Administration to decide on it, that it gives its consent. I really can't understand it, isn't it our goal to win and bring the document, the law, whatever, the best we can, to give the citizens who pay us the best legislative service. They think that's why they sent us here, and we can't perform an elementary function, talk about this, on the board, we don't need the public, we all know each other. Let's see what kind of repercussion he's got. If we're touching the Constitution, whether we're touching the law or we're touching the State Trade Office that we similarly transferred to the Foreign Ministry last week, we had no idea why. The office that strengthened the service, the economic diplomacy, and no one from the Foreign Ministry then came here to tell us why that office was. This isn't good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50609	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. Dujomir Marasovic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50610	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. My colleague, you wondered why the government here was excluded from the work of de facto jurisdiction regarding the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and you wondered what the reason was and you said you couldn't possibly understand what was going on. I feel like a replica to explain it a little bit. You said everything, and I don't think the government is excluded here because by a healthy logic everything is still going on within the government and the Prime Minister can do what he wants in the Foreign Ministry. This is where my colleague doesn't rule out the government. Here, the Prime Minister and the Government excludes the president of the state of Josipovic and to the Croatian public, the Croatian people should be told. So, at a small door, the powers of the President of the Republic are kind of diminished. Whether it's good or bad or it needs it, it doesn't have to, we can talk about it one way or the other. But that's it. And that's the thing inside the ruling coalition and president of the state, but this is about it. So the Prime Minister controls the president of the state in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50611	Thank you. We have a colleague Bozinović's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50612	My colleague Marasovic, what I'm saying is that this is what we're talking about today. It could be some kind of Lex specialis. There were attempts both in 2005 and 2011. This government has announced that things will be prescribed by a new law. This is, by my deep conviction, a step back. So, instead of building up the law and I would love it, I would support it, as I would support Mr. Klisovic in these initiatives related to economic diplomacy. But we don't have the information. We don't know what we're talking about. We're being brought before a done act, and when you're brought before a done act, then it's normal to have doubts as to why something is done the way it's done. And of course, then you can have your comments to Mr. Marasovic that he wants to shut down either the president or the government or I don't know who. We're needlessly creating some kind of public doubt or here amongst the MPs, which is actually the meaning of all of this. We have time to thank God, we could discuss all of this in detail. Well, we who have some experience would help colleagues who also have experience, who also in the former government have been acting high duties in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to give this country a quality law on foreign affairs, and not now we have a situation that the '96 law is. continue with the fact that what we're going to do about the internal order, we're going to know more only us in the ministry, or you in the ministry, and no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50613	Next replica of Jadranka Kosor, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50614	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, when these small seemingly changing but naked completely and then fit into the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the law, then we come to the fact that if the Government of the Republic of Croatia in general is exempt from making such important decisions, then we come to the fact that this amendment is actually against the constitutional and that when this law enters into force, each of us can also request an assessment of the constitutionality before the Constitutional Court. It's something that's not good. The Constitutional Court became a place, the other day in the report, after the prime minister's report said here, that the Constitutional Court is becoming a place to fix and where more and more citizens are turning as a place trying to fix the gaps in other pillars of government. That's not good. However, an explanation of why the law is passed by emergency procedure is so I almost dare say funny. Thus, the newly created environment for strengthening economic diplomacy. In fact, it is a new environment, nor will it, of course, be strengthened by this change in economic diplomacy, and it is certainly one of the facts to be taken in this debate. And finally. Kola Bozinovic rightly warned of a problem that is permanent, which is not only about the adoption of this law, which is the position, status, reputation of the Croatian Parliament board. The boards of the Croatian Parliament today almost have no important function. It should be a place as in other parliaments, the position of the committee is increasing, of course, throughout the world, especially in the systems of parliamentary democracy. There are decisions, there are laws and committees that are incomparably more important than in Croatia. The problem we face every day is the lack of quorum. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50615	Time. Thank you. We have a colleague Bozinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50616	Mrs. Kosor, if I hadn't mentioned it by accident, it would have made it a little more clear to the Croatian public, and we here too, what we're talking about. Then when we all saw Mr Mimica's hearing as a future commissioner, then when some of our observers were screened and the speeches of our observers were exulting in the public. I am talking about the European Parliament. It was all board meetings. So 90% of the job is being done on boards just because the stuff that comes in is getting more and more complex. The European Parliament has been sitting on committees and clubs for three weeks. There's only one week to go to Strasbourg where the plenary session is. That's about the ratio of three to one. And we've come to the point that what we can't ask on the board, because obviously it's not the business organizer that we have to open up in plenary sessions. I am sure that a lot of the misunderstandings that exist between the proposings would be resolved if we were to discuss some things in time, if we had time to prepare ourselves, if the public were interested, and she had each of these issues, if she had the opportunity as she was given in the European Parliaments to plead, to lobby, to give her opinion. Like this... we just get in trouble and don't leave an impression, I apologize for that, but we don't leave an impression of a body that works with dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50617	Thank you. And the last replica, Davor's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50618	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I felt the concern in your voice when you spoke on behalf of the club about this law, and I believe that it is not so much related to the fact that according to this proposal, the minister of the administration will also be a co-creator of foreign policy because it makes more sense than that, especially when the minister by profession is a mathematician to do so. But at the same time you spoke about your experience in working in the European Parliament, if I recall correctly, you said that five years in advance the topics of the agenda and the dates when each item would be on the agenda, so I wanted to actually refer to the part taught by today's experience. Today, we skipped three agenda points because I suppose, on behalf of the promoter, the Deputy Prime Minister, second or third, I do not know which one in order, Mrs Opacic, could not have come to Parliament. Because in the European Parliament, you are probably no one who needs to talk can allow it. But in this House it is possible. And that is why we have said that we are losing the system of parliamentary democracy in general by the government's behaviour in relation to Parliament, which is still in line with the Constitution. It is likely that no one in Europe can allow freedom on the day when it is necessary to talk about the points of the agenda to report that it cannot come, so it is a problem and how the working bodies will work, of course it is a problem and how the plenary session works. But it is only an argument in favour of what we have been saying that the government is treating this Parliament and how the ruling majority allows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50619	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50620	I'm going to explain a little bit what you were talking about as a replica. Without a representative of the European Commission avoiding coming to the European Parliament, he would not have thought of it. At each plenary session of the European Parliament, the President of the European Commission is opening. So, every month that week when the session is in Strasbourg, the President of the European Commission speaks. Commissioners, let's say some level of our ministers are on all committees, no deputies, with all due respect, are on board. Why? Because when the minister goes, or Commissioner, he must be absolutely prepared. And it is a guarantee that the document to be brought will be the best possible at that moment. We don't have such a guarantee here. I agree with my colleague, Mlakar, with this remark addressed to the Government, but let us also refer it to ourselves, and let us ultimately put it at the top of this House of Highs on how this work is organised. When I'm asked by diplomats how we do, believe me, I can't be surprised that it's possible that a proposal comes in one day to discuss it, to vote, and if Friday is still to come into effect. Well, that's impossible anywhere. Well, we have to look into each other's eyes and admit it to each other. And that is why the Parliament is rated in the Croatian public as it is assessed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50621	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary deputy, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50622	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to answer one fundamental question that has been raised here today, the distinguished representative Jadranka Kosor said and said that it is an anti-constitutional change and the esteemed representative Bozinovic explained that the government is leading foreign policy and that in these things we are making it impossible for them to lead foreign policy. It is true by the Constitution that the Government is leading foreign policy, that the Government is also leading internal policy under Article 112. The Constitution is run by foreign and internal politics. No ministry, except the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has the obligation to send its Internal Order Regulations to the Government. Does this mean that the Government is then disabled in the conduct of internal policy because the Ministry of Finance or Internal Affairs or the Economy does not send its Internal Affairs Regulation to the Government? A rule that is actually a sublegal act that regulates the home order of the minister's own house. So, I don't think so, and I don't believe the HDZ deputies think so either, because otherwise, they would definitely change their legal decisions in previous mandates and impose an obligation on all ministries to give their internal order regulations to the government. But why are we sending for the consent of the Minister of Administration? Well, because that's what the Civil Service Act requires of us. Article 40(3) states that each ministry must refer to its Internal Order Regulation to the Ministry of Administration. And we just do that. The rules contain a whole series of provisions that are important for official relations, and the Ministry of Administration is a central state body that cares about it, which has it in its jurisdiction. The diplomats are just civil servants, they're nothing more than that or less of course. Therefore, the things we are working on in our Internal Order Regulation concern, for example, the way in which the terms of the use of annual holidays, the conditions for the conclusion of contracts on the performance of administrative, technical, auxiliary affairs with the receiving countries, the schedule for diplomatic calls after return, etc. So a number of issues concerning official relations for which the primary competence of the Ministry of Administration, but of course if there are specialities, they are also regulated in the special rules of each of the ministries, whether it is the Ministry of Defence, Foreign Affairs or Home Affairs. Here are briefly the reasons why we don't think this is an anti-constitutional proposal why we don't think the government is exempt from taking foreign policy unless it gives consent to the Internal Order Regulation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and why we think that only the Foreign Ministry is being brought into the same line with all the other ministries in the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50623	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a replica of your exposure. Davor Bozinović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50624	Mr. Klisovic would be right if there were no Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. You say the government runs internal politics. is, but there is a Law on Internal Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and there is a Law on the Police, there is a Law on Defence, there is a Law on the Service of the Armed Forces. That's why the Foreign Ministry didn't draft a law on diplomatic service, but these issues are special conditions not what you're talking about. This refers to the part that is administrative, irregular affairs in the ministry. But the question of the conditions for diplomatic calling, the timetable for diplomatic-consular representations, the question of communication between the DKP between other authorities of the administration, so it's all regulated and regulated by this regulation, that's something that should be lex specialis. Since no such lex specialis has ever been adopted in order to preserve and respect the constitutional function of the Government under the Internal Order Regulation has always been given the consent of the Government and that is the difference. So here you do not equate the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs with other bodies with other ministries, but you separate it from a group of ministries such as defences, such as the Ministry of Defence, where special conditions, special jobs were regulated by special regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50625	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister. Before we go to the new agenda point, one clarification to our colleagues, Bozinovic. So the Rules of Procedure don't limit the debate at the plenary session unless the board has held a debate, and this debate has been held in front of a far larger auditorium than the board, so I think it's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50626	Final draft law amending the Foreign Affairs Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 472. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 33 votes against and one abstention was passed by the Law amending the Law on Foreign Affairs in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50627	We move on to: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Commission for Public Procurement Control, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 474. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You've received reports. With us is Deputy Minister of Economy Mr. Allen Leveric, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50628	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure with the Final Proposal of the Law. The State Commission is an independent and independent state body responsible for resolving complaints concerning procurement procedures, concession procedures and procedures for selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects. The State Commission shall submit the defendants' proposals for infringements prescribed by the Law on the State Commission and other regulations governing the area of public procurement. The state commission has 9 members, of which 1 is president, and 2 are vice presidents, appoints them the Croatian Parliament on the government's proposal for a period of 5 years with the possibility of another appointment. As known to 23 February, the Law on the State Commission on the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure was adopted. What is very important is to point out that the 2012 State Commission report averages 59 days, with 11 billion kuna being blocked on average. It is precisely because of these changes in February that these 9 members were established to reduce these procedures and days or to resolve the proceedings as soon as possible. The Board of State shall decide on the legality of the procedure, the action, the failure of the action, the decisions taken as individual acts in those proceedings until the legality of the public procurement contract and the framework agreements concluded without the procurement procedure. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement corrects certain legal technical failures in the article governing the salaries of members of the State Commission, stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the coefficient, determines the basis for the calculation of the salaries of a member of the State Commission, deletes the deadline within which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to propose a discharge of a member of the State Commission to which the term of office or appointment of a new member or re-election is to be laid down and the conditions relating to their appointment are amended. It enables precisely these changes to enable the effective work of the state commission and its composition. The reference year shall be taken in 2005 when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement of the EU Republic of Croatia enters into force and the opening of accession negotiations shall begin an intense period of adaptation of national law to the acquis of the EU. By adapting the conditions for the appointment of a member of the State Commission relating to the number of years of work experience required for the appointment, experts at all levels that have spent their working life in the dynamic system of adapting the legal rules of the Republic of Croatia to the legal property of the EU shall be allowed to be approved for members of the State Commission. In particular, it should be pointed out that when assessing the comparison, they shall take the conditions for the appointment of judges of criminal, municipal, commercial and administrative courts. I propose that this bill be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50629	Thank you, Deputy Minister. On behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50630	Thank you very much, Vice President, I welcome the representatives of the Resolute Ministry, the Ministry of Economy. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure with the Final Proposal of the Law which he felt was also important. The State Commission is independent and independent but we often see that the appeal procedures are long to be pending, so we are interested in the HDSSB Club for the length of waiting for answers to individual units of local administration or institutions as long as it is the longest time to wait for a response to a particular complaint. Because we're all witnessing that in the public procurement process we have more and more of them. In 2011, nearly 31 billion kunas, 2012. 39.3 billion kuna in public procurement procedures. But what awaits us is the entry of Croatia into the European Union of 1. 7. that we will have more and more procedures in these public procurements where we will not be able to waste time and wait for individual complaints and their answers to wait for months. Because we know what deadlines are in each process both for public procurement and for the implementation of the process itself of implementing certain projects. I will tell you the example we have now in Osijek, it is a project of wastewater treatment project of 72m euros where the European Union has limited us with a deadline for implementation and for the implementation of all N+3 years, N means the first 6 months for the implementation of the public procurement process and 3 years for the implementation of the project itself. For this reason, I expect us to have the same problems in other local administration units. Therefore, with the entry into the European Union, I believe that we cannot wait and cannot hesitate at that time. It is evident that it is also trying to reduce the conditions required from 10 to 8 years to participate in the decision-making process. I believe that experience is much needed but also in Croatia there are still few experts in the public procurement system and it is known that these people cost. Therefore, in the units of the local administration, I believe that we should narrow down the space equally for the length of the appeal procedure itself. And it is precisely non-discrimination, equal treatment but also transparency of public procurement that is mirrored both by our economies but also by the European Union. Therefore, the European Union and Chapter 5 were very clear, as was the directive. But I think that by easing the conditions from 10 to 8 years, we're not doing enough, but we're actually going through one reverse process. I believe that experience is much needed in people who decide on the public procurement process itself. Therefore, the HDSSB Club says that the 10th annual experience in the public procurement process is necessary. Because it's those people who decide on public procurement, who decide on concessions and we know in public private partnerships that they didn't have much to decide on because in Croatia there were almost no realized public-private partnerships and where they turned out to be bad. Therefore, it is a significant impact on our economy but also on the European Union's implementation of the projects themselves. Therefore, we ask the answer to the longest public procurement waiting. But we also suggest that we remain on the 10-year experience needed to assess certain public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50631	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one is Miss twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50632	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bubalo, I agree mainly with your debate. But in the replica here, while we're talking about public procurement and this bill of law, you've probably heard that Minister Vrdoljak ordered 40 tonnes of pâté at the price of 7.7 kuna, which is 2 million and 200 kuna. That price of pâté was taken because of its expiry date. And there's also a quick competition, who's been controlling it? The state certainly isn't. This means that what's due to the state's longevity is being bought neatly, expensively paid, where's he going with it? It is known what foods are, what are in stock and what is done with these foods. Well, it's also a problem getting these 271 cars. It's a problem to get smart phones. Here, I really don't know what this government thinks about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50633	Thank you. We have a colleague Bubalo's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50634	Thank you very much. Here's your colleague's answer to your replica, too. Control is important in the process of obtaining but also later. If Minister Vrdoljak ordered a pasta with a expiry date, then it is certain that it should be answered and the message is very clear there. But also in the case of the purchase of certain items, we believe that the control and the subsequent implementation and control of the agreement as well as the quality of the goods must be established in an orderly manner. Therefore, the revision should also do its part of the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50635	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50636	I thank Mr. Vice President, so colleague Bubalo from your debate shows the importance of the Commission for public procurement and, above all, of the means involved. And it's certainly important for all of us here and it's important for you to have time-outs, and God forbid it's that deadline that the Ministry gentleman was talking about, that it's 59 days. In reality, it's completely different. You were talking about the part about funding from the European Union funds, and we are also aware of how long and difficult it is to come to this at all, and when we come to that, of course, it is related to certain deadlines and certainly makes it maximum. Another thing that is equally important and important to us from local self-government units, we, in these circumstances after all the burdens that have been put on our backs, are torturing us of course for what kind of investment to make and secure this financial framework, and then in these circumstances come those professional complainants, the mourners who hit right or wrongly. They always complain, they crash, etc. And that, of course, creates incomprehensible problems for us, which my colleague Shaw told us about a few days ago in this House of Commons. And in that part, I understood this part that this space was kind of narrowing down to the units of local self-government, so I'm asking you to explain that part of how you thought about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50637	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bug, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50638	Thank you very much. Here is exactly why you mentioned professional complainants well, which is why it is important that deadlines are just about to be limited if we have professional complainants that don't cause problems in the realisation of individual projects because just because of such professional complainants we often have situations that something that has not been realized in the financial year is precisely because of professional complainants. For this reason, it is precisely the answer to the appeal and deadlines that are significant, also because nearly 40 billion kunas are twisted in public procurement. Therefore, there are people who want to stop projects but can't and can't happen in European funds. Since Croatia entered the European Union, I believe that it is precisely the priority in these complaints that these projects must be, but also by the manual number it is evident which complaint is in order. Therefore, I believe that speeding up this process if necessary and hiring new people should not be a bottleneck for the realisation of European projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50639	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you have experience of course from local self-government which is obviously in this time that the government in Croatia is the only investor in these projects that appear and of course local self-government has the most problems with public procurement. You said the state commission is independent and independent, it says in the law. I don't know, I don't know if, I don't know if that's how it works, probably, but it's a little surprising when your public tenderer says you're gonna get a solution in three days, and then you get a solution where the decision is annulled. Little does that cause doubt in practice. You also said that it was observed here by Mr. Deputy Minister that there are few experts, that it was likely that part related to this reduction by the number of years of experience for the appointment of members of the commission. So as it may be, we change this Public Procurement Act so many times that people don't arrive or prepare themselves, and now imagine what are the problems where you need to conduct public procurement procedures because people also have to educate and prepare. And we said if we had to, we should hire new people. They don't need people to hire, they need to be redistributed. I simply cannot believe that in all these state services among people educated, there are not enough people who should be redistributed to a commission that obviously blocks the investment system, blocks the economy and thus speeds up the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50641	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50642	Well, here's a colleague who said that the state was one of the biggest investors, and we had the opportunity to often listen and watch about Zagreb Holding which one of the biggest suppliers was in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the deadlines of the appeal are important. There are few experts, whether to move from place to place, it's important to streamline the costs. That's for sure that they'll decide the people in the Secretary-General, but it can't happen to be exactly the narrow throat of public procurement control. Therefore, that part should be accelerated, but also redistributed if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50643	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50644	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister. Here, when we talk about this amendment to this law, let's not make the impression that the whole law is changing. This is where we passed this law in this High House in February 2013 and here with these amendments and additions it is actually about legal-technical changes because it has pointed out that this law has certain shortcomings or perhaps misunderstandings. What is important is that the Board of Appeals for Public Procurement is that it is a permanent and independent working body acting in relation to the resolution of public procurement complaints. What I would point out is that it is very important for the Public Procurement Commission to have a direct and direct impact on the economy. So what the colleagues are in replicas and what Bubalo said in his debate, that the deadlines for resolving the appeal must certainly be much shorter because in a direct way we will help both the economy and help certain flows. What I would say is that in these amendments, they relate in fact to the fact that the Government determines the coefficient and determines the basis for calculating the salary for the members of the Commission, a permanent working body which has not been clearly visible in the current law. This is what we think is right and also changes and additions concerning the appointment of the State Commission for Public Procurement, to appoint 9 members of which are one president and 2 vice presidents, of which 4 must be legal professions and others with a graduate university study or a specialist diplomatic study of natural sciences. This is also what we think is good and that in terms of the conduct of duties for members of an independent State Commission it is also very important that these deadlines are reduced, that there are no higher conditions, stricter conditions than for the appointment of individual other bodies in the legislative authority of the Republic of Croatia. We think it's enough here that after a final study of the legal direction, a passed judicial exam for at least 10 years in the working profession of which 3 years in public procurement. We believe that these are persons who are certified and who can make good decisions. It's for the president, and for the other members of the two years, or 8 years in the profession. We believe that these changes are correct and necessary and that, in any case, the effects will be much greater. What should also be highlighted when amending these laws that the long-term resolution of complaints before the State Commission certainly causes a huge dissatisfaction of economic operators and contracting entities at all levels, seriously holding back all projects, processes but most importantly seriously holding back and economic infrastructure projects. The colleagues said in their discussions that you have almost and professional complainants who complain about all decisions and significantly halt and develop units of local self-government, significantly hampers investment because these procedures if they are long and if the disputes are certainly significantly affecting the state of the local self-government unit, and automatically in the Republic of Croatia as well. Since the number of members in the State Commission has also been increased, we believe that these deadlines for resolving complaints will certainly be much shorter. The Croatian People's Party Club will support amendments and additions to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50645	Thank you. We've got a few replicas, the first one's Branka Hrga. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50646	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Mandic, it is clear that every improvement and this which is offered here is good and that in principle no one has said that this is not some improvement. But I cannot agree with the finding, although I would like you to be right, that this improvement of the law will speed up the process of resolving complaints under the Public Procurement Act. I'm afraid there won't be such a big effect, and everyone would want it to be. And it's also clear that it doesn't change the whole law, it only changes tiny little changes. Although I said earlier that very often the Law on Public Procurement is changing, I think it may be necessary and necessary yet another amendment to the course of the law, a final amendment. In fact, here in my small town of Križevci, we have a lot of these projects from EU pre-accession funds, and I have to say that it is much better, much easier, much simpler and faster to conduct competitions according to the procedures prescribed by European legislation. So much faster to get to the contractors, much easier to get rid of. In principle, it has been impossible for those professional under quotes "insultants" to crash the tender, not to allow investment. So I think maybe you should think about it. And here I would like what you said to happen, so that this amendment affects the Commission to speed up the processes and that these appeals processes won't be longer than some 30 days which would actually be good to get rid of the law, that after that deadline they can't even be obvious anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50647	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50648	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy. Well, colleagues, I almost agree with you 100 percent, but here we have two interested parties. We have an offerer and an investor. With this law, we place every bidder in an equal position to have the right to complain and what we consider to be good. Since we in our society all like to abuse the Commission's Institute of Appeals, we also abuse certain contractors of the work, professional complainants try to destroy the offer and in such an indirect way damage and the Croatian economy, damage and development of the unit of local self-government, damage and society as we reduce the number of investments. What was evident from your replica and from my presentation was that these deadlines of appeal should be reduced to the least possible measure, because we cannot put in a democratic society that is right and the priority unit of local self-government or bidder. Therefore, this institute should exist and it has its own justification, but normally, it is all about the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Commission for complaints that loses meaning if it is longer than 60 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50649	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50650	Thank you. We talked about professional complainants and in these previous discussions before you, and here we are. But I must say, judging by the experience and knowledge that I have so-called. agreed bidders, which then through mutual arrangements, clearly are secret agreements, affect both the price and everything else. So, and that's the problem that we're keeping quiet about here except and we're talking about professional complainants that extend the deadline for investment, so they're blocking and blocking the investment process. But I think that a considerable amount of damage in Croatia was caused by this agreed, as was once an agreed economy, and this agreed offer which I would almost say is common and is applied in a large number of offers, i.e. public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50651	Thank you. We have an answer. Comrade Mandic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50652	Thank you very much, fellow Grubisic. So if we're looking at the complainant's trend since 2008, that was somewhere in 2007 at 2008. 62%, 2008.-2009. 39%, and in 2013 34%. Yes, I agree that you have these professional ones and that we and this part of the public procurement have been brought down to the lowest possible extent. There goes the lowest price, and then we get that high school center in Vukovar for four years doesn't open up, the insurance money, the bidders were the best, no responsibility, no job, nobody's guilty. What we should certainly do in further work and adapting our legislation to the real state of society see if there are certain professional bodies in the ministries, professionals who know about it according to some... costs that the price can achieve. Because you can't achieve the price of adaptation and building a school that even the least educated person can't do that. Who pays for the damage when it's not done? So this is, I'm still standing on that the State Commission is very much needed, it needs to speed up its work, but it needs to deal with this minimum price. Because someone can't go with the dumped price below the real prices so that the facility doesn't end. Because I'm sorry, one generation of students in Vukovar lost their optimal schooling conditions. For four years, the centre of high school was not equipped because the performers were passing on offers, passing on these all possible commissions, but what is most important is not open. So I think that even in the further part of the legislative adjustment, a certain minimum price should be set.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50653	Thank you. And the last replica, Marijan Škurić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50654	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'd like my colleague here to really want to highlight the two things that you said in your debate. The first is indeed we must agree that indeed public procurement has a direct and significant impact on the economy, and we need to talk as much as it takes and about everything just to make this impact on the economy much better. If we need to change another 10 times the Public Procurement Act, let's just change it to highlight the economy. Now where's that other problem that you also said that part of the functionality, first of all, and the commission, is that we define that it's being solved. First of all, do we need to hire more people on the committee, whether to be as professional as possible or not? I don't think personally because we see from local administrations and self-government that we have extremely high-quality people who do public procurement. I can even say from this experience my professional service knows public procurement under Croatian laws, and they must be able to conduct public procurement and by law because we participate in EU funds. And first of all, we need to know the actual state and we need to know about the responsibility of each of us who does something. First of all, what you said were professional mourners. There's a lot of them. They complain about any public procurement and need to see how to proceed with it. It might take... some new law and some new regulation in that part because there really are. And a special emphasis should perhaps be seen around the commission if they complain precisely about the items concerning the EU Fund's projects that should be an absolute priority and absolutely respect the things they are in. Because in the event of an overrun, then we lose funds from EU funds. And as for deadlines, there's an average of 60 days, but otherwise the commission would have to... within 30 days but only after all the relevant facts of the institution can run it. And that's where some things should change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50655	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50656	Here I am not going to say that every day is important but that all deadlines are important regardless of whether the deadlines when the funds of the local self-government and the EU are used. Since the EU and its investments and its projects are much more rigorous, I certainly agree with you that the State Commission should have that in mind. But what's more important is that the commission is independent and independent. Now, whether it will be criteria for the level of the competition, but we cannot regulate it here because the commission is independent in its work, and it decides for itself. About me agreeing with your proposal so that certainly these competitions that are related to European projects should certainly be a priority because these are more than funds that are both non-refundable and cannot be re-used. I agree with your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50657	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In light of the technical change of laws we unfortunately have as much as we wish since the start of this fall session. However, it is very interesting that on a very interesting topic from the presentation of my predecessors, it is evident how effective the work of the commission is important for the implementation of certain investment procedures and projects. We were aware of the facts in the past 2, 3 years before everything as the economic crisis began, as construction fell by two-digit percentages each year in its activities and the logical thing that many companies appeared in the public tender and more than once because of the fact that the competition and God knows what and that made it impossible for local self-government units and also certain ministries to carry out their work. And so this taxicab listed it might have been the biggest problem in the last two, three years. and now that we have changed the law that entered into force on 23 February 2013, all clubs welcomed the increase in the number of members in the commission for a simple reason, expecting it to be more effective the logical thing, we get on the benches of the bill and I honestly have to say that I remained surprised because Article 1 if someone thinks that one of the budgetary users could have the opposite of the State Budget Act has a different basis then it obviously does not know the structure and way of funding of the budget users. Therefore, no budget user can have a different base. For all those who receive salaries from the state budget, the basis is something that is constant and that is the same for all because the government is making a decision on the height of the foundation. Well, in the end, you remember a colleague and a colleague that the government couldn't have been able to cut the salary by 3% to cut the base because of certain collective agreements and that, but rather, it went towards a reduction in the coefficients. So the coefficients thus government shows that the coefficients are something that the Government decides about, and the basis is the result of something or some agreements and agreements, but obviously here is going to change the basics but only as a fig tree for those articles is the same as Article 2 that the fig leaf is basically for Article 3, because it is also not clear to me if we are talking about a single body that independently decides on a few tens of billions of kunas annually, and a body that should really be removed from any political influence, and at the end of the day I would remind you colleagues and colleagues that at the head of the commission and when HDZ was in power, there was a man who was appointed during the SDP-HNS coalition, and even for a time I don't think that he was a member of the HNS that we wanted to move him precisely because of this commission having this independence and that there was no political influence over all those major discussions that took place when the budget was being held. So it would be logical that there was a solution left in Article 2 that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed to the Croatian Parliament at least 60 days before the term of office a new member for the reason that whoever is there knows that there will be no more, and whoever comes to prepare for this new function. But I say Article 1 and 2 are, according to us, in the HDZ club, a fig leaf for Article 3. And Article 3 is the real reason for amending this law. Obviously somewhere in the note is someone's image if there is not this many years of internship after a judicial exam and now it is necessary to eliminate this word from which at least three years in the field of public procurement, and now look for many, many jobs that are less responsible in the Republic with respect to colleagues of the legal profession for which I need a judicial exam for one of the key commissions where decisions are made and even the future of several hundred jobs because you if you lose the competition if the commission estimates that it is not yours must be people who are educated who have a certain experience. No, we are now moving what is very important that someone is three years old after a judicial examination has been passed because the legal exam passed is nevertheless considered to be a confirmation of the acquisition of a certain level of education and knowledge, three years of public procurement work we move it. But someone doesn't have to have a legal exam, and now we're going back to what all our colleagues were saying, and that's what this commission's expertise is about. So with this article 3, we define what we said before that they must be professional and capable people. So we're moving the elemental condition that was, which is three years of public procurement after a professional examination has been passed. And then at the end of not 10 but 8 years, so probably somewhere in the seal there's someone's icon that's going to be named at the moment when the government proposes then we'll see what kind of party character is re-involved by the Kukuriku coalition model. However, colleagues and colleagues because of all the debates in this House who did what they did there are a lot of mayors and commissioners who have been waiting for the Commission's procedures for a year and more because it was probably complicated and people were not able to do it, and in this way we are practically lowering the level of education, we lower the level of experience just to catch some party favorites. And then why? For the simple reason that when you look at the commission law, then you'll see the reasons for their shift. So as you now appoint him and he has been appointed to five years practically only death and taking him directly from the office to prison is the reason for his replacement for no other reason practically the Government of the Republic of Croatia or this House of the High can't replace a member of the Commission. And therefore, colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ Club simply cannot agree to this because I repeat Article 1 and 2 are fig leaves for Article 3 for party love because if these problems that are causing this law to change then these problems have also been visible in the adoption of laws. such a team more than I mentioned that the basis can have no one different who receives salaries from the state budget for all budget users is the basis absolutely identical. Therefore, we do not want to participate in your entourage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50659	Thank you, too. Josip Boric, replica first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50660	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Shuker agrees with a great deal of your debate, however, the problem with us is that we are constantly dealing with the consequences and not with the cause, and that is how it joined this state commission. I don't see a problem among these people, which is why we have backlogs in public procurement, i.e. The solutions they need to solve, than we have more and more of these cases. And why do we have more? Because our economy is at odds and those who have managed to survive these last three, four years are being brought back by the government's policy to new problems. Because today we hear what is the biggest, biggest public interest of the blockade for 3 or more thousand kunas of debt, tax debt. Who can normally explain that those who do business and try to survive to block them because they owe three or four thousand kunas and write off the one who owes 50 million kuna without a problem 10. And we say it's all by law and it's just and moral. What's happening to us, we heard here today in public procurement. We say the lowest price is our problem. We had a law on public procurement at the hearing, did we offer you a solution? If the lowest price is the problem, then let's get rid of the lowest and highest. As the only criteria for selecting a performer. Why don't we cut it? So let performers or suppliers of goods or services fight for what may be appropriate. What happens to our lowest prices? We hear, we start work, we stop, they realize we can't go out with that price, and we're all in trouble. The state's got double damage back then, but no one wants to apply it. Because it is something that the European Union knows but that is not what we want because we believe that this is how we save funds. We're not saving anything. We've only got problems. And that's why this commission, in the opinion of this government, needs one or two more members again, so we're going to be a little bit and 9, maybe we're going to need 11 in some period, but we're not going to solve the problem. We deal with the cause, not the consequences, then we do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50661	Thank you. ... Here you go. Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for my colleague, Boris, from the debate and colleague Mandic from the HNS Club and colleague of the Bubal from the HDSSB Club, and finally the HDZ Club, we all agree on the same. So it is in everyone's interest for this commission to be more efficient, that this commission works better, that the appeal procedures last as little as possible and the government is in the interest that based on the detected problems and certainly on thousands of cases which were in the commission able to determine which is the biggest problem so probably one of the biggest problems was the lowest price and so on. outside the cost-effectives where various games were likely to be played. And instead of going and solving that problem and in such a way we would release the commission of all the lame complaints that unfortunately happen precisely because someone handles the price just to knock down the competition, we're not going to do it... We will change the law in that direction that we would support and all the clubs in this House without distinction whether they are ruling and opposition, we are not going to change the conditions for us to imprison someone on the state commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's just the fact and the truth. Because we don't deal with the problem of public procurement here, we don't deal with the problem that colleagues and colleagues face in the procurement commission. We're dealing here that under the cover of a base I say simply no one else can determine but it's known that we're engulfing a party guy who hasn't been able to get into a well-paid chair in the past two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50663	Thank you. Next replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50664	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so I have to admit, my colleague Shucker was the first thought I read the same thing you said, but I thought we'd all have a debate today that we really wanted some improvements. There are a lot of blockades in the Croatian system to encourage the economy and it is interesting that any topic that comes to the Parliament's agenda, which is related to the economy, is actually a very big debate, although not on all sides. But what's important here is to say, when you add up the blockades in the public procurement system, when you add up the blockades in conservatives that also contribute well to the speed of solving problems in Croatia and the launch of investments, then we really need to be highly imagined all together and think if we can really improve something, can we really do something. What we're all stressing here and what's already been pointed out, we can't say it's good if the Board of Appeals solves the appeal in 60 days. She has to be solved in 15 days, if we want to run something. That goal should be pursued in 15 days. And the experts who will be there say that they must be independent, independent, the commission is certainly necessary, it is not necessary, it is not questionable, it is necessary. But really if what you're saying is at least true, then it's all sad. Because we would have to discuss the report for this year on February 23rd it seems to me that the law has been passed, we are now in 10 months, we are talking about now improving the commission's work due to 9... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50665	Thank you. We have a colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50666	Yes, colleague Hrg. And you're also saying what we've all been saying so far, so the key problem of the commission is time and time to resolve complaints. Because simply at times when you want to do something when you're limited in time, because the budget year lasts a year and you, if you don't spend that money, you're practically losing that money next year. Because instead of planning that money next year for something else, you're going to have some surplus in the budget, and you're basically definitely after one of those missed competitions as head of the local self-government unit or as head of some ministry or some state institution in a certain way, it's a key problem. Because you, if the commission doesn't solve your complaint by the end of the year, you have that money secured in your budget, and even if you go into budget rebalancing in half of the 12 months, you can't spend that money on some over-the-counter project by the end of the year. And what it's worth to you if at the end of the year you have an surplus in the budget of 10 million kuna, it means that you were incompetent and spent and did something for the citizens of your city or county or something concerning the Ministry. Also, I'm talking about some other institutions... conservatives. So look at some of the facades on the Upper Town that were restored a year ago by someone's orders and moisture has practically eaten them from below after a year. What is it, a waste of money? Obviously, these conservatives too must think that under some new conditions some new techniques and technologies will be better, but not those who choose that. But I repeat, this law is unfortunately not passed and is not proposed to improve, in order to facilitate all participants in the procurement process, and those who discuss the public tender and those who compete and those who resolve complaints rather than only Article 3 define us to arrest a party friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50667	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50668	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, this debate has raised a great deal of interest, especially for those of us who come from local self-government units because we witness daily in our work of difficulties. In this debate it was also clear that there are also those professional... this term of the complainant who complains and go to the demolition competition for these or those reasons. I even heard from my colleagues, and I personally testify that the lowest price is not the most common but that some of the lame conditions get caught, and that makes it also, of course, difficult. But I want to warn you of another moment that often occurs. Namely, the competitions in view of the state of construction show up with a large number of competitors, and that's good for us in local self-government units, because we can get a good price after those efforts we've made to secure the financial framework makes it easier for us and now we get these circumstances, this one complains, and it certainly makes it difficult for us. But what happens to us, of course, prevents us from the quality of life. We want everyone in their midst to create a kindergarten and a sports hall to have and to have the same and to play sports in rural areas, and this is, of course, making it difficult for us now. Therefore, an effective and fast decision by the Commission on public procurement will also contribute to the quality of life in our rural areas, where the quality is unfortunately due to events in agriculture is still very difficult, by the way I'm just saying, but also this moment that the quality of life of every citizen and child in every environment deserves evenly in every rural environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50669	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50670	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Milinkovic, that's why on behalf of the club, I pointed out that we can't agree in any way to reduce the conditions for the members of the commission instead of being too tough and that someone here suggested three other committee members would support it for exactly the reason to solve this problem that you were talking about. Only people who are educated and experienced can quickly solve it... and can do it in a good way. Those who are not educated, who have no experience, cannot solve the problem, they are messing with them and may even wait for the party directive to solve some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50671	Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Shuker, here I was just going to add the following to your debate, and it's about these public procurement laws. So the HDZ government, in its last term, has fought hard against corruption, the one part detector in corruption has been this very public procurement, and a law on united public procurement has been passed. So the fight against corruption disappeared in 2012, when the coalition government came, that's no longer being talked about, no more talking about employment, exactly what you are in your debate today. Not only is the problem here of hiring unprofessional people, the problem is also in the ministries, the degradation of people and the rest, and we see that the ruling least problem is that they think that it is not corruption and that more than when they are corrupt, and unfortunately we are witnessing it here is one I would say the most banal of these 40 tonnes of chicken pâtéte per 7.7 kuna that the whole of Croatia is laughing, and the hungry ones without a job are finally waiting for a little to shake down so that before the expiry date and the pâtéta chickens get something to eat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50673	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50674	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sumrak, which is why we point out the expertise and it doesn't matter whether the commission discusses who gets outsourcing cleaning in hospitals or who gets to build the Peljega Bridge, because someone can legally see if the procedure is implemented and it can be okay. However, there are a number of technical traps that hide from whether an offer is the most favourable or not. Because look, this tape that happens in this Split elementary school that Minister Jovanovic is visiting several times already has the consequences because we have defined that the lowest price is winning our competition. If we had defined some technical characteristics that someone must have to do in order to do some work then the same commission or the same people wouldn't be able to solve the problem of outsourcing cleaners and the problem of the Peljega Bridge or building a school. But I repeat, in Article 3, we are not moving towards professional knowledge and professional quality, but we are going to make love to people. But I repeat that this government has proposed a law that requires the commission to be increased by three more men. Knowing all these problems we have would surely support it, but we can't support a fig leaf hiring party personnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50675	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50676	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shucker, you were the most content in your presentation, in your speech in connection with this law. So, I agree with that, in fact, as you said yourself, a colloking fig leaf to entangle the people of our party and others in the coalition. It is also true that many have waited for the Commission's decision per year and that the appeal procedure lasted and lasted and not only the appeal procedure but also the decisions. Here's an example from our county, you've instructed some other examples that two schools in Brod-Posavina County, so through public procurement, have been hit for construction at prices for which not even two classrooms could be built. And finally what happened? Here's the school in Podkkraj stopped building. Children continue to travel to another school like those in Split. The school in Garcino isn't always finished, etc. So, it happens all over Croatia, that kind of thing. I was going to suggest or at least here suggest to the Deputy Minister that, that the Commission has a discretionary right to set up, so not publicly the lowest implementing prices. Therefore, the minimum or minimum performance prices below which no bidder can go or are then rejected. I think that would be good, it is a proposal if I believe the Commission to do the right thing, that it is fair, that it is independent in its work and that it can, therefore, make it very easy to calculate the lowest performance price as it was for those POS apartments. It was known that 700 euros was the implementing price of an apartment in Zagreb. Injury the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50677	Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50678	Please, my colleague, you've had your chance, and you haven't taken advantage of it. Furthermore, as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50679	Time for my colleague Grubisic, time is up. Thank you. I'd pray we don't throw. Thank you. Comrade Shuker, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50680	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I sincerely hope that after this light lemonade debate at the beginning, that through these replicas we have now sent to the Deputy Minister a message, I think that this can be read and from the debate of my colleague Mandic only said a little easier, that if the Government wants to do so today, tomorrow, God will launch an investment cycle in Croatia, if we want to make better for everyone that the law has to be changed in some other direction, in some direction to remove all these negativitys that all the mayors, mayors, mayors, from whatever political options they have on the ground and have all the heads of state administration regardless of who's dealing with it. So, they all have the same problem. And why he's running away from it, why we're going for these technical changes, I'm telling you, he doesn't make me do anything but open space. It should only be seen who is now running out of five years in the Public Procurement Commission and immediately send him a message that he will not be notified 60 days before, but probably a few days before the deadline expires and propose to the candidate how it already is, usually Thursday to be voted on by the Public Procurement Commission under these conditions. But I'm proposing to the Deputy Minister that from this debate that's being conducted today rather hastily in this House of Highs, he consider changing the law. Obviously, an offer that is the basic criterion of the lowest price is something that has proved extremely negative in all recent years. Because in the end, if you eliminate the highest price pumper and the lowest price timer you will probably come up with some real price, and also that perhaps the Commission should think about hiring people from the technical profession in the commission, if not perhaps as members of the Commission, then as advisers, they simply know how to read from the offer documentation of that thing that only people who are dealing with technique and practice, lawyers and economists can't read very hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50681	Thank you. Next replica Marijan Skvarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50682	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, we can agree on at least one of these, which is that we want an effective and above all expert commission with the aim of procurement more than 40 billion kuna as much as it was part of this year, last year, to serve us to have a better and better quality economy and the bigger investment cycle in this part. That's all, and after that you've turned that that's why changing this law is infatuating people. First of all, the expertise of these people is unquestionable because so far these conditions were stricter than the conditions that were for judges of administrative courts. However, public procurement is one part of the level that does not need such expertise, first of all one reality and application of laws. And as for people's entanglement, I mean now to implicate this after, we who deal with and work with HDZ and the government, everything else that we can't deny that for the people of HDZ is the world champion in that part. That's the way to look at yourself, then the others. And one question in order for you to interpret that part of the expertise of the Commission itself, that in 2007, when you were still in power, there was an increase of over 62% of the appeal cases, 2009 over 39%, etc. And we know that our economy fell 10%. So we had a 60% increase in appeal cases, and practically public procurement was much smaller because we had nothing to report. Why, then, was the Commission not a professional, efficient and able to solve these things in order to be in a much better situation today than that we are now solving how to make it more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50683	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50684	Well, look, I'm still very good at your accident. That commission you mentioned was named by your government coalition in 2003. We haven't changed it, not one member, not even a respected colleague from your party, from Rijeka, who had a certain trial. No one touched him until the moment the legal conditions were met that he could no longer be a member of the Commission. So, that year you're talking about is the commission you named, not you, but your political option... About who's the world's champion in the appointment go to HEP so you'll see who's the world champion, but you wouldn't talk about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wouldn't bring this debate to this, because it would take us where all the colleagues in the replicas didn't want to go. We just wanted to warn that this amendment to the law should have gone towards making the Commission more efficient. But I repeat, my memory still serves me very well, and I can answer to every meal like this very argumentantly that you, unfortunately, are not. And you should know that in certain time processes the investment cycle from the budget of the units of local self-government was two to three times bigger than you are today, except you won't admit it. See the 2008 Budget, so look at the amount of investment from the state budget, how big they are today. This is today practically to watch with periscope you can't see, and what was in 2008 you could see from here on Sljemen how much investments there were.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50685	Thank you. It's like where my colleague Shuker is. Next replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50686	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Schucker is clearly showing by this law who will probably be even more to us as you said the painting was missing, the name and last name will soon be seen when the competition is announced who will be chairman of the commission, who will be members. Since both the president and the members are reduced criteria, it is likely that the work in which the commission has made its decisions clear that such a small number of investments have been slowed down and the competitions have been cancelled three times. But there are cases when the commission agreed to the selection of performers but the ministry then annulled the competition so as not to get the one who was the best at all references and prices. Here it is likely that most members will be made out of the Kukuriku coalition option so that they can control public procurement procedures, so that they can influence the choice of contractors and that they can please those. I think this clearly speaks about what will happen, and when we see names, we will be even clearer to whom positions and leaders are intended but also members themselves, since members are reduced that they do not have to have 10 years of work experience on similar jobs but must be 8 years old. This will be a precedent in public procurement will be party-delegated people so that all cohesion funds can influence and select those performers that suit them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50687	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50688	Thank you very much. A colleague, Djakic, was just the reason why we cannot agree on behalf of the HDZ Club. For the simple reason, so we can be spoken to like this and so we have not touched the commission that was appointed to be 5 years in 2003 until the end of her term, we have not touched it. For a simple reason, it is necessary to respect people who take responsibility at some point to bring down some kind of competition, not crash, but simply say that some kind of contest for several hundred million did not pass according to the law. This should be appreciated and respected because these people are surely exposed to intense attacks and intense pressures. And in order to make such a decision, they must have one great life, one great work experience, and they must be educated. That's three basic preconditions. Because if they have it at some point, their conscience is working and then there's no political pressure to force them to throw his personal, moral, human and professional integrity into the mud. But Article 3 unfortunately eliminates such people from being able to compete for a job like this rather than obviously someone is already ready, has already sat in a train of party chair and only needs to be brought to the station and transferred to another chair. And that's this article 3. And that's why I said that we at the HDZ Club can't accept these changes because of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50689	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50690	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, here's mentioning this article 3. You mentioned the icons nicely. Figures do not solve problems, the most important experience in public procurement. If the cards don't solve the problems, it's obvious from that album number 21, it's called Plan 21. In the process of public procurement, we have a problem of dumping prices where providers with the dumping price appear, after which they shut down the company, do not pay their suppliers, and what later appears is a pre-taste settlement where the healthy part of the tissue also gets into problems and did not participate in public procurement procedures. Therefore, icons do not solve problems, but the law must be changed just to begin to solve problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50691	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50692	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That fellow Bubalo you are certainly one of those who in this House of High can hardly speak with authority, with experience of talking about this subject because as mayor you met with all the negativity of the existing law. Yes, the truth is, sometimes they get you money and don't pay the subcontractors, and then somebody comes in 2002, it's called the Law on outstanding claims with a term of one year, and now it's called a pre-demand settlement and another Debt Reprogramme Act. And now there's a very interesting story, so who shows up, who decides, but basically that commission has a very high role to play. Because if a company that has certain business problems appears in a tender and according to all its professional references is satisfied and some homeless people report and crash that tender only because of this company unfortunately cannot pay these 2,000 kuna taxes, which is why Mr. Linic will block everything even though most of these 2,000 kuna debtors were on that debt list last year. It was also in those materials we got for the debt reprogramme. What's the effect of that law? Of the 51 billion charged to 500 million. What effect will this be? You'll see about that. So it's all tied up, nothing can be separated. The functioning of a single state is a living tissue and a law of connected vessels, and if you make a mistake in one loan to a girl, unfortunately, from all vessels in the wrong direction. And the cards that are ready, unfortunately, only lead us to the devil.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50693	Thank you. And the last replica, Allen Prelec. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50694	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am sorry that you are against the laws that solve some of the problems in our society every time. I, as head of the local self-government unit, can say that I have major problems in the appeal procedure that should be under the law of 30 days it takes a lot more. However, this law goes towards simply solving some of these existing problems. I can tell from my experience in 2009 and 2010 I waited in the appeal procedure for three or six months. You were able to handle it then and you didn't solve it. You're always giving us some pucks and telling us what you don't need, you're talking about infatuation you're talking about not having a new commission for more than three years, and what did you do in your term, did you solve those problems that you could then record? You're not. You're only here to criticize. All those laws that go towards improving and solving such problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50695	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50696	My dear colleague, I'd be happy to say that I agree with you what you said, but unfortunately, don't be angry, I'm really sorry to tell you this, but you haven't read the law, because if you've read the law then all of what you've said and why all your colleagues agree you don't have in this law, and I'm really sorry to have to tell you. Because this is all what you said we're all up for. So there's not a single political option in this assembly that won't support what you said but unfortunately you read the law then you'd see that this law doesn't solve anything from what you said and I just tried to tell you that. And I never said in the assembly that everything was ideal in some other time that nothing is right now, but let me, as someone who's been at the head of the Ministry of Finance, have experience in both good and bad things, so maybe some information and some things maybe more than some colleagues, so let me just share it with you, with arguments if someone offers an argument for something else, I'll be happy to accept it. And I would accept your argument, but unfortunately, my colleague, read the law, you will see that this bill does not solve anything that you are just like my colleague Bubalo and my colleague Hrg and all the leaders of the local self-government unit great... why? Because you all have the same problems and nobody slows it down. But this law doesn't solve it. If it were proposed here to increase the commission by three members to propose the introduction of some advisers on certain economic professions to help, then that would be what you're talking about, but here it is proposed to reduce professional conditions, reduced years of work experience. I repeat, it says to me that I would be happy if I were wrong, except that someone's image is only ready to be signed by the Prime Minister and sent to this House to vote for that solution. I'd be overjoyed if that were the case but this article 3 points to nothing else. But otherwise, I totally agree with what you said, and for what you said, you'll always have the support of me personally and the HDZ club because simply no one normal can be against what you said. But I'm telling you to read the law and you'll see that there's no law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50697	It's extremely important when a man from experience speaks. Thank you very much. This is what we're done with. Deputy Minister, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50698	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much for this debate. Well, I'd like to answer some questions that have been asked here. Here is Mr. Honorable Representative Kresimir Bubalo, who asked the question of the longest time in the public procurement process. I fully agree with you that we have an average deadline which solves the problems and which are 59 days and where 11 billion are blocked, and the longest deadline in the public procurement process that we have spent in the ministry is 146 days in the public procurement process, and 154 days in the concession process. What's very worrying here, and that's why we're going to this amendment and supplementing this law, and it was passed in February by the State Commission Act, that some things can be solved for 21 days, that's the fastest case in the concession, and one conclusion of the opinion within 4 working days. Now the problem is that we have a difference between something that's a very maximum part and a minimum part. As attached to your state commission is appointed for a period of 5 years, so Mr. Skuric regarding your question, these negative results are on the state commission which was appointed in 2008 and as far as I know, not one person in that commission was from Rijeka. It is a new commission that was appointed in 2008 and its mandate expires in 2013 we had little changes in 2010, '11 and thus the Croatian Parliament's names came later. What is mentioned here several times is the lowest price. The law on public procurement does not prescribe the lowest price but the most economically favourable offer and the Ministry of Economy has repeatedly pointed out through education of people in the public sector by local units... means public procurement obligations, which is the most economically favourable offer, is not the lowest price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, when making a tender for public procurement, it is very important to consider. Also, I like to point out clean today that one here is supposed to be making some kind of decision in advance which is not good. Ms. Honorable Parliament representative Mrs. Sumrak said that the pangs that have been ordered and which have become some kind of hit lately are already known which prices in what time period. Mrs. twilight, it's not like that because the 28.10. expires in a public competition. So if you have any information I think a place about your... that someone will be determined that the prices are not here but the State's Attorney's office or the place where you can report it. It's just a matter of order to introduce you. The Croatian government brings in an annual procurement plan in public procurement or supply of goods. This year, six public tenders were brought in. We ordered 10,000 pounds of powdered eggs, we have 40,000 pounds of flour, 20,000 gallons of oil, it was corn, it was wheat. The same competition that you were talking about was launched on 18.9th in the EU vote, 19.9th in the official part of the National Newspaper. The deadline for the 28.10. And we can't accept that... about the possible choice or possible way to know which pâtés, what quality and during which time period they are delivered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is very important here for the highlighted is all prescribed in accordance with the legislation or in accordance with the applicable Public Procurement Act. What we are looking forward to today is a debate on public procurement in other segments such as professional complainants etc. We expect a new EU directive on public procurement. Therefore, in line with the implementation of the EU Directive, it will move towards preparation or will move towards the preparation of amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, regardless of the fact that Mr. esteemed Croatian MP is constantly changing but the topic of public procurement in the EU is an open topic, a subject that is very subjectable to change, the directives are very often adopted and, of course, this is part of the Croatian Treaty of Accession with the EU, and this is one of the topics which are top issues concerning the work and councils of ministers and other councils, working groups and other committees within the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50699	Thank you too, Deputy. We have a few replicas. The first one came forward was Tomislav clari. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50700	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues... Deputy Minister Leveric here said that it is not the only criterion but that we have an economic price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that this is the case, but make me an analysis of the public procurement of all units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, and you'll see what the percent of the lowest price in this section relating to the selection of contractors, that I'm not saying everything else. And the fact is and say it openly or admit it but don't say that these amendments to the law improve and make it effective. The fact is exactly what Mr. Shucker said, but it's your right to have the authority to appoint people. And it is also a fact, and I was already talking about that, when the laws are passed by emergency procedure, it is necessary to read a little bit and respect the constitutional court's warning and the constitutional court which is on this topic and has been shown in writing in this Assembly and the Croatian public, and it will be interesting to see which it will be and which foreigners will belong to the new people who will be. So these changes by emergency procedure in this way these three articles only go in this direction to put someone somewhere, in no way improve the efficiency of public procurement. And let me tell you one more thing. Waiting, delaying all of us who are permanent in some public procurement procedures is the cheapest price most of us and we choose not to have problems, in the end it's always the most expensive price, the most expensive job done and the waste of money in the wind. If I didn't say we hadn't worked out, there's never been a debate in this House on how to punish what the HDSB colleagues said, these professional complainants and they have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50701	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50702	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, I would, quite agree with what you said, just as we agreed on the debate. But you haven't touched the motion to amend the law. So all you've said is not the subject of these changes you've proposed. So this is all something, you've given certain statistical indicators and I'm glad we got them, we have some information that we can't come up with and some new knowledge. And I agree with you on some things you should do. So that's something that's not controversial. So you've even said that you agree with our discussions where we insist on greater expertise, and in the bill itself, you're disabling it. So, we obviously agree that we want more successful public procurement, actually the work of the public procurement commission, obviously we are all aware that the lowest price and professional complainants is a great evil especially when you have such an economic crisis as Croatia has, after all, until one year ago and the whole world that it is a cancer that you simply cannot remove if you do not change it by law. And you're not dealing with changing the law with it, you're dealing with it by me with benign things. I told you about Article 1. You're totally unnecessary. You know who determines the base for the pay. And put it in this Act or not put the coefficient if it's not a state official it's known, but well, that government determines but to change the law because you're going to say the basis of the government is ridiculous, but I repeat Article 3 is maybe your intention isn't that, but Article 3 unfortunately points to you changing this law exclusively because you're arresting someone. And we'll see when the first appointment, we don't need to argue about it right now but be aware of what I told you about these changes you've been talking about, just like I told you when I was discussing this law that you have full support still in the announcement of the HDZ Club about increasing the number of board members precisely because we are aware that... We can't work effectively. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you will also have full support for these changes that we have also talked about from the ruling coalition and colleagues in the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50703	Next line, Frano Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50704	Thank you very much, Vice President, here's Mr. Minister, Deputy, I would not agree with your debate and your exposure because I will tell you only I come from Požega-Slavon County when it comes to public procurement, these are so many problems that people no longer know what they're going to do. What was before the speech was going down, because once someone complains to you, it takes you five months to repeat that same public procurement. So, my ZUC, I'm telling you, the County Road Authority has not received a reply for 75 days from therefore to a complaint sent by one, 75 days of no answer. There goes the winter service, in a month's time preparations have to be made, so I'm asking you how this ZUC is going to do its part of the job that it has to do if by today you don't know who's right yet. On the other hand, the question arises why 30% of the construction permits were issued this year, because of the very problems we are talking about. And what's the lowest price. As I'm saying, I'm coming from Požega-Slavon County, yesterday I was going to Pakrac near the building where the contractor just got who was the lowest, had gone into bankruptcy, on the walls of the moss caught up in Pakrac near the building where the contractor had just got who was the lowest he had already gone into bankruptcy, on the walls of the moss caught himself in the parkrac, in that apartment when someone gave him to me the whole building I wouldn't want to live. Now I'm asking you if the lowest performer is the best, and you need to change it urgently because we meet in local units every day. And so, please, the state of Croatia in all of these problems is bartering around the citizens wherever you remember and on the other side it leaks to you everywhere and you don't see where the problems are respected, Mr. Deputy and welcome the minister and tell him that it leaks everywhere and don't just turn to the citizens with these taxes that are so far... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50705	Thank you. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50706	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here it is, Mr. Deputy, now we've heard that the price doesn't have to mean the quality. So the lowest price is that it's not usually the best quality. But here I really wouldn't want it to turn out if I insisted on these chicken pâtés, on those 40 tons. But believe me, in stockpiles in the event of an accident so far, as far as I'm concerned, they're never pastures and quite chicken that are otherwise suspicious of quality, it's not bought by anyone. If you're going to the store, and I'm going to check how much that 140-gram package costs in a store that's not even too expensive, it costs about 6.6 kuna, and here 40 tons is bought at 7.7 kuna. I'm asking you, in case of an accident, no matter what you're going to pet that pâté, to what? Well, the pâté never gets in the way of that. Why didn't you take honey, marmalade? For example. Honey, honey still gives energy, something, and what pâté does? Infectious diseases. Well, that's bad. And that's why it's bad, because you had a deal here with the manufacturer of that chicken pâté and that 40 tons to get him out of his warehouse and to transfer him to another one, and then God knows where it's going to end up together. That's what your chicken pâté's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50707	Thank you. We usually end up like that when we get too far away from the agenda theme. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I am establishing a break of up to 15 hours and we are continuing with a united debate from points 12 to 20 of the agenda. It's a 13,50 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50708	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 474. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes were 82 votes in favour and 35 votes against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50709	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We will now discuss in a united debate the draft laws under regular number 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20. That's what the agreement between clubs was made. I'm not going to read the names of all these laws now because then that reading would take longer than a discussion of two clubs. I'll just say the number of legal proposals. It's P.Z. No. 462, 460, 463, 465, 464, 461, 476, 482 and 481. - Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the Croatia-Bosnia Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA Cross-border Cooperation Component for 2012, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 462. - Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the Croatia-Montenegro Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2012, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 460. - Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the Croatia-Serbia Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2012, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 463. - Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia-Bosnia under the IPA Cross-border Cooperation for 2013, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 465. - Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning Croatia-Montenegro's cross-border cooperation programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2013, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 464. - Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the cross-border cooperation programme Croatia-Serbia under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2013, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 461. - Final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA Cross-border Programme Slovenia-Croatia" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 476. - Final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA Cross-border Programme Hungary-Croatia" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 482. - Final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the IPA Programme of Adriatic Cross-border Cooperation" under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 481. The proposer of all these legal proposals is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. I'm calling dr. Jaksa Pugliza Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds to address the parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50710	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice-President, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, allow me to briefly explain the legislative proposals referred to in the procedure. Since there are many of them, I would then go through certain countries, so for each programme of cross-border cooperation I would explain exactly what is going on in certain countries. I'll go with Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there are two laws before you that regulate the Croatia-Bosnia and Herzegovina Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA Cross-border Cooperation Programme for Pre-Accession Assistance for 2012 and 2013. As is the current legislative proposal on this topic that we have referred to in the Croatian Parliament, it is simple to confirm the financial agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, which provides additional funding for the Programme of cross-border cooperation. The European Commission adopted a cross-border programme between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina 207/2013 on 10 December 2007. The programme allocated funds for Croatia for the implementation of the 8.2m-euro programme, which consists of 85% of the funds from the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance and 15 per cent participation from national sources. National co-financing is mostly provided by the users of the projects, and only less from the state budget at the position of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. The one-year alocation for the Republic of Croatia under the programme with Bosnia and Herzegovina amounts to 1.17m euros, of which 1m euros relate to pre-accession aid funds. Allow me a few words just to explain the cross-border cooperation program myself. Therefore, the objective of the programme is to support the development of cross-border partnerships and the development of common cross-border projects to revitalise the economy, protect nature and the environment, and increase cohesion in the border area. The programme itself has two development priorities, and one technical assistance priority. The development priorities concern promoting cooperation in the field of tourism, small and medium-sized economy, and a second priority for improving the quality of life in the border area. The priority of technical assistance relates to supporting relevant implementing bodies in the implementation of the programme itself. On the Croatian side there are 9 border counties, and the programme is open to users with so-called counties. the associated area, so for more additional counties. The financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission under the cross-border cooperation component was signed for 2012 on 16 January 2013, and for 2013 on 9 April 2013, by the European Commission, and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 13 June 2013. In order for these agreements to be legally applicable, it is necessary to adopt these two laws on their validation. The total value of the IPA programme for 2012, so the funds in question are 17.7m kuna, i.e. 2.35m euros. Of this, 8.8 million kuna partners, i.e. 1.17m euros, are foreseen for Croatia's partners and, as I said, 85% are divided into the IPA programme, and 15% are their own participants. As regards public calls for project proposals, I will only point out that by confirming this financial agreement, it is possible to finance projects under the third cross-border cooperation programme tender. The tender was already launched on 6 August 2013, open until 4 November 2013, and the adoption of this law creates preconditions for ensuring financial allocations for the implementation of a public call. I would also like to inform you that, on the basis of previous experiences relating to the rate of allocated funds, it was more than 90% which testifies to the very high interest of users in the border area. We expect that there will also be a very large number of project proposals on this public call and that the agreement rate will continue to be at a very high rate above 90%. Let me now present briefly the legislative proposals concerning cross-border cooperation with the Republic of Montenegro. Therefore, two legislative proposals relating to the implementation of the programme under the cross-border cooperation component of the IPA Financial Allocation Programme for 2012 and 2013. As regards the cooperation programme with the Republic of Montenegro, the total funds allocated for the period 2007-2013 are 3.17m euros. As in the previous case, the funding is 85% from the pre-accession IPA programme, and 15% are national funds. The objectives of the programme are very similar to those of BiH. So we have a development priority that concerns the creation of favourable environmental and social economic conditions by improving cooperation in the fields of environmental protection, natural and cultural heritage, tourism and culture and promoting good neighbourly relations. The specific priority relates to technical assistance, to supporting relevant implementing bodies. On the Croatian side of this programme are users from the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and it is also open to users with so-called. the associated area covered by the Split-Dalmatia County. I note that users from other counties can participate in this programme provided that project activities refer to the programme area, i.e. Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for 2012 was signed on 16 January 2013 and for 2013 on 22 February 2013. On the part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the agreement was signed on 13 June 2013 but in order for it to be legally applied it is necessary to adopt these two proposed laws. So far, two calls have been made for the delivery of project proposals under the IPA programme Croatia – Montenegro. As part of the first call, 5 projects were agreed and implemented, and within the second call there were... 49 projects, and seven projects have been agreed. In any case, as far as the third public call is concerned, which is subject to the conditions of adoption of this law on financial security, we expect as much of a very high interest and a very high level of bargaining as it was in the case of BiH. In view of the nature of the process of confirming inter-state contracts and in view of all of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes, as well as in the case of the BiH Programme, the adoption of these laws by emergency procedure in order to meet their obligations under international contracts and to enable users to implement their projects neatly and to ensure the necessary resources. Cross-border programme Republic of Croatia – Serbia. So here we also have two legal proposals. As in the previous two cases, the provision of the necessary resources for the 2012 and 2013 programming year concerns. As regards the programme itself, covering the 2007-2013 programming period, the total resources allocated to the implementation of this programme are 15.4m euros, and 7.2m euros are foreseen for the Republic of Croatia. The amount consists of 83% of the funds of the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance and 17% of national co-financing. The Annual Allocation for the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and 2013 refers to 1.18m euros, of which IPA is one million euros. On the Croatian side, the implementation of this programme is attended by users from the area of two border counties, such as Vukovar-Srijemska and Osijek-Baranja, and the programme is also open for users with so-called. the associated area covering Požega-slavonska and Brod-Posavina County. Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission were signed, by the European Commission on 16 January 2013, and by the Republic of Croatia on 13 June 2013. Of course, the adoption of these two laws is necessary. In short, the implementation of the operational programme itself. As part of the first call that was called from 17th to 16th October 2009, 11 projects were agreed and the number of projects received was 110. He's talking enough about what kind of interest it is. The second call for proposals was called on 18 August until 15 November 2011. 146 project proposals were adopted, and the negotiation was related to 18 projects. The adoption of this law will create conditions for funding projects under the third call for project proposals and, in accordance with previous experiences, we also expect a very high interest, a very high level of negotiations of over 90%. In view of everything I have stated in previous cases regarding the urgency of the procedure, it is also applicable in the case of this operational programme. So we propose the adoption of the law by emergency procedure in order to meet the conditions for financing projects for the third public call as soon as possible. Proposal for a Act confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the IPA cross-border programme Slovenia – Croatia. The European Commission adopted the Transboundary Programme of the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia 2007-2013 in 2008 and allocated funds for the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the programme amounted to €42.7 million and €324.5 million respectively. The objective of this programme is to create a dynamic cross-border area with intense interaction between development actors and their stakeholders on both cross-border programmes. In line with the stated general objective, the programme itself has two development priorities and one technical assistance priority. The development priority concerns improving economic and social development and sustainable management of natural resources through measures to develop tourism, rural development, entrepreneurship, integration society, environmental protection and protection of protected areas. The priority of technical assistance relates to supporting bodies in charge of implementing the programme. On the Croatian side, users from the acceptable area participate in this programme, and it includes Međimurska, Zagrebačka, Krapina-Zagorska, Karlovačka, Varazdinska, Primorje-goranska, Istria County and the City of Zagreb. So far, funding agreements have been signed for the period 2007-2009 2010-2011, and you have been presented with legislative proposals relating to 2012-2013. The total value of the financing for 2012, 2013 amounts to 13.7 million euros. As for public calls for the delivery of project proposals, two public calls have been issued so far. As part of the first call, a total of 21 projects were agreed and 21 projects were implemented, and the value for Croatian partners was 5.15m euros. The second call opened in 2010 included an allocation for 2010, with 14.1m euros at its disposal. He was also very interested in over 180 project proposals, and a total of 22 project proposals were agreed. The adoption of this law will be subject to a third public call. The third invitation to tender... the proposals were called from 3 February 2012 until 16 April 2012. Based on our experience as well as in all cross-border cooperation programmes, we expect a very high level of agreement, again above 90%. Of course, here is the procedure, we propose an emergency procedure in view of all the restrictions we have on the time frame of implementation of the operational programme itself and related to the dates of signature and obligations arising from the agreement with the European Commission. As regards the IPA cross-border Programme Hungary-Croatia 2007-2013, the situation is the same as in previous cases. Allow just a few words about the program itself. The general objective of the programme is to promote balanced and sustainable development of the border area through successful management of natural and cultural heritage and intensive socio-economic cooperation. Two development priorities are covered by this programme and one technical assistance priority. The development priority is to improve economic cooperation and human resources and to manage natural resources through sustainable and attractive environment measures and sustainable tourism in the Mura, Drava and Danube rivers. As far as the Croatian side is concerned, users from an acceptable area including Međimurska, Koprivnica-križevska, Virovitski-podravska and Osijek-Baranja County are involved. Associated areas that can get maximum 20% of the funding. The total funding relates to Varazdinska, Bjelovar-Biogorska, Požega-Slavonska and Vukovar-Srijem County. So far, three calls have been made for the delivery of project proposals under the IPA cross-border programme. As part of the first call issued on 26 March 2009, 42 projects were agreed and implemented from 73 proposed on the Croatian side. As part of the second call for alllocations in 2010-2011, a total of 60 projects with a total of 84 Croatian project partners have been agreed and are still carried out in 16 projects by Croatian partners. Given the programme's priorities, projects are proposed top priority 2 of the development of economic co-operation and common human resources, 2/3 of the projects are applied as part of this development priority and 1/3 of the projects as part of the priorities of sustainable development and development of tourism. This law will allow the financing of projects under the 3rd call for... a proposal that was called on March 22nd, 2011. until 12 March 2012. A total of 20.7m euros are available, with 39 projects approved with a total of 78 project partners on the Croatian side of them 19 project holders. All counties have been participating with project contributions, and the largest number of projects reported under the priorities of sustainable development and development of tourism. Based on previous experience related to the contract rate, it can also be argued that a very high performance rate will continue for this operational programme within the framework of the 3rd public call. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure in order to meet its obligations under international contracts and to allow users to implement projects neatly within planned deadlines and agreed dynamics as soon as possible. And the last law in a group of these laws relating to cross-border cooperation programmes refers to the IPA Programme of Adriatic Cross-border Cooperation. So this legislative proposal confirms the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning funding for the 2012-2013 programming years. The objective of the IPA cross-border Adriatic cross-border cooperation programme and the strengthening of sustainable development of the Adriatic region compliance with the action strategy among partners with acceptable areas. The program has three development priorities. One priority of technical assistance. The development priorities concern strengthening and researching innovation to improve the development of the Adriatic area, improving economic, social and institutional cooperation, protecting cultural and natural resources through joint management, technological natural risks and strengthening integration, integration of existing infrastructure networks through promotion, development of transport, information and communication services. Technical assistance providers with the nature of the provision of support to the management bodies of the programme. On the Croatian side, users from areas including Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Split-Dalmatia, Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska, Ličko-Senjska, Primorje-Gorski and Istrian County are participating in this programme. And it can also participate under certain conditions and users from the region of Karlovac County. The financing agreement so far signed for 2007/2009. EUR 90.4 million, while it is for 2010/2011. the agreement had a value of 76m euros but for all countries covered by this programme. So they also include the Republic of Italy. This Agreement is a continuation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, relating to the location for 2012/2013. The total allocation is 79.1m euros for all sides. As far as public calls are concerned, two calls have been made for the delivery of project proposals. As part of the first call, 27 projects were agreed and implemented with 52 Croatian project partners. The value of projects, which relate to Croatian partners, is 13m euros. All Croatian counties had users of projects. The second call published in 2011 related to the 2010/2011 allocations. A total of 76m euros were allocated and 29 projects were agreed with a 61 Croatian project partner as far as the Croatian side is concerned. 9 projects have been agreed under the priorities of economic socio-institutional cooperation and 10 under the management priorities of natural and cultural resources. 10 projects have also been implemented as network availability priorities. This law allows the financing of projects under the first tender for the delivery of strategic project proposals, which was announced in September 2012 amounting to 79.12m euros. As with all current cross-border cooperation programmes and here we expect a very high interest, a very high level of over 90% bargaining. We also propose the adoption of laws by emergency procedure so that users can get the necessary resources to implement the projects as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50711	I thank the Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The time for discussion on behalf of the HDZ Club will be shared by colleagues Zvonko Milas and Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50712	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here's the minister talking exhaustively about every single agreement. My debate will be more general with what seemed interesting to me through certain agreements. So, when it comes to such drafts of the law, it is not necessary to think too much about whether or not to support them. They represent a legal basis for the use of grants... The means and that's the thing clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will also not talk too much about the fact that at the same time we are discussing or talking about an agreement concerning 2012 and 2013 that seems technically awkward to me but what is there. Although unlike the 2011 proposal, which was proposed by the same government, I, who must be honest, do not know too much about it, see great progress in terms of agreement. I just think that the agreements would still be necessary... more update. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, it's just that they're not up-to-date. Here is what I can mention in the agreement with Serbia, so in cross-border cooperation on page 25, it says: "Decision from... the control for component 2 should be adopted before the date of accession." [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm paraphrasing, otherwise it means that no contract signed before that decision will be acceptable. And I'm curious, probably everything that's going on with it. The content of the programme itself, i.e. the Agreement, is very, very demanding. In addition to the law, we are talking about the agreement, the programme, the Framework Agreement, therefore, for one who is not too much in contact with European funds, and with this topic I must be honest that these 1500 pages, regardless of the similarities or the same subject that they deal with, are not easy to chew and talk about. But the relative modesty of the funds allocated to projects financed under this programme is immediately observed. And compared to the interest, i.e. the willingness of applicants on the ground to nominate projects we are talking about about about a million euros per year we see this huge disproportionate. According to my knowledge in cross-border cooperation, it is generally manageable to finance slightly less than 15% of the proposed projects. On the other hand, I think there are a lot more quality projects. And that is why I sincerely hope that, in the next period from the Structural Funds, the Government will still be able to provide a slightly larger funding because this cross-border programme is particularly important for those areas that are least developed in the Republic of Croatia. And the funds allocated by the project are going up to about 300,000 euros, no more and they definitely can't solve the problems of the area in which the project is being implemented but to whom the project has been approved it is indeed, I think it means a lot. I would like to say that in my last debate, I mentioned the amount of funds of the Republic of Croatia compared to Serbia. And now I must say that I am pleased to see that this time, the same amount is allocated to Croatia as to Serbia. And also as I appealed last time that it might be good after a while to see a cumulative analysis of the projects or to determine what contribution these projects have brought together in the area in which they are being carried out. What I'd like to say is, I find it interesting, I'm going to refer to an agreement on cross-border cooperation with Hungary. So, the form of an agreement is standard. What you can see is that Croatia is called a candidate country, it is clear from the context understandable, so at the time we were not a member of the EU, and the managing body in that programme is the National Development Agency in Hungary. In Hungary there is also a body for the certification and audit body, while in Croatia it is part of the control body and some information point. So as I said, I guess that's the fact because the programme was formed while we were a candidate country, and Hungary was a member of the European Union. So I am interested in whether now that we are a member of the European Union, a similar structure will be formed for cross-border cooperation programmes with candidate countries or which will become our programmes with Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and what these programmes will look like since 2014. Whether there will be some differences, for example, through programmes with countries that have been or have already been members of the European Union, such as Slovenia, Italy, at the end of Hungary. The programme shows that project promoters must be non-profit legal persons and must belong to categories such as associations, institutions, economic chambers, bodies of local authorities, development agencies, research and development centres, agricultural associations, cooperatives and so on. The project's notifiers are obliged to co-finance the project with their own resources, so 15% should be secured in their own budget. As this results in the project's objective and thus the programme is not to achieve any concrete profit, which is also the nature of the free funds to be allocated, it should be one of the learning mechanisms and preparation for the nomination of projects of the framework Structural Funds. It's just returning us to what I asked last time and what I want to find out, what will look like competitions for projects that will be financed from structural funds, whether the documentation will be in Croatian and what I think is particularly important, when we can expect them. In fact, on the web pages of the Ministry of Regional Development and European Union funds in the sea, there was all the information that the coordination committees, thethematic groups, etc. were currently working on, but I did not find any concrete information on the deadline when we can expect competitions. It seems to me that even the programming documents are not finished, that they have not been sent to the European Commission, let alone that some competitions are on the table. So I'd like to ask Mr. Deputy if he can answer specifically when we can expect competitions, if he has any concrete deadlines on what funding from the Structural Funds will look like. The issue is interesting because we can note that no tender has yet been announced, which is being financed by IPA funds, and is expected to be listed in one act in the first half of this year. So the question is simple, will we be able to expect these highly announced competitions from the Structural Funds by the fall of next year, because not even programs have been developed yet, and as far as I know once they are... The European Union should also approve them for the purpose of the matter. However, as we are extremely fond of the government these days, I fear that we will lose a lot of time and that we should have done so earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50713	On behalf of the HDZ club, the debate continues, a respected counterpart, Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. This is certainly about a very valuable legislative proposal, or proposals for which the applicant failed to say that everything is based on contracts signed by the former government. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it was then signed by Mrs Martina Dalic. It's less important, it's important that things go further and that we come to this stage so that we can withdraw certain funds and these funds are very important because they refer to both specific areas and concrete projects. We, of course, are coming out of this structure of these IPA programmes relating to countries that are candidates for membership, and in this context it is very important to bear in mind that these are countries that are our neighbours. The fact that Croatia is coming out and will be able to withdraw funds from some other funds does not mean that in the future it will not benefit from IPA funds because IPA funds will benefit when we talk about cross-border cooperation between the countries that will be or are already candidates for membership in the European Union. As we see today, we have two agreements concerning cross-border cooperation with two other members of the European Union, that is Hungary and Slovenia. Why am I saying this? Because the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Regional Development, is doing its job and needs to continue to do its job, however, this should be seen in the context of what we talked about today, which is economic diplomacy. So our institutions, our ministries, representatives first and foremost in Brussels must use every opportunity to make as much use of all these programmes as possible of withdrawal for the Republic of Croatia. Because as a member of the European Union, Slovenia benefits from these contracts with Croatia, which was a candidate country at the time of signing, so Croatia will benefit from IPA funds for BiH, Montenegro, Serbia, so the countries that will be candidates at the moment. I would say that this is not just about economic benefit, only about the possibility of withdrawing some extra money, it is also about the political benefit, because it is our interest that Croatia as a member of the EU as soon as possible is surrounded by countries that are compatible with it, therefore both in the security and in the political and European sense, and that means when they become EU members, of course, provided they end the negotiations, and it is up to us to help them. This is one of the important policies, one of the fundamental values of the EU, that European values spread beyond the borders of the European Union and that is Croatia's new function. And if you want one of the most significant additional values Croatia has as a new EU member. And that's why it's important what kind of example we set for the candidate countries and what we do to help them or to help them. It would be good to help them meet their requirements for EU accession as soon as possible. So on the one hand, this is about components related to institution building and transition above all, and then building, to cross-border cooperation, to regional development, to human potential, to rural development. It is all of the interest of the border areas of the Republic of Croatia. So, one of the functions of our diplomacy and our representatives in the EU institutions whether we talk about the Commission, the Council, Parliament is that in all these projects where they participate, or requests for funds from IPA funds related to our neighbours that we lobby, too, because by helping them we are helping ourselves, and on the other hand, we broadcast in the best way if you want European values in that area which, because it is in our interest that it is on the way to join the EU as soon as possible, although of course it will not go so quickly. Here in this sense, this is one of the legislative proposals that should surely be supported in this form of urgent adoption, because it is a long-term job, a job that has started with the signing of MP Martina Dalic, and I hope it will end successfully for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50715	Thank you. The Honorable Marijan Skurić will speak on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50716	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Minister, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The European Commission adopted a multiannual programme of cross-border cooperation for the period from 2007 to 2013 and in that part was also one amendment during 2012. The Commission adopted this amendment by adopting a funding proposal for the Cross-border Cooperation Programme, namely cross-border cooperation between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Hungary, Slovenia and the Adriatic region. In the materials we've obtained, it's really well explained, defined, and we have a lot of information. What I would like to say from the part that this programme ends in 2014 and in this part of the deadline for the completion of cross-border cooperation in 2012 is this year 31.12.2013, and also the measures that will now be further activated which are already... The deadline for 2014 is 31.12.2014. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The deadlines are quite short and it is up to us to make a great effort to make these resources and those opportunities opened to us by this cross-border programme and take advantage of it. So, first of all, this cross-border programme was established by the European Commission and I can really say that one of the most important and best programmes defined by the European Commission is this IPA cross-border programme. I would really point out that the objective of this programme is to support the development of cross-border networks and partnerships, and to develop joint cross-border actions to revitalise the economy, protect nature and the environment, and to increase the social cohesion of the programme area. What is also the most important additional objective of this programme, which needs to be adopted and, above all, understood by us, that this is building capacity for local, regional and national institutions to manage European programmes, and prepare them to manage future cross-border programmes within the objective of the EU's third cohesion policy, namely European territorial cooperation. So it was up to us to learn on the IPA programme and so far all of these programmes because these are minor programmes, i.e. smaller amounts of the financial part but of great importance that local regional and national institutions actually build capacity. In general, we can say that these laws are a purely technical matter that primarily defines how funds of cross-border cooperation are used, how much money is going towards whom, for which purpose, and how much who must finance in that section. What is also common to all these programmes when little analysis is made they are defined which priorities with these programmes we want to define, and within these priorities are certain measures that are being implemented. So we can generally assume that in all these cross-border cooperations with countries we have two or three priorities. They are primarily priorities for determining and sustainable socio-economic development, then there is for improving the quality of life social integration and, of course, technical priority, so it is technical assistance. We have several measures at our priority for sustainable social economic development. Of these measures, I would particularly like to highlight a measure that aims to highlight better economic development, to improve production and services, to support, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises and a common approach to marketing, to promote future and already globally large economic markets. In this second priority of national development, economic development is environmental protection. And here, above all, is the emphasis on water supply, waste water supply and also on research and the identification of renewable energy sources, and what is most important is raising awareness of the protection of our environment. When we talk about other priorities that are defined, they are improving the quality of life and social integration. It speaks of improving the quality of life in border areas being very important, especially to reduce the risk of the environment and to increase social cohesion within the local community. What is said is that all these countries and these areas are primarily in areas that are economically underdeveloped, then largely affected by war where we need these measures to benefit those citizens who live there. Not to mention, especially in the border area affected by the war, there are many mines and these measures must also contribute to the fact that this demining can be put into full function, not only of economic, communal and social development. And when we talk about the third measure mentioned in all these projects, it's technical assistance. Technical assistance that is very important to us is to make implementation and support of programme management and implementation, support for information, promotions and.... the program. This is what is said at the outset which was an additional objective, we need to greatly increase the capacity of local, regional and national institutions. And when we look at all the users who could be united in this programme, above all, they are users of local and regional self-government, they are users of development agencies, local organisations, public non-profit organisations, also organisations that provide social and health services for international and inter-municipal and inter-city cooperation. There is also a very good possibility that everyone who deals with it can take advantage of it. I once again mention one of the best aid projects by the European Commission, i.e. the Union towards us, was the project. If we could reminisce a little of all these programmes and a certain problem which has been defined by SWOT analyses that common problems are primarily insufficient institutional capacities for cross-border co-operation. So we still have a lack of human resources and organisational capacity. And here I always mention and what is in the ministry there is also great help and understanding of the Ministry of Development that those agreements that are also signed with the UNDP to help us recognize all those capacities and programmes throughout Croatia are very important. We need to take even bigger steps, take all the professional people in Europe who have worked at any level around the EU Fund to include them in our development programmes, engage in our projects to increase these capacities, learn how EU programmes are done. From our own experience as mayor of the city, which has spent 14 projects from the EU Fund, the biggest problem was when we trained our project-development office with young people, professional and capable of using and applying all these EU funds from that moment on. It seems simple, it's not. It's a long-term program, a lot of investment, a lot of patience. Of course, financial investments are also needed, but believe me, the benefits are highly multiple. On the other hand, I would mention the problem is limited access to these programmes due to weak financial opportunities for my own participation. Here it is said for IPA programmes and characteristic that participation from the European Commission is 85%, 15% had to be provided mostly by partners, carriers and others in that part. It was less at the state level. But it should be seen that for those programmes and projects that are particularly relevant to underdeveloped and less developed areas, the participation of the state should be much greater and especially for the mountainous and mountainous areas, the area of special state care must be defined by stronger support. And what's said, the border is always a challenge but also a great limit. I said not only because of mines but also because in border areas it was always harder to work, to live, and now by opening these borders too, we need to take advantage of them. I would also mention another restriction and problem from my own experience when working on projects should take a long time and you never know what will happen from that part. You apply the project here from experience, so all these calls were in three levels and all the third level has already been completed in dissensions. But you have a case of the IPA programme, meaning international co-operation between Croatia and Slovenia where this project was the last third race last year in the 4th month. Now it's been almost a year and a half, and we don't have a solution, and we don't have a choice who got it, whether we got it or not. And what's the problem? Well, the problem is that you have reported certain programs and projects that you need for your development of local and regional communities. And it's justifiable costs that are just being created after you sign the contract. And you, for a particular project, have to wait a year and a half, maybe two years, to start working if you get it because what you're going to do won't be recognised as a legitimate cost. On the other hand, the problem is that all these costs you planned a year and a half ago within the coster are already much higher. And if you get that project now, then those consumers you've defined are unrealistic and you're going to have to invest a lot of your own resources again so you can finish that program. Not only that, there is a great danger that this project will not be recognized and that what is said falls into your water. Finally, what we really want on behalf of the HNS Club, and we want to support and support all these drafts of the law in particular and by an urgent procedure, because this financing agreement comes into force first and foremost on the day on which the European Commission receives written notice that internal legal requirements in the Republic of Croatia for its entry into force have been met, which means that the implementation of the projects to be financed by this financing agreement cannot be launched before that. There is a legitimate interest in his as soon as possible. It is up to us to accept, as soon as possible, that we can implement all these measures to get the resources that are important to contribute greatly to increasing and building the capacity of local and regional national institutions that these new cohesion structural funds are available to us and exploit. And I'm particularly glad to hear that these IPA programs are more than 90% usable, which means that we've prepared well that we've had good support from the ministries and that, with optimism, of course, we want to use the resources at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50717	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50718	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. It was common in previous discussions when Mr. Puljiz was here to have some misunderstandings mainly in relation to the statistical division of Croatia into two regions, and it is also related to the withdrawal of funds from European funds. But today, these nine laws that we are discussing, or legislative proposals, that we are discussing unitedly, I think there will be no such screaming tones in my debate, so we will end up peacefully. Although it's 2,972 pages of material so about 3,000 pages, there are 28 missing up to 3,000 and it's really hard to learn half a year or a year more than anatomy at the Medical Faculty has material so that the anatomy was three semesters, so it's hard in 15 minutes to say everything that could be found in these materials. Today we have before us legislative proposals to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning Croatia-BiH, Croatia-Serbia, Croatia-Montenegro, Croatia-Hungarian and Adriatic countries under the cross-border co-operation component as well as in the framework of pre-accession assistance, and all together in the IPA programme. All the counties in our country, their development agencies have some experience in these projects. Some of our Slavonian counties, Osijek-Baranja, seem to me, and both Brod-Posavina have quite good experience and have withdrawn a good part of the money as well as the Deputy Minister himself said that I would not talk about the monetary amount in the euro to which it relates, but Osijek-Baranja County and cross-border cooperation with Hungary then with the areas in Baska, Vukovar-Srijem with areas in Srijem, Brod-Posaviska also with areas in Macva, as I remember having good experience in withdrawing these funds and so far with the candidate countries in the EU because here we can finally count on being a member of the EU. It is good that this component continues to exist and will support it as pre-accession assistance or assistance to a pre-accession fund for countries that are candidates for EU accession that open or open pre-accession negotiations. In fact, the plenary sessions of the EU parliament could also conclude that by 2020 there will be no new income in the EU. This is the final conclusion of the EU parliament, so no one will be admitted by 2020 unless parliament changes its mind in the meantime. So here we have 6, 7 years to last these programmes from this IPA component in which Croatia can participate as today is participating with us Slovenia which is already a member from earlier, Hungary, Italy already established EU countries which is good for Croatia. Centres for monitoring the implementation or implementation of these agreements, or funding between our government, are here as someone said they are in countries already EU members and not in Croatia. And I believe that it does not take too much work and effort to convince the European Commission that such centres for monitoring the implementation of the future in programmes that will follow for 2015, 2016 and Croatia, and compared to cross-border co-operation with BiH, Serbia, Montenegro. 15% of the money is the own funds provided by the Republic of Croatia, either from the Regional Development Fund, hence the state budget, or from the regional self-government units. It is true that these projects are such that in fact direct profits from the projects themselves, there is no direct profit. I don't see this investment in manufacturing activities, so in creating new goods and therefore there's no direct profit. But the benefit of that, the cost of benefit arrives slowly, slowly and slightly delayed because if it's about infrastructure then in any case it's much cheaper or faster to get some paved road to some farm than some kind of macadam or white road. So the thing is, the program, the project helped as much as it helped anyone who is involved in production. The question has also been raised here on the Structural Funds, i.e. somehow tell cohesion where the Republic of Croatia is in negotiations and in the talks called the Prague Group, etc., estimated around 11.5 billion euros by 2020. I hope that the tenders for these funds will be announced soon and that there will also be projects for these funds, cohesion, structural resources. It is difficult to say about the content itself and the careful breakdown of these materials because we have 3,000 pages we have received in 15 minutes but I am personally based on Mr. Deputy Minister's speech satisfied that the use of these IPA funds for 2012 and 2013. 90%. This is a good result and at the level of the results of the Republic of Poland when it has withdrawn its funds and if it continues to be so it will be good because we will actually realise far more than what we apply as a member of the European Union, that is 600 million euros per year for membership in the European Union or 4.5 billion kuna. Because of what I said and what I still think was more politics than technology and good will, this Peljek bridge that we talked about yesterday, the day before, and when we were already discussing last week, that the stalemate was more due to policy action, mainly by these laws, which will change the day after tomorrow by raising our hands, which has changed 28.6. I won't call him any name because it's not the topic of the current debate. But that the delay with the decision to build the Peljega Bridge, and by the help of the European Union, has stopped precisely because it is not good, but if this aid is realised in this sense and in this direction clearly, it is more than a great thing, because there is no other island than Dubrovnik-Neretva County, because it is completely physically separated from the rest of the territory, the rest of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and thus from the European Union. So I expect that this project of the Peljega Bridge will already be here, already these days of October, so the promise is November of this year when a decision on the participation of the European Commission, i.e. the European Union on participation, will be made on a monetary transaction in connection with the construction of the Peljega Bridge. Here's why I'm saying that the HDSSB club will support all nine of these legal proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50719	The SDSS Club will be spoken of by a respected representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50720	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the Ministry's representative. So in a few sentences, I'm just going to say the SDSS's position on this issue. So we've united these 6-7 points here and we've had a unique debate, although each of these programs could be practically spoken of separately, but for some practical reasons we've accepted that it's spoken uniquely, unitedly. In any case, we welcome this proposal for an agreement, and we will support it as a club, so we support the proposal for a bill to confirm the co-financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, all of these projects, because we believe that this is already 5 to 12, so it was necessary to ratify this kind of agreement, practically confirm that these agreements are being confirmed and move towards the operationalisation of these programmes. If we had done so earlier, we would have probably already had a third call, and if we had a third call, we would probably have had a higher use and implementation of these projects in some percentages. Unfortunately, we didn't do that. Osijek-Baranja County has a very strong service which, a development agency that is very successful in dealing with all these problems, is very successful in monitoring these projects and they have certain experience in this matter. So, I'm not going to talk about these texts now, but in a few sentences, I'm going to transfer the experience of the Development Agency of Osijek-Baranja County regarding the implementation of the IPA program. They, since we and the Vukovar-Srijem County are leaning naturally on the Republic of Serbia on the one hand and the Republic of Hungary, cross-border co-operation applies most attractively to us in these two countries. So, experiences say, above all, high expectations were from units of local self-government, regional self-government, even some state institutions of these projects and realisation is quite modest. When we combine experience in the implementation of these projects into the previous two calls with the Republic of Hungary as a member of the European Union and with the Republic of Serbia, which is not a member of the European Union, then we see that these things are not the same. What's this about? When it comes to the Republic of Serbia, the third call for grant was announced in 6 months 2012. Because not all pre-conditions were created, the agreement was not signed, the tender was not opened even though all the details and rules of the competition were known before. Therefore, it was a public IPA programme for the period 2007 to 2013 and nothing in this was unknown. And experience also says that this is a significant fault, we must say openly, is in the slowness of the administration at national level. From the announcement of the tender to the final signing of the contract with those approved for more than a year, therefore more than a year has passed. When such a thing is therefore directly registered in the European Union to the EU in Brussels, then the whole procedure takes a lot shorter in some programmes already in three months the results of the competition are known. So it's kind of a comparative of our administrative efficiency. Here I have to say that the advantage of cross-border cooperation with the Republic of Serbia in these projects is that the funds for the implementation of the projects are obtained in advance of 80% as said here. So, 80% of the cost for the first year, which greatly facilitates the implementation of the project. It is a shame, therefore, that we have not taken this opportunity and allowed our regional and local units of local self-government to withdraw as much of these funds as possible. Why do I say that? Because compared with countries, EU members such as Hungary are a completely different situation. It's getting more and more administratively ready. The third call was long ago, the implementation of the projects had already begun in early 2013. The benefits are of course that the procedure from the announcement of the tender to the final signing of the contract is much shorter than these procedures I said with the Republic of Serbia, are much clearer and more orderly, therefore, easier for users to cope with. However, the problem is the funds, the means to implement the projects must be realised from their own sources at 100% in cross-border cooperation with the Republic of Hungary. In addition, after the first four months of the reporting period from the competent authorities, declarations of the funds spent correctly are obtained but the return of those same funds according to the experience so far is never less than ten months. What does this practically mean for the users of these funds? This means that if the project lasts for a year and is worth some 300,000 euros, one who must therefore finance it in a 100% amount and successfully wrote it to be successfully rated it will be practically punished by its own inequity because it lacks, it lacks those 300,000 euros. And the question of when they'll get it. So we think that in this respect, the state as the main contractor has not provided sufficient mechanisms to monitor such a problem and this significantly reduces the possibility of applying. After completing the project, experience somehow says, the 10-month circus passes for a concrete cost refund that we had to assume in a 100% amount for such a single project. That is why I say that local self-government units often come into financial problems when they go towards cross-border cooperation projects with EU countries. So we here can ask whether the state has provided sufficient funds to pre-financing these 80% of the resources to users, therefore local and regional self-governments or institutions so that they can participate equally or completely consume these projects that we are now talking about. That's one question. Another thing you should say about here as some kind of thing that needs to be done is the database. And experience has it that there is no one place so far, so we don't have a base, we don't have data on the use of the IPA component because they're working, they're run by different ministries and they're guided by different criteria. Therefore, the proposal is and we think that we should create here a single database of the use of projects and of those projects that are in the phase of implementation and then know mainly what we are talking about. It is certainly said here and we fully agree that to consume these projects completely requires one human capacity, one professional capacity which unfortunately does not have enough in local self-government units. And we need to understand that right now the biggest investment society has just been investing in this kind of personnel. In particular, such a need is particularly felt in areas of special state concern where if there is a means to produce these projects, project documentation, etc., there are no people who are still ready to deal with this thing. It certainly is a very important, very big problem, therefore a significant problem and a lack of resources from units of regional and local self-government to pre-financing these projects. It's a little bit of a talk. Local self-government units for cross-border cooperation must finance this thing, unless they have to join together, so some model of association is something that's possible. However, it is also possible for the county to include certain funds, with certain funds. However, the county, or regional self-government, has this possibility in a limited number of times so that the matter is often subject to some political agreement, or politicising about such funding. It is our proposal for the ministry to consider, in this case, to try to find some kind of a type of guarantee fund and try to establish some kind of guarantee fund where certain projects that are considered to be good for local and regional self-government would allow pre-financing funds, and then the state would later be refunded and so successfully completed projects. So these are some of our field experiences. We think in this reading it's an emergency procedure. We think this law should go because it's about time he was adopted. I think we should have had it before, if we had adopted it before, probably local self-government units would be more effective in realising certain projects and satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50721	Thank you. Since Deputy Pugliz doesn't want to take the final word, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the law when the conditions are met. I would also like to thank Deputy Pugliz and all those who took part in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50722	Final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the Cross-border Cooperation Programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2012, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 462. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I find it unanimous with 117 votes to pass the P.Z. Act. No. 462 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50835	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is - The Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol amending and supplementing the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in countering corruption through the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 473. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50836	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A memorandum of agreement on co-operation in countering corruption through the Southeastern European anti-corruption initiative was signed in 2007 and signed by Southeast European countries with Croatia, so Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Macedonia, Moldova and Romania. In 2010, Serbia joined the memorandum. The memorandum is an international act and it has, as such, experienced an amendment in 2013 in the sense that signatories countries have signed a Protocol amending part of the memorandum relating to the name of the initiative itself. So this is no longer the Stability Pact's anti-corruption initiative, but a regional anti-corruption initiative. The amendment was then made with regard to the name of the managing bodies of the regional anti-corruption initiative. The possibility for other countries to join the memorandum and to be bound by the memorandum has also been resolved. In this respect, provisions on entry into force have also been added to the countries which would or will subsequently accede to the Memorandum. And, of course, the entry into force of the very protocol that this memorandum is changing. Since the Republic of Croatia has signed that Protocol and it is an international legal act in accordance with Article 141 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution is important and necessary in the appropriate procedure of this international agreement in the confirmation process to be fully transposed into the legal system of our country and, in that sense, the Republic of Croatia makes it a legal part of its order. Based on its activities in the regional anti-corruption initiative, the Republic of Croatia will continue its activities in this area in accordance with this Protocol. We therefore propose that the Confirmation Act be confirmed by the said Protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50837	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And since we don't have anyone reported for this debate, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50838	The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol amending and supplementing the Memorandum of Consent relating to cooperation in countering corruption through the anti-corruption initiative of Southeast Europe, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 473. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 117 votes for Law P.Z. No. 473 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50839	We move to: - Proposal for a law on spatial planning, first reading, P.Z. No. 466. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50840	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Indeed, as the esteemed Mr. Shucker has said, it is a very complex and very important matter. So, I'm sure there's no one in our ranks who in his working and living life hasn't met once with the need to get permission not to build anything or that at least someone close to him had nothing to do with this problem. We are really in one big project, a state-of-the-art project. As you've had the opportunity to see in that state-of-the-art project, we've made the Law on Legalization. This Law on Legalization has shown about, or rather, our citizens have shown us what the situation is and what problems we have. Likewise, in front of this distinguished Parliament this spring, we had a report on the situation in the space that we discussed and showed what is equally the situation in the space. And now we're going with three laws. One law is about spatial arrangement, the other is about construction and the third is about construction inspection. It's about laws that are one of the instruments of fixing the situation in space. We will be able to say that the work is done as far as we are concerned when we come before this distinguished House with a new spatial planning strategy, that is, the development of the Republic of Croatia, and beyond that with a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia, or a spatial plan to define what and how the Republic of Croatia is thinking and what it means to do further. The first in a set of these three laws is the Law on Spatial Planning. The law on spatial planning introduces a number of newspapers. Enters a string of new settings. So let me start with the spatial plans first. Thus, the Law on Spatial Planning defines a new system of spatial planning documents, i.e. spatial plans. What do we have today? Today, we have a strategy and a program of spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by the 97 Strategy. The program from 99 a change and additions from this year below we have spatial plans of the county, we have spatial planning of the settlement of municipalities and cities, we have urban planning and detailed planning of the arrangements. In 2007, we gave up, we said we didn't want any more GUPs, but they've been in effect for 10 years. We are now introducing a hierarchy where there is a state spatial plan, below which remains a spatial plan of the county and spatial plans of municipalities and cities. What defines the state spatial plan? The national spatial plan in the future, based on the spatial development strategy, defines the conditions and methods and facilities of importance for the state. The spatial plan of the state does not enter the building areas of the settlement, does not enter isolated construction areas outside the settlement, does not enter any of its elements into the authority of the municipalities and cities. The state spatial plan defines extremely valuable agricultural land of national importance, forest land also of national importance, the infrastructure of state importance is defined and economic areas of importance are defined for the development of the state. Of course, it can only be one small number of economic zones and exactly how many of them it will be we will see through strategies and through all procedures, evaluations and strategic assessments of environmental impacts and impacts and impacts on nature. It's a spacious county plan. The spacious county plan defines procedures of interest for the county equally does not enter the construction areas of the settlement isolated construction areas outside the settlement but defines procedures of importance for the county. And we're coming up with a spatial plan to organize a municipality or city that is sovereignly managed by its construction area of the settlement, its separate building area outside the settlement and has an opportunity that is not available today. When it comes to economic zones, whether they are intended for industry or economy, whether they are intended for sport or for tourism, the area today defines a spatial plan of the county. Under this law, municipalities will have opportunities themselves, in accordance with their own development to a certain area, to define their own zones and thus control their own premises. We're returning the GUP not because we think we should go back to some old one now. For the simple reason those of you who come from big cities without wanting to insult any other city but the cities are operating today on the GUP. A Sibenik also talks today about its GUP, a Split and today talks about its GUP Split, one Zadar gave up its GUP and installed it in a spatial plan for the simple reason that it could work without talking about a Zagreb that operates on GUP today. The GUPs are all who were in accordance with the law still in force and will continue to be. And of course, the urban planning remains as an operational plan. The newspaper in the planning system is the following, spatial plans for the arrangement of municipalities and cities, unlike today, have the possibility of parts for which they can unequivocally determine the transport network and the basic infrastructure, determine this in the spatial plan of the arrangement of the municipality and the city and do not have to do urban planning for this. What does that mean? So our plans are faster, more operational, and our space management is cheaper than it is today. All spatial plans are in effect, no spatial plan has to change. All spatial plans will be in effect and beyond. The first time there's gonna be a need to change, then it's gonna be in line with the law. What's the important paper? Important news is ISPU – the information system of spatial planning. Those of you who have their laptops or any time nice please can go to the Ministry's website. In the right lower corner are icons, houses called the Information System of Spatial Editing. Of all 556 spatial plans for the arrangement of municipalities and cities that are now more than half effective is already integrated into ISPU. What does ISPU mean? At any time anyone can very easily come up with information that is available on his real estate whether it's a land particle or whether it's a building which is a spatial plan that can get data from the NIP on NATURI 2000, there can be data on the relative to some large infrastructure whether something is planned and thus we're opening something that is the greatest value of these three sets of laws. I can say that when someone sells real estate and deals with this business, then they say what's most important in that business. It says location, location, location. What's most important in our business? Information, information, information. This means the whole process in which you today can even know what you can build, you have to turn three phones and spend about one shoe to go around and see what it is. The whole system is based on information. That means at any time we're getting information on what's planned. When we know what's planned then we know and what's our future. But more importantly, the ISPU will be required to conduct a public debate. Any change and addition of the spatial plan will be on ISPU, as well as any newly adopted spatial plan will be there. In this way, we will not have what we have today, which is that a spatial plan has entered into a public debate, that there have been objections, and that when you compare what were observations and what it says is adopted or not adopted, it does not correspond to what was actually adopted. The PDO – the protected coastal area of the sea is one area that is extremely important. I must say and take this opportunity that Croatia is one of the few countries that had criteria in the PDO in its legislation back in '67. the year when it was an obligation to be in the PDO, that each municipality would define the PDO through its municipal plan and that it could not be built in the PUP without the PUP, so that today, when you look at the settlement, or one Solaris or one Halud or one Babi's hip, they were created between '69. and '71. the year on the basis of the PUP when there was no word on the PDO in this way, and the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean has actually come to Europe through America and through the Michigan Lakes that wanted to protect their space there. '94. We no longer have a PDO by adopting the Law on Spatial Planning, and then they happened to us in a big expansion of construction really that this coastal line began without criteria and in 2004 a regulation was adopted. The regulation protected the PDO. The elements of the regulation were incorporated into the law in 2007. Today we also have the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean, which has been ratified by the Honorable Assembly, which is the obligation and the directives in relation to the European Union and we are equally elements of the PDO, with all municipalities and cities that, regardless of what part of the border with the coastal line, have the obligation to apply the protocol, and we have restrictions in 1000 m which we have greater than that protocol says. This amendment, that is, by this law, I apologize, we have allowed something that has seemed to us based on the demands we have had, which is that the islands are also worth 1000 m restrictions as it is true for the mainland as well. In the transmitted what does that really mean? It means that the islands that remain part of the territory that I say "meat" under quotes outside of 1,000 meters in that space could happen to wind power plants if it passes from the aspect of nature and environment protection and could be exploited by mineral raw materials of technical stone for the simple reason that this restriction that today is in the five-hectare law and 5000 cubic meters has actually proved to be in a certain way in a certain way, and there have been enormous remarks. And we gave one option in the PDO that there is no law and that uninhabited islands can get a berth, that they can get a berth, that a normal berth can be made and that someone with a boat can come here, or other words, to get the conditions that all those illegal attachments that are located on such islands in terms of visiting get their own legality. What is important news in the law? There are two significant developments in the law, and these are isolated areas outside the settlement of economic purposes if they are located in a spatial plan and if in 5 years no urban planning is adopted or started with basic municipal equipment, basic municipal equipment is defined in the concept, which is the construction of road, construction of electricity, construction of plumbing and disposal. If that does not happen within five years, then the building area, a separate building area of special purpose, so the purpose for the economy ceases to be a building area and these hectares that were planned, can be planned at another location through the process of changing and supplementing the plan. This is how we want to achieve the right rational space management. And if you'll allow me to really use in a few sentences the example that today was, today at the ministry was a meeting, it was a single spatial plan of the county that has 1200 hectares intended for economic zones, intended for tourism. And through the change and addition of some municipalities they have been reduced, in some increased and there are 30 acres of dispute left. And now it remains questionable whether these 30 acres can be, can't be. And I ask a question of those 1200 acres how much was built, how much was really built and how much was really brought in for it. About 10% of the 1200 hectares are 10% taken in for a purpose, 90% are not brought in for a purpose, but we need some new hectares again and we're talking about 1200 hectares. I also asked the question of how many of these zones have made urban planning. And the answer I get is that for 7 zones are made urban planning arrangements and at a certain stage of making five urban plans is in the design phase and the zones are planned for about 20 years. It just means that one of our inclinations is to book space for a future time, but we don't open space for real investment that knocks on the door. Similarly, there is a provision in Article 52 which speaks of the compensatory conditions as it is written, so it is written and perhaps a little rougher but it means the following. In the planning phase, you do all the analysis, all the studies, all the evaluations. In the planning phase we also work on a strategic impact assessment on the environment, we also work on the impact on nature. But one day when one economic zone, let's say, is meant for an industry that we have less and less and less in space, then we no longer discuss whether this economic zone from the aspect of environmental protection and nature can be there. Then the environmental impact assessments will be done in a way that we can only discuss technology, the gauges, some additional measures but no more about the zone. What does that mean? You have the opportunity to really read and see and see what the perception of investors are when they come to Croatia. The perception of investors is when they come to Croatia that in the beginning it is all possible that we are all very favored and then when they enter the whole process then from step to step they actually open... with new problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We want to create spatial plans or spatial planning documents with clear criteria and clear conditions. So any of the little investors who are going to work their family house up to God's permission to come and the big investors who are going to be ready with certain investments to enter these premises so that they know from the beginning what's waiting for them on the way, and they also know what they can get as planned and what, what's their hodogram. There's another newspaper I'm warning you about, and that's, that's responsibility. So we now have a formal responsibility but essentially we don't. And today, our designers, when they sign the project, regardless of the project, will talk a little bit more about it on the Construction Act, so our designers, when they sign the project, when they sign the spatial plan or better put the idea project on their seal and by their signature, guarantee that it was all done in accordance with all the laws, sublaws, according to everything and countless cases, we have that today's location permit is neatly rejected because the idea project is not done in accordance with the spatial plan, although the designers have signed that everything is fine. Responsibility should be for everyone in this process. The responsibility of those who design, who by their seal and signature guarantee that they've done everything right, but also the responsibility and responsibility of the people we are, I won't say on the other hand because I think we're all the same side, responsibility and all the colleagues who work on issuing the permits. From Section 114 to 117 of the Law on Spatial Planning, we are talking about injuries and we are talking about the possibility we have not had so far, which is if the Ministry annulled the first-degree solution and the case returned to the retrial and subject regardless of the direction that it was necessary to do so again, and that, and that, the first-degree body did not do so, when we get the same resolved object that we have the possibility of launching a tight procedure against someone who did so. For what reason? For the reason that we do have cases that, for five, six times, cases are resolved in one way in the first degree, the ministry cancels and returns to the re-trial, the first step-by-step body does not work according to what the ministry said. Similarly, when in future administrative supervision someone finds that someone has issued a local authorisation in a place where he could not betray or betray it and he could not, there is the possibility of a strict procedure against such referents. We introduced that into the law, there was a lot of discussion in the field when we had a public debate on the law. And then you have this double feeling, on the one hand those who feel called, so it really bothers them about those who say I don't mind at all, we do our job well, and we don't have that kind of fear. The theme of the location permit. I would just remind myself that the location permit was introduced in 94 and that there was a reasonable, justified and professional reason for the location permit. The reason was that it was a Croatian state at that time, so very young. It was then that we inherited the spatial plans 101 of the municipality plus the city of Zagreb. So, we had 115 municipalities, but it was 101 because the city of Zagreb had one spatial plan and the location permit actually covered some of the planning because it was planned in a certain way, it was worth 2 years and each investor was in that case protected from any changes in spatial plans and any other things. Today, we no longer have that excuse for the location permit. We have left a local permit for the following cases: for the exploitation of mineral raw materials for reasons why the location permits for the exploitation of mineral raw materials are subject to a construction permit under the second law. It's the Mining Act. For the procedures in which the extradition is concerned, because the location permit... for cases that are not considered to be construction, and then this is how it always confuses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm using one example that's actually a clear runway for everyone or, say, such a farm airport. What does a farm airport mean? On the existing meadow, a few stakes are stuck, and these planes take off and land, but they need special conditions from the aspect of some other regulations, perhaps even in some case a certain assessment. It's not construction, but it's a procedure in space that needs to be planned with a spatial plan. And we left a location permit for complex procedures, so for example, the already mentioned tourist zone, which is a convenient example for all cases. So, one big tourist zone. There may be a marina, two hotels, one tourist resort, and it may be several operators or several investors in the future. Indeed, for such a procedure is a local permit and for reasons to define both procedures and stages and everything else and simply not to have one investor enter the building permit for other investors. So, it's still here I have so few hints, but I think the most important and important things I've said. By means of the spatial arrangement law, we introduce a system of spatial planning in such a way that any spatial plan can be operational, that it is operational for its level. In doing so, no one is deprived of any ingenuity, but somehow we feel that everyone should plan their level and be responsible for their decision-making system. The location permit remains, so for minimum procedures in the space with the tendency to have it in the future at all. And so we have two newspapers, one newspaper is that by law we have the possibility of abolishing the zone of a separate purpose after a certain number of years and that hectare somewhere else. And I repeat this responsibility again to all those involved in this process, and the basis of everything is the information system of spatial order, the information system of spatial arrangement is complete, established. By the end of the year, we will have all the spatial planning of the settlement of municipalities and cities on the information system. We will also have spatial plans at a lower level and thanks to the information system we will be able to manage the space, and there somewhere at the end of next year when we hope to have opportunities in front of this respected House to present the Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, then we will also show what this information system will ultimately mean, and ultimately it will mean that in every real estate, in every building built by it we have information about the status of that building in the space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50841	I thank Minister Dark-Taritash. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? Yeah? Oh, no? A colleague, Zdravko Ronko, president of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50842	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At its 22nd session held yesterday, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on spatial regulation, which was, that is, a bill submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament, which was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 12 September this year. In accordance with the provisions of Article 93, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction shall, in accordance with the provisions of Article 93 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on spatial planning and spent it as a parent working body. Representatives of the Association of Architects, Croatian Chamber of Architects, Green Action and permanent court expert Vladimir Krtalić participated in the paper. In the opening statement of the representatives of the building and spatial planning ministers, she said she expected that the adoption of the proposed law would remove existing shortcomings and that this would have a favourable impact on economic investment in construction and other economic branches, and that conditions for effective management of spatial goods would be created and thus would allow planning at the state and regional level for procedures that are of national or county importance without the adoption of spatial plans of lower levels. Special emphasis is also given to newspapers in simple, fast and free access to public information and information on space so-called. The ISPU for all interested entities for space operation and the hierarchical relationship is established between the Central Authority of State and local and regional self-government, strengthening their responsibility in issuing local permits and other acts in implementing spatial planning. In the debate, a comprehensive debate followed also referred to a ground for a solution that significantly reduces the role of local self-government units in planning in space, hence the state importance and stressed that local self-government units should be participants in certain decisions when they enter that space. And it has also been asked to specify more precisely the role of the county and local self-government units in determining the area of tourism importance. The need to develop development programmes for the next 15 years is also highlighted and envisions an activity that is most effective for the development of a specific area. A well-assessed obligation to adopt a detailed plan of arrangements for areas where urban cohesion is carried out is also highlighted and the problem is not sufficiently clearly arranged when agricultural land becomes a building site in the development of an area. The question is also considered a provision governing the planning of catering and sports purposes in view of the problem of golf courses and is assessed as a step backwards since the possibility of building buildings in the area of sports... The debate also highlights the role of the architectural profession to play a role in promoting excellence in this area and to act in the function of urban development and quality of life in general. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the discussion was held, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority of votes, so 6 for, 2 against and 1 abstention to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion: - a proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning is adopted and all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate are addressed to the Proposer for the final preparation of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50843	Thank you. Now, counterpart Branko Bačić will present the views of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50844	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. The Committee held a joint discussion on the proposal for this law and the proposal for a Construction Act and a proposal for a Construction Inspectorate Act. In its opening statement, the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning pointed out that the adoption of the law in question and the Construction and Construction Inspection Act would introduce a transparent system for investors and provide conditions for effective management of existing goods. The papers are presented in part of the system of spatial plans, the content of spatial plans, the instruments of implementation of spatial plans and the supervision of the implementation of this law and the importance of the establishment of an information system of spatial order. The meeting of the Committee attended the president of the Association of Croatian Architects from the point of view of environmental protection referred to two newspapers introduced by the proposed law. It is about the proposed abolition of committees for the assessment of architectural success in construction bodies, and important for achieving... the construction of space and control and promotion of quality idea solutions. In this regard, it is important that the proposed law encourages local self-government units to establish independent bodies for judgment. Furthermore, it was noted that, in accordance with the proposed law, the spatial plans of the State or of the county would include implementing elements and could already be used by them for individual procedures of national and county importance. The question is expressed so that these implementing provisions are in the plans of this order which are strategic and define the basic guidelines. It was assessed that the above poses a great danger to draw detailed data from the plans of the large scale i.e. from the general plans to cause adequate large errors in the area, which is particularly dangerous for example in tourist areas along the coast. The president of the Croatian Chamber of Architects mentioned briefly some of the remarks sent by the chamber to the competent ministry, which are based on the architectural policy of the Republic of Croatia on the protection of space, the protection of all participants in the construction process, the protection of the professional methodology of work and the acceleration of procedures. In connection with the space and security of the architectural quality of the procedure in space, he stressed the importance of the action of committees to assess the architectural performance and the implementation of urban and architectural competitions and the integration of provisions of the Regulation on competitions in law. From the point of view of investor protection, it is also proposed to obtain specific conditions on the basis of... project, which is based on an information system of spatial arrangements for which it will take some time to live. As part of the Croatian Chamber of Architects, the President of the Committee of Regional Architects stressed the need to reconsider the possibility of being installed into this law on the trail of the European Convention on the landscape of landscapes. The present representative of "Green Action" stressed that Article 68(2) is not fully in line with... the Convention since it allows for a response to a certain cross-reference of the objections, rather than any objections to the spatial plan of the regional and state level. With regard to the state spatial development plan, which provides for implementing measures, it has been warned of incurring local level, it is proposed to delete the provision of Article 44 in the part which, unlike the applicable law, is now permitted to build accommodation and catering facilities on golf courses and to install a provision prohibiting the construction of accommodation facilities on golf courses. In the follow-up to the debate, it is generally supported that the adoption of this and the other two laws create preconditions for faster investment realization, but the unacceptable assessment of the applicant's finding that the biggest and most harmful flaw that directly prevents the achievement of assumptions for improving economic and social development is unacceptablely a major impact of regional and local spatial planning plans at the national level, especially on the implementation of procedures in the area of importance for the state and local spatial planning plans at regional level. Following this position, the proposed legal solutions are centralisation allowing the state, or county, to impose certain solutions on local self-government units in their territory. On the other hand, it noted that the applicant lost sight of the situation in which the state has stalled local development in cases where certain planned zones are not put into operation because the implementation of projects is expected of national importance. During the debate on several occasions, it was pointed out that the proposed law is a regional and local self-government delegated powers stemming from the constitution of guaranteed rights and that new legal solutions fall outside the European Charter of Local Self-Government and abolish the level of local self-government rights achieved. It has been found that the drive to improve the system of spatial justice by reducing the powers of local self-government units. It has been stressed that the protection of space, environment and other spatial values has ceased to be one of the basic and mandatory constituents of the adoption of spatial plans. It has been observed that the mandatory content of spatial plans in the section relating to environmental protection of this law is undermined by the applicable law. It is estimated that environmental protection and also in part of the PDO is a protected coastal area compared to the existing law set to a lower level. The proposer's representatives were asked to interpret why the proposed law in the procedure of issuing a local authorisation as a party to an exclusive public institution for the management of national parks and parks of nature, and the unit of local self-government in which the procedure is planned in the area. After the debate was held, by a majority of votes of 6 votes in favour, 3 votes against the decision to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, the proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning and point 2 of all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50845	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Zdravko Ronko, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50846	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have had opportunities for a long time to hear and see we are in a large system of fixing the situation in space in order to come to a new strategy of spatial development and a new spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia. This also requires a recording of the situation, it is certainly a legalisation that we will see and we have already seen how illegal it is or what is illegal, which we can legalize and put into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and what is not. And that's why we need instruments, which are laws that regulate that matter. So far, the law which now exists and covered all the extensive matter has been unspeakable in some parts of the unspeakable, legally unsettled precisely because of this scope and needs to be better regulated by specific legal proposals, the concrete adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Construction and the Law on Construction. The new laws to be passed were made on the EU tradition and on the tradition of the spatial arrangement that was in Croatia, all of which was done with the aim of speeding up the process and their transparent implementation in order to reduce the space for irregularities and manipulation. The drafts of these laws were conducted a comprehensive public debate involving all the interested and professional public so that the legal text itself is a good basis for adopting the same, of course after all the additional proposals that will come from the upcoming debate. The ISPU system itself, therefore, is the Information System of Spatial Editing, as one of the most significant moments that has been incorporated into this proposal, launched with the aim of accessing public information and data in the area of spatial planning to be easy, fast and free for all. And all this reform and all the other laws that need to be passed are related to the process of spatial regulation that needs to be open, public, transparent, easy to act, which includes the responsibility of all participants, quick decision-making and accessibility to all. We believe that this proposal does so. The SDP representative club will support this legislative proposal because it is the basis for the settlement of the situation in the Republic of Croatia, but also for all kinds of and all kinds of public participation in the processes and procedures of decision-making and space-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50847	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50848	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Ministers with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So here is the opening of the debate on Mr Shucker's Law on Spatial Planning, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, asked for a separate debate under these three laws, hence the Law on Spatial Planning, the Construction Act and the Law on Construction Inspection. The chairman of this moment probably also asked the Government or the Ministry for a joint discussion of the three laws to be held, and it encouraged me in a certain way to say in my introduction that by saying that the Government or the Minister and the Ministry are seeking a united debate on the three laws, this approach seems to be questionable that the existing law is divided into three laws, because if the matter handled by these three laws is so different now, and which is why the ministry decided to go into three laws, then also on the parent board a single debate and on the Committee on Environmental Protection, a single debate, and which is why we should go to the plenary session in a single debate if it imposed the need to draft three laws instead of one law on spatial planning and construction. The division of the existing Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of Three Laws for Spatial Planning and Construction and, consequently, for a specific law building inspection is unnecessary and, in my view, is not sufficiently justified in a way that speaks of the opacity of the existing law. Because the result of these three laws has increased the total number of provisions and articles. In a certain way, unnecessary areas have been mixed, such as energy efficiency and construction. And the Law on Construction Inspectorate, which contains part of the regulation of the powers of the communal director, does not suit me... But the government has decided to separate this issue into three laws, and that is its right, and the clear majority will decide on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I just wanted to get in my introduction and to that part, to touch that part. What motivation has asked the government to propose these laws. What the public, the statement by the ministry and the ministry, i.e. the government could read in the first order, is to simplify and speed up all procedures to encourage the investment climate in Croatia. Furthermore, the wish is to raise the level of competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia mainly in the part of the administrative barriers and complications relating to the issue of construction permits. And in this sense, for us at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, such an effort is absolutely legitimate and the government wants to make such legal solutions clearly competitive and attractive for Croatia. However, the view of the Croatian Democratic Community Club is that if such goals are supported in principle, the bill ignores the very important settings that we have achieved so far in the spatial order and construction in the Republic of Croatia. What's this about? First of all, I should say that we have been members of the European Union for three months now since 1 July and that the area or activity of spatial planning and construction has no single European policy, so there is no acquis in terms of spatial planning and construction, each country has its own right to establish its own way in spatial planning and construction. So we haven't negotiated the spatial arrangement, we don't have a directive that would refer us to the Law on Spatial Planning and the Construction Act, and here we're left with our own initiative to define this system as we think it's the best. But what we have so far established and achieved by our spatial arrangement is that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I would say to the European Charter of Local Self-Government that we have significantly decentralisationd this system and the counties and, in particular, left great powers to cities and municipalities when it comes to spatial planning and construction. Especially a spatial arrangement. Thus far, spatial plans, clearly depending on the level they bring, have been adopted at the level of the county representative bodies, i.e. the county congregations and municipal and city councils. Now, for me and for us at the Croatian Democratic Community Club, this Law on Spatial Planning is a significant centralization of spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the existing spatial development strategy, which was adopted in the Croatian Parliament, this Law now adds to the adoption of a state spatial development plan and on what is a particularly dubious urban plan of arrangement and a two-way construction area outside the settlement for economic and/or public purpose of state importance. Therefore, if such a law is adopted in the area of units of local self-government without the participation of the unit of local self-government, the Croatian government will decide what will be built on it outside the reach of the county or local representative bodies. And in a procedure that this Law is not equal for a state like for a county or municipalities or cities. This seriously calls into question the authority of the local self-government unit, which, according to Article 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall have the right to carry out activities of spatial and urban planning on their own, by subjecting only to the supervision, constitutionality and legality of authorised state bodies. In addition, what is very important is the introduction of a state plan of spatial development is deviating from all of our current Croatian experiences and I say European experiences do not have to unite us because we do not have some in this sense, but even European experiences on this trail are not such that they would give us the right to lead a state spatial plan which, with its contents, deviates from and from the internal logic of the spatial plan process, especially for the reason why this state plan, which will make the Croatian Parliament an implementation for an unknown number and type of procedure in space. It should be pointed out that the real meaning of the centralisation of systems that the units of local self-government will be able to blackmail upon the adoption of a government regulation that will determine the structures of state and regional importance as well as procedures in the area not considered to be building and which will not be affected by the extent to which the local self-government units could decide so far. Furthermore, the process of drawing up and adopting spatial plans is not equally prescribed in respect of the demand for rights and obligations for the local level in relation to the state and county level, and in particular the report on the public debate. There has also been an increase in the number of spatial plans needed prior to adoption to obtain the consent of ministries such as GUPs, although the issue of consensus in cases of state-level spatial plans within the PDO has not been resolved, so when the issue... the plans for the arrangements adopted by the Government are then one situation and another situation when they are adopted at the level of units of local self-government particularly in the part of the protected coastal area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we certainly consider to be an inconsistencies in the adoption system. Furthermore, that the unit of local self-government was put into the second level is the fact that we in the club pointed out when the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings was passed and that it is now possible to obtain a building permit without paying the municipal and water contribution, which means a municipal contribution to the units of local self-government. It is not necessary to specify for the construction land to be arranged. The fact is that according to the performance of the building permit it is possible to approach the payment of the municipal contribution, but when the building permit is issued, in which way, it is likely that even within the associations of cities and municipalities there will be a possible debate. Furthermore, what seems to us to be another proof of further centralisation of the spatial arrangement in the Republic of Croatia is the fact that the County Office for Spatial Planning from now on can only be obtained from its director after the Minister, or the Minister, has agreed that it has not been the case so far. So also in the section in which we are talking about the Office for Spatial Planning, the appointment of the Director of the Institute is now subject to the previous consent of the Minister. In our second view, the important observation of this law refers to the devastation, i.e. the violation of the space protection achieved as unworthy resources of national wealth. The protection of space, environment and other spatial values has ceased to be one of the basic and mandatory content components of the adoption of spatial plans and spatial arrangements as a whole, and these tasks are marginalised entirely from the content of spatial plans, despite the supported objectives and principles of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. This can be read in an article of the existing law and compared to the existing law. Furthermore, the protected coastal area of the sea is defined within the administrative limits of the coastal units of local self-government only formally, and it is based on specific measures of restrictions prescribed only for the area within the range range of thousands of metres of land and island and sea belts from 300 metres to the coastal line as a restricted area. The formal extension of the border... is justified by the signed Protocol on integrated management of the coastal area of the Mediterranean without specific requirements and restrictions in spatial planning and when it comes to beaches and when it comes to the ports of nautical tourism, which will certainly affect the ports of nautical tourism and beaches in particular the category of maritime goods. Some of the existing and defined building conditions have been reduced by 100% of the existing ones, and other standards of great importance for how space is designed in the PDO have been deleted. Furthermore, when we talk about the protection of space, we do not understand why a public institution for the management of protected areas of nature is no longer a party to the procedure, as we do not understand why local self-government units are no longer in place. Also, when the state implements certain projects then the party in the process is not a neighbour, but when an ordinary citizen implements projects then the party is in the process of being a neighbour. So much of the legal provisions see one approach that reduces the importance of units of local self-government, and here we are talking about protecting space and public institutions for nature protection. According to us, the system of spatial plans, which has so far been established, without real justification, by increasing or reducing the number of types of spatial plans and by introducing a state spatial development plan that I have already talked about, is reintroduced a general urban plan rather than in principle for the central settlements of large cities or their parts and urban planning plan, thus by the same name, but with different content for three levels of planning. So now, at three levels of state, county and local, a plan of the same level will be adopted only for other purposes that the government will then adopt when it comes to urban planning of state-level regulation. So it can be said that the system of spatial plans is seriously affected by this approach offered in the spatial arrangement system. What we need to know in the Republic of Croatia, that by adopting this law very soon, if I may say so, there will be a need to change the 576 spatial plans of units of local and regional or regional self-government to comply with this law. A very large number, almost all the spatial plans adopted within a year will contain the need for change due to the adoption of changes in the context of urban transformation as stated in the law within 12 months. Unlike the current situation, local communities, local self-government units, cities and municipalities are left in the management of parts of their own space what remains of the state and county. So if the state and county don't manage something through the adoption of urban plans, this law will now belong to the units of local self-government, unlike the fact that by yesterday they brought all their space through spatial urban planning plans and municipalities of space and spatial planning. I agree that we shouldn't define zones forever in spatial plans, so if they don't get settled, if urban planning is not designed for them, if they don't start with basic infrastructure, they can't take up space forever, and they may not be able to disable maybe some other locations where that space is potentially but in realisation. But we need to think about whether five years is just enough time for some zone to be realized, and we know about both the situation and the crisis, etc. and at this point, the inability to invest does not have any new investments, is it possible to resolve such a provision. Here is the fact that we are running out of time, and I will say a few concrete examples later in an individual debate, but what I can conclude is that here on the committees we have received observations from the profession, the Croatian Architects' Association and the Chamber of Architects of the Republic of Croatia, which say that this law is not in line with the document adopted by the Government and the policies and they are simply asking that this law be withdrawn from the position of the architectural profession in the Republic of Croatia and to comply with what the Government has already adopted when it comes to the spatial arrangement in the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the HDZ Club cannot support such a law on spatial planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50849	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the replicas. Peter Baranovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50850	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleague Bačić, purely technical. During your presentation, you concluded that the minister requested a united debate on these three laws, and then you put it in the context of such a semi-serious or insufficiently serious approach to this matter. I don't know why you've reached such a conclusion because the minister didn't ask for a united debate. The Minister has come prepared for individual debates aware of the seriousness of these laws. And secondly, what you did was that after your club refused to share a united debate, you actually held a united debate by referencing among other things in your presentation to detail and commenting on the construction law, and on the agenda was the point of the Law on Spatial Planning. So, you're a little in contradiction within the HDZ club itself, I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50851	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50852	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You're wrong about your colleague Baranovic, unfortunately. In my introduction, I said that a united debate was held on the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection, as well as on the committee chaired by the Committee on Environment and Nature. That in his introduction, we may be able to listen to a stenogram from the introduction, beginning and opening of this debate, that Vice President Stazic said that he proposed a united debate at the government's request. So much for who requested a united debate. I am this united debate, and I expect to say because it was on board, so in that part, I was preparing my presentation. However, that fact, in my view, that a united debate is required, if you do not have enough signal that the reasons that say that the existing law needs to be divided into three parts, I do not know what the additional reason should be. If so much matter is separated from each other, then a common and united debate. Then we needed one thing because it was just that, and then the other law because it regulates the other, completely separate matter and then the third law because it regulates the third matter. And I said I don't doubt and prevent the government from making one law three. But it cannot then be argued that it is done because of the opacity of the text which has been in the past 7 years, 6 years since the law was passed and has contributed greatly to the state of spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50853	Ingrid Antičević Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50854	Oh, boy. Well, you're not such a new representative that you don't know that there are similar topics, so especially when it comes to first reading, there's often a united discussion on committees. That's something the Rules of Procedure points you to, and you're turning the thesis upside down, so you say because there's been a united debate, it's just saying that one law has to be passed. If a law had been passed, there would not have been a speech about a united debate, it would already be a matter of logic. But let's let it go, it's already small and it doesn't matter. It is important that the gentleman who you were the predecessor of the minister, so all that has happened for years and not only has your predecessors, and your predecessors have everything they didn't or didn't know or didn't want, and most often it was all that, that you have at least so much courage that this brave woman, the lady minister, led by this team who is here today in the afternoon here together with us to congratulate her on this hard and extensive work. This isn't, they've faced a problem from a fellow who hasn't been from yesterday, which isn't from this government, the government that dates from socialism, which maybe since '45. Dates with an unsettled space, with manipulations in space, political management of space where people are... construction zones built the house before '68. All of a sudden, these units of local self-government, and you know this well how they managed that because they had to fight in that regulation in 30% of the construction they found themselves and it was then drawn as a leopard's skin they found themselves outside of building land, people who have been living in their home for 40, 50 years and you call it responsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government is responsible for giving them every opportunity to manage responsible units of local self-government. So this package of laws, especially this first one, because we also know in the world the biggest corruption is exactly space management. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the state to behave like this and this is a strong anti-corruption law, no matter what you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50855	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50856	If you esteemed colleagues could listen to someone else, you'd be much more convincing in your argument. This is how often you're in conflict with logic. So, I said that if the Minister and the Government wanted to divide one law into three laws because he was as unsightly as he is then it was in a certain way and logically, no matter how strange it was for you to discuss each of these three laws individually, the conclusions reached, and the debate. Because it was also evident from the introduction of the minister that she was also partly entering from one law into another, which is one building that has been connected to each other for many years and, in itself, in itself, clearly. As for the situation that we are talking about, I think that Ms. Minister has inherited both the Ministry and the area in an extremely well-coordinated manner in relation to the other resolutions, and that in that part of today, the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to the spatial planning of European countries, when it comes to spatial planning and environmental protection, because we all like to boast that our space is arranged, that our space is protected, that the Croatian part of the Mediterranean is one of the most organized and most preserved oasis in Europe and the Mediterranean. Well, that didn't fall off Mars. This is partly the result of government policy, especially the previous government-respected counterparts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50857	Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50858	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You were talking about decentralisation when it comes to spatial planning under current law in relation to centralization under this new proposal. It's nothing new. We who work at the local self-government are witnesses that practically any amendments to the law that are passed are just being made by this recipe. So decentralisation of power when it comes to local self-government and centralization of funds. You were also talking about abolishing the authority of local self-government units that is also continuing on this first thesis then. In Article 135, it seems to me that the Constitution speaks of local self-government and its competences, and paragraph 3 says the affairs of the local and regional districts are governed by law. When these jobs are awarded, priority will be given to those bodies closest to the citizens. I ask you what kind of body in this country is closest to the citizens if it's not local self-government?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50859	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50860	So I said this in my introduction that with a series of provisions of this law largely encumbered are the powers of local self-government units. I am aware of the fact that many major, important projects in the Republic of Croatia have often been domestically obstructed. There were such obstructions. But the Constitution has established the powers of the local self-government units, and as much as it is a pebble in our shoe, we must not wipe out such powers. Because there were also conflicting cases that often there were initiatives of projects at local level that suffered and waited for implementation, realization and construction due to the state level because sometimes the government, the ministries, public enterprises had not realised their projects in particular. So you've been mayor for many years, you know how many problems he created for you, how often Croatian roads do it, how many times does the Croatian woods who tried to do something in life in some space and only bring spatial plans we could wait for the consent of public companies and never reach them. Therefore, if there were errors on both sides, but because such errors are generally made by new laws, local self - administration is punished. And you're right when you say there's sometimes even a declarative desire to leave certain powers to local self-government, but lately, I have to say it here in the Parliament and you're a parliamentary representative and we're following it more and more is the desire for centralization and there is a growing desire to reduce the powers of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50861	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50862	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I'd like to rephrase, my colleague, right in my presentation, he's touched the local self-government, and in fact, it's said that you don't have to pay the communal contribution right away, but it's paid afterwards. I would replicate and ask the Minister for local self-government units to have major problems because if a municipal contribution is not to be paid immediately but paid after obtaining a building permit then it's a big problem for us all together because whoever gets a building permit, you know, he thinks he doesn't even have to pay for this anymore. Before it was necessary to pay right away, it was excellent for local self-government units, and right now if you don't have to pay it, it's going to be a big problem, and then we all in local self-government units have to say I'm not going to run a court procedure, but in fact you have to take care of how and how to collect simply that contribution. And the best thing to do is to charge him immediately and that's basically the most transparent and the best. Because if this guy doesn't have the option or he won't pay for the communal contribution and we have to work hard with him, then that building of his also doesn't have anything because he doesn't have the means to build any object. So please, if that's the case, which is, it certainly changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50863	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50864	Thank you, Madam Vice President. What you just said at the HDZ Club, we also talked about it in this assembly when the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings was amended. Given that a huge number of legalisation applications have been submitted in Croatia, it would be good to have one analysis or data as to how much of the solutions issued regarding the retention of buildings in the area as many solutions on the legalisation of buildings as the units of local self-government through the implementation of the provisions of that law have charged or secured if they have not charged what is also provided for in the law for the collection of the municipal contribution. I am afraid that it is the units of local self-government whose municipal contribution is the basis and basic income for the construction land for the construction of infrastructure facilities in its space, etc., etc. I'm afraid with this kind of approach, in one law and another, they'll have to make quite an effort to get into the position of billing on what had already been provided by the previous law. I am afraid that many units of local self-government will have to go into proceedings and judicial proceedings against or through which other procedures apply to investors because of the failure to pay public contribution. Because when you get a permit without paying the municipal contribution, it's executed and you're prevented from opening the works before you pay the municipal contribution, I don't know how it's going to work, and how the local self-government units are really going to be satisfied with such a charged communal contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50865	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50866	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Bacic, I highly appreciate you both as a parliamentary representative and as a former minister, and you have done a lot of good on the matter of your ministry, and I understand that you are a little more subjective to the passing of these laws. What I'd say is that you're wrong when you say it can be built before paying for a communal contribution. It is left to local self-government units to decide whether in wars, one war, five wars, ten wars, 50 wars, but it is mandatory to provide confirmation before the start of construction that a municipal contribution has been paid, in which way units of local self-government decide. Furthermore, you were talking about spatial plans which is true that we have 567 spatial plans and units of local self-government in so many counties and the City of Zagreb. These are all spatial plans operational and they're all operational. And the adjustment goes on at the expense of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, does not go on the burden of units of local self-government. So I understand what you're saying, but it's not accurate. Now there are representatives of the ministry to say who's right about you and your claim that you can build without payment or my claim that you have to pay, and units of local self-government to get out to your citizens, allow their entrepreneurs about the amount of investment in that municipal contribution to so many wars, I think that's true. But I think we should support a law like this that goes at speed and quality. And on the issue of the conflict between state regional and local self-government when I'm still in the debate, I'll touch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50867	Thank you very much. But the replicas are not on the law we're discussing. The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50868	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Mandic's has little to do with the communal contribution. You have previously been unable to use a permit without a paid municipal contribution or without an agreement with the local self-government unit on how to pay, and here now that you have already obtained permission by its enforcement you cannot begin to build if you do not pay the communal contribution. The question of when the construction will begin and another thing about how local self-government units will collect that income. But I wanted to say something else. I wanted to say that I have a different attitude from the Minister doesn't mean I don't appreciate Mrs. Secretary. I don't know where you and Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović came from. I appreciate what she's doing and I think she's doing everything that she can to do in her ministry and in the big system she manages to do everything she thinks is best. But here we differ in principle, I have not entered into the details that I welcome in this law, there are a number of details that I welcome. However, one is certain provisions that will improve the existence of building permits, one is provisions that will probably improve the adoption of spatial plans and investment. And I believe that certain investments with this approach when it is removed, removed from the citizens and from the reach of the public and units of local and regional self-government will be dealt with more quickly because I also know how we have dealt with certain projects where there was obstruction. But in principle, we differ from what I think is a detached local self-government compared to what it has so far, that space is less protected than it has ever been and these are, in my opinion, the two most important elements that don't go in my opinion are not good for a spatial arrangement in the Republic of Croatia or for a system that has been established that respects local self-government. These are the two important differences between what I am thinking and what this law has passed in the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50869	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50870	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić if anything was good, if it was good, then it was your opening speech on behalf of the club on this law. No matter what the remarks on this side. We know that this government of one ministry could have made three, even one law, obviously the same three, but we always have an explanation that it would be faster, better quality, etc. We see how it goes, but it doesn't matter. I'm replicating the part where you led the government to give authority. He's centralizing his authority to bring... to an isolated building area the way she obviously wanted it to be. You're going to explain to me what this is all about, I haven't been able to figure it out because of all the laws we're discussing today, I don't know how many of them we've discussed today, I haven't even been able to look at all this. That's what we've had before. It says Ingrid that this is a solution to the socialist system. And that to come before some party commissioner somewhere in the field and you'd say there'd be a hotel settlement. Then it would have been a hotel settlement after a few years and there'd be a mess in the space. We know how property relations look to us. Today may not be the case, okay? It won't be the same, but it'll be the same. Don't laugh. If an investor comes and says I've recorded something, and they don't listen to me there, the government will make an UP for him. Why do they care about the citizens? Who will the citizens come to? Will he come before the government? No, they'll come to the mayor, Chief. These are the inherited parts of the past, so that spirit never leaves. Then comes this provision that the minister gives consent to a director of the Office for Physical Planning. So what's that for? So if the county council of the parish doesn't have the right to put a man in charge of someone but has to drink to the minister we want to go to theater law?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50871	Thank you very much. The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50872	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree very much with what you said, but what I think was in the place that Mr. Šuker said in his introduction is that the Ministry of Spatial Planning for the adoption of this law has made a huge effort and that few laws that we have discussed lately in the Croatian Parliament that have earned in the first row to discuss at one normal time, and in the evening at 18.00 and a little more parliamentary representatives, there are no more than twenty parliamentary representatives. In this part, it seems to me that the debate on such an important law governing the most valuable natural resource in Croatia deserved a better time and way to conduct the debate itself. As for what you said about the part relating to state urban planning arrangements, I agree absolutely, and I will repeat it again, and that is that I can understand that the government wants in this way certain spaces that can contribute to the accelerated development of the Republic of Croatia and bring faster realization through its own spatial plans. But we must be aware that it goes to the heart of the former rights acquired by me, were once long and stretched out and complicated the situation. So you're all witnessing what happened, for example, in Dubrovnik space when urban planning was being carried out and what was happening in Istria with... etc., etc., where simply some projects or could not have been implemented for a long time due to the lack of urban planning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will now obviously go according to a shortened procedure. I can do it, I can assume it. It'll go in a short procedure. The more that neither now nor with this law, and that may later be Mrs. Secretary... say how and how urban planning procedures will be carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which they will be adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There will be a similar situation for the county spatial plan So both state and county urban planning. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50873	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50874	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Minister. A colleague of Bačić, if it is one area, can be said that in the past decades it has caused trauma both for the citizens of such an economy, then it must be this area. Also to ignore the fact that by 6, 7 years ago, 70% of local self-government units had no spatial plans, simple ignorance, disrespect of the profession, because many of these people are not members of any political party. And to be honest with you, I don't care if someone who is currently in power is going to split one law into 10 or 5, which I am perfectly not interested in is whether these traumas are gone. And that's how best it shows the number of legalized applications submitted. And I think that's where every story stops and that's why it's embarrassing that there are as many MPs on this side as there is, it's embarrassing to run from the public, it's embarrassing that this law is not discussed with the mayor and the chief. For a simple reason, anyone who was mayor knows well and if he does his job fairly, none better than the city council, the mayor and the mayor can manage that space. I myself, while I was mayor, had one big space around Velika Gorica that someone wanted to impose on me because of someone's interest on me to be a pebble with the one big one we have, it would just be an ecological disaster. And if I hadn't been the authority of that parliamentary representative and I'd have fought it all to move out, unfortunately it would have just been a pebble, today the Austrians would have been there to pull the gravel out and fural it in Austria because they can't take it out at home. And that's why local self-government units are simply not allowed to be declared. They must be given space, but I also say, it's my personal opinion. A colleague of Bacic believes that the Minister should respect this and install some kind of mechanism into the law that if the local self-government unit of a project's brakes should simply be eliminated. So, you don't need to act in one direction, but disabling units of local self-government after a lot of money has been invested, a lot of effort for all units of local self-government to have a spatial plan, I think it's wrong. I sincerely hope that my colleagues in the ministry will discuss this and that they will change their position there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50875	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50876	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow Shuker, here in the law or in the proposal for a law on spatial planning, writes that the Croatian county community, the association of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, the association of cities in the Republic of Croatia, were invited to the round tables. I would be interested in Madam Ministers whether associations of cities, municipalities and counties were evident about this law and how they were manifested. I don't know what the position of the Committee, the Assembly Committee on Regional Self-Government, the Regional and Local Self-Government on this matter, or at least what the debate was on that committee itself, but it seems to me that what my colleague Schucker said about this kind of approach will certainly not be satisfied with the head of the unit of local self-government because he will now remain responsible for the situation in the area of local self-government and the local self-government units and the area they manage and that this proposal of the law has now taken over the mayor and the county level, the government has taken over. That must all the mayors and commissioners be aware that from now on, if this law is passed like this, they will not be the ones who will go fully along with their representative bodies, therefore, with the councils they will not be responsible and do not have the powers they have so far. That's what I wanted to point out, that's what you said when you were talking about this collaboration between the ministry and the mayor or the mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50877	We continue the debate, on behalf of the Club of Croatian Representatives Ivica Mandić and Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50878	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would agree with my colleague Shucker if it were not appropriate for one such important law to be discussed again in a time that is not suitable for the importance and space in the Republic of Croatia and the importance of this law in relation to the preservation of that one of the most significant resources. What I would say in the beginning is that with this Law on Spatial Planning, it primarily goes with the intention of protecting and preserving space in the Republic of Croatia from various devastions both urban cores, coastal areas, and nature parks and other places. The territory of the Republic of Croatia is particularly valuable but wasteful and wasteful and must be preserved and protected as such. We at the Croatian National Party Club are convinced that this proposed law that first reads has all the attributes of what I was talking about. For these reasons, the Club of the Croatian People's Party will support this proposal of this Law with some of our views on certain items in the proposed law. I'm not going to explain all the items we agree with, but in those that we think there's room for it to be better arranged, I'm going to point that out. What I would say is that this is the brave move of the Ministry, the Minister and her associates, that this is essentially the final phase of the state of affairs in space because if we look at that law that we had on the legalisation of wrongly designed buildings in the Republic of Croatia that was submitted to the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction somewhere over 820 thousand demands. This best explains the state we are in, and this situation says that the space in the Republic of Croatia is best compared to all other members of the European Union. That says we've had a lot of problems, a lot of disrespect, a lack of law enforcement and a lot of law enforcement, which may be the most important. What the colleagues mentioned, that a large number of spatial plans of the units of local self-government were adopted and that is true and all spatial plans have value and their importance and no one is challenging now or in the future with this new law that someone will enter the space of units of local self-government and that someone will organize a space where kindergarten schools, churches, where there will be other content and sports content. But I'm sorry, if we want a serious functional system, a serious state, that time we have the same possibility that the state has to set certain priorities. It is precisely this law that defines what can be organised from the state level and what can be done, because if we just come to my county from which I come, the Osijek-Baranja County where we have 50 and several units of local self-government, imagine that they all agree. If a professional body has said that the main water line should go that way and that route, then it should, then let us not allow such matters to be decided by the commissioners because first of all, all these proposals that will come from the Ministry will be based on expertise and justification. It's a product pipeline, gas pipelines, pipelines, roads, certain directions of energy transmissions. I think these are all important things and they should be. Normally, local self-government units will have all that real information about it. Here when we were talking about the existing state and state in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the following document is to be adopted, and this is the Law on Spatial Planning plans to be adopted in 2014 by the Strategy of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia. I think this document is great, that this document will bring the Croatian Parliament and that it is one of those break-in moments when we will have quality planning and planning or strategy that will happen to us in space. What's most important is that the state level, the regional level and the various units of local self-government have each part-time work and each level will have the information one, the other, the third because no one will say it will go like that and so, it must be, it will have information. But here we want a clear acceleration of the process, a clean acceleration of the procedure. What is also important in the functioning of this bill and in the adoption of this law is the information system of spatial order. First of all, it will have the opportunity and effective insight into the system and we will have information in every place where it overlaps with state, regional and... local self-government units. It will improve that we will have the right control of this system and the right control of the space, and that path will no longer be the responsibility of someone else to blame. What is also good in the proposal of this law, that the minister and her ministry and assistants, that ten round tables were carried out on this subject at the level of the Republic of Croatia and all interested and county and local self-government units, meant the leaders who were dealing with the problem had the opportunity to make their remarks to this issue. And that's why I'm not surprised that this law in this first reading has this quality of suggestion. What this law also touches, in Article 18, which mentions the advice of spatial planning. By respecting both the quality of these people and that advisory body, we at the HNS Club feel that this advice is primarily of a advisory character since it is in Article 20. The Office for Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia is a professional institution that has professional trained persons and has almost the same partial work and follow-up as this advice. We believe in first reading, we propose to the Ministry to give us an explanation and to take a good look at this advisoryly... because we now have the Office for Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia, we have institutions in the counties, we have one large number of professionals. As far as Article 21 is concerned, it accurately regulates the part-time work, the activities of the institute. What is most important is that the Ministry is essentially establishing an office and controlling and that the complete information system of spatial planning will be connected to this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50879	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, Vice President of the Parliament. During previous presentations, some of the things to comment on were said, of course not repeating what the esteemed colleague Mandic said, so it was actually one of the fundamental values of this new law, which is to avoid conflicts between three levels of planning and decision-making in the modern concept of spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia. I think it would be a good idea if we really spoke honestly in this House, given that most of us sitting here today were or are the leaders of a local or regional self-government unit, and some as we know were ministers in this sector. The greatest value is that this law has divided the powers and, within the framework of power, given absolute autonomy to both local self-government units and regional administrations, and left the possibility to the Croatian government, i.e. to create assumptions for the realization of projects that are of national importance. Someone mentioned this law in the context of strengthening centralisation, so he referred to it as, say, previous practices that certain hotel settlements are working on a decision that is not discussed. Well, that's one good thing, one good thing in one system that I personally don't like behind us, which is behind us because I'm going to ask the question to answer it honestly. If they had ruled the conditions that we have today if we had ACI as a system of marinas that is the pearl of Croatian tourism, if we had hotel settlements that were made the type of Sibenik Solaris or, for example, the leading Riviera Hotel. If we created spatial-plan assumptions today and fulfilled all the laws, the recent laws of the envisaged conditions to implement such projects. The answer to the question is very precise. How many hotel resorts have we made in modern Croatia? Not one, not one. How many new marinas have we made in 20 years, considering that ACI has been built as a system in just a few years. The counterpart Bacic also said that the quality of space management so far has been at such a level that the eastern coast of the Adriatic is one of the best preserved areas in the Mediterranean area, but thanks to one other fact, counterpart Bačić. 6830 kilometers of coastal line, which is also such a small population, failed to devastate such as Kaštel, the island of Vira and too long was a coastal line to completely destroy it with illegally built waterfronts, mulets, ports that eliminated every variant of building quality urban beaches in most coastal areas. We had no order in the room. We had chaos in space. It is therefore good to clearly define powers and clearly define responsibilities. Because if we don't, then we're going to have some projects waiting for tens of years until all political and other conflicting interests between the units of local, regional and national are agreed on by the current conditions. And let's not lie, it exists. In the spatial projections of the Sibenik County, wind power plants had a terrible primate which is not at all illogical since the Sibenik area is second in quality, i.e. by the characteristics for the exploitation of wind power plants. But, of course, when we came to power four years ago, when the other political option came, then some other thinking came, and suddenly the wind parks in the Sibenik area began to wipe out and the elimination of them began. And that's true. Suddenly, a year ago, the DPU was brought in. The bays of Vrnaža, which predicted a combination of port sports and port nautical tourism, has suddenly ceased to be opportunized because now sees the devil a second set has come to the head of the city and now it would be convenient for it to become an open port for public transport, because, of course, according to the Law on Maritime Goodness which you also know very well then comes into the hands of the county, said, done. And let's not lie. Spread out the powers and clearly share the responsibilities. Condicio makes qua non any intensive economic enterprise in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. All other intensities that clearly apostrophe the need to responsibly and responsibly manage the territory of the Croatian People's Party club. It's a good thing this went to first reading and, of course, it went to first reading, because this is too much of a law. We, as a club, will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50880	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the replicas, to a part of the exhibition that my colleague Mandic had. Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50881	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Mandic, you said in your presentation that more than 800,000 claims were submitted for legalisation of the facilities. My question is whether the existing administration and you and the minister today can meet these demands and solve these problems and whether it will actually happen to us and I'm expressing my skepticism that this is exactly why we would not actually come or have problems with illegal construction in a few years' time. And I expected from you, and also from my colleague Baranovic that you will talk about a part of this law that was actually in itself, which is discriminatory in one part, that is article 135 of this law – the party in the process of issuing a local authorisation, and in fact it is talking about those neighbors in the process of issuing a permit that is actually an eternal brake and the reason for asking for money for the consent of bad neighbourly relations or similar reasons. And the neighbors are actually using all the possibilities, and that's clear to you in the practice so far, to block the construction or to refuse to accept the call for insight, to complain about the license, and that's what's really holding that part back. However, paragraph 2 of the same law states that the state has made it possible for itself to obtain permits without the participation of the neighbouring citizens and thus has brought everyone else into an unequal position. Here, I've spoken to the minister through you, but I think you understand me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50882	We're replicating every way, so we can do this one. Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50883	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Babic, I told you exactly that about 820 thousand legalization applications have been filed. According to the information I'm having, it's about 10 percent of cases that have been handed over more out of ignorance and from fears that they shouldn't, which aren't founded, have built something. There are also another 10% that will not need legalisation, which will be resolved in the process. Somewhere around 10 to 15% very likely they won't be able to legalize objects. Why? Because they are built either on a protected area or on some routes that will not be legalized. And so it stays somewhere around 550,000. I'm sure this first step was done fantastically by the ministry, and it's set up a very big and good pace to skip. At this point, I have no doubt that the team with Minister Tarritash will not do that part of the job. Normally, all those offices that are in the counties are required to support them safely and to successfully finish that part of the work. As far as this part of the inequality you're talking about is in Article 3 where the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning gives itself a kind of privilege, but I think it's totally fine because as far as I know, here at my colleague Bubal in Osijek, one owner has been holding down one 4.5 years... For five years, the owner of his land has been holding down a complete investment. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50884	Thank you. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50885	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, here's an esteemed colleague, first of all, I would like to stress once again what we wanted to define, that part of this proposal of the Law on Spatial Planning, which is that this spatial plan must be adopted faster, simpler, cheaper, with the emphasis that it must be with adequate priorities, powers and responsibilities. Unfortunately, I have to say from my part of the example that I would very much like to be now because I am in the process of making other changes to my spatial plan that I can do it according to this law because what we've been doing under the old law for a year and it's still not sure how I'm going to bring him in. And this concerns me as the mayoral authority within the ILS so that I would really like to have these state-level governmental and local responsibilities put into a situation like this law. Why? Because indeed the state must have a part of the possibility to set its priorities in its national spatial plan. And then later we at the local level don't need to discuss it anymore. But of course, in this law it is also defined that when a state and county spatial plan is adopted, we participate in its adoption. So it's not like there's something going on without us, but then when it's brought to the state and county level, we don't need to discuss at the local level where the state roads go, where the pipelines go, where protected areas go, etc. It's no longer our intelligence, and it doesn't take time. Then it'll be faster and simpler first. On the other hand, what I'd like to say is that it'll be cheaper if we bring it in much faster, what you said from your example, we're going to change because certain businessmen want to invest in our area in a year, lucky they haven't given up yet, that they'll be able to bring it. And another thing that will be faster and cheaper on the basis of the property institution of the construction land where the land is essentially the owner of the building land is obliged before obtaining a local permit to hand over to the unit of local self-government property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50886	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50887	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Marianne, I agree with you. With the establishment of a spatial system where all three levels will be established, state, county, units of local self-government normally that the process of adopting and harmonising spatial plans will be much easier. Here on the one hand we were talking about when units of local self-government are blocking the state, and there are the same cases that units of local self-government in the adoption of their spatial plans should get some consent from Croatian forests, Croatian waters, HEP etc., etc. and that these procedures lasted a few months. So with a system like this, we're going to eliminate that part, and it's going to be exactly what and how it has to be done. I believe that the tendency of this law is to be faster, simpler, more quality, and automatically, the units of local self-government with their offer will be more competitive towards the economy and that investment will be facilitated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50888	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50889	Thank you very much. Here's what I want to replicate to my colleague Mandic. In his presentation, he said that Osijek-Baranja County has 50 units of local administration. There are no more than 42, 7 cities and 35 municipalities, but what is much more important is that just when discussions were held, and among them, Osijek-Baranja County were not conducted even the records with these discussions but it is visible from a legal solution that is before us that almost none of these proposals were accepted. Therefore, the best profession of people who work daily in the field and solve judicial fates, human problems feel that the problem from spatial planning to local, building permits is the very supervision of construction but also architectural success. Therefore, by looking at all three legal solutions but first of all, this one certainly needs to understand what the profession says on the ground and what it feels on the ground is a problem, and here is especially in Osijek-Baranja County, which is one of the larger counties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50890	The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50891	Thank you very much. My colleague Bubalo, I don't see any reason if these proposals came from the profession and if they're justified because here the people who are here are the same persons from the profession and who will surely be able to valorize all the suggestions. I don't believe the proposals weren't accepted, they're embedded maybe in a different way. And you know how all the professionals are, they only hold up their attitude, and there are no other attitudes. I think it's a small and own ego, but I expect that this quality issue will be answered by the minister and her associates than I do because I don't see any reason why the quality proposals that come from local self-government units are not respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50892	Branka Juričev-Martin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50893	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honors Minister. Well, you told your colleague Mandic that this is an extremely brave proposal of this law to our Parliament. I would agree with you especially in a segment relating to the protection of the coastal area of the sea. The minister herself said that... she had been scheduled since 1967 with a break from 1994 to 2004 and we now have a special chapter that deals with the area for protection with restrictions on land and island belts ranging from a thousand metres from the coastal line. And in fact, this law provides for the establishment of location permits for objects already according to the spatial plan. We know that the spatial plan is not as detailed as the urban and detailed plan, and I believe this will be very dangerous. In due course there will be emergency facilities in this area, and you know the case I'm in Vodice and now the investor who's interested in it, means 50, 60 and more meters just up in this area. At the same time, you shall provide for Article 50 for the implementation of the spatial plan of the local level for the implementation of a public architectural tender for the selection of an idea solution for buildings and other procedures in the area of public and social intention. So when the unit of local self-government is an investor then you predict an architectural tender to choose the best idea solution unlike these objects. I agree that now that we need to encourage investors when we need to keep an eye on and try to create as many new jobs as possible, it's certainly important for this generation but it's a big question of what we're going to leave for those future generations, whether we're going to permanently disrupt the space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50894	The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50895	Dear Vice President, I could have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure if my colleague Branka was replicating me, and she's asking the minister a question. I mean, it doesn't match. No, no, I said it's brave behind it because this part of this law provides for a certain part of quality new proposals and new regulations, which we think is good. As for this part that is related to the protection of the coastal belt, counterpart Bacic said that this bill is even on a higher scale than environmental protection, I think it can't be below because environmental protection comes first because it first edits that space. And I don't think there's any concern here about environmental protection. If we haven't devastated it by now, I'm convinced that by proposing and passing this law, space will remain more quality and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50896	We will now move on to the replicas of the exhibition of colleagues Baranovic. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50897	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Baranovic, in his opening explanation, to further strengthen the position of this law, in which the role of the local self-government unit is neglected, said... you have built up... you have listed Vodice, Vodice Riviera, Solaris etc. If you stick to that way and model, I could give you a series of such devastations and failures just because of that kind of policy. For example, you yourself said Kaštelan Bay or Mala Venice, what a small Venice was before the procedure at the northern port of Kaštelan Bay, what Vranjic looked like and what a slow today it looks like exactly because some things had changed there. So what I'm saying is democracy is a procedure, a procedure in which we must respect what we have adopted by deciding to approach the democratic, market-based governance system in Croatia. We, too, and the democracy and the constitution that we have brought that defends these principles, and we must respect the units of local self-government. We don't respect them with this bill of law. Namely, the Government and the Central Authority have laws, has a strategy of spatial regulation, the Government adopts a certain regulation, the Ministry adopts regulations and thus defines the legislative framework as being dealt with in spatial order. But now this law is getting us into such a system because we say we're going to determine from the central government where something is going to be and it's going to be there no matter how and how we think about the units of local self-government. That's who I am, what I keep repeating and what I disagree with. So if we have established a system in which we will respect such a local level, then we cannot pass laws that show that we do not respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50898	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50899	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, I disagree with you of course because as former head of local self-government I know very well how to play... and how to play not only with us but everywhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And from that they are not vaccinated either, do not realize that in some way I only object to HDZ, but all political options are simply such in nature, the confrontation between local and regional levels and also national damage to Croatian society and the economy, has stopped many processes. We are all aware of the truth that, according to the present concept, often, very often one political option is opposed to another at different levels, putting their feet in the door and especially from the top to the bottom. We are aware of these facts, in this Law, however, quite the opposite is very clearly defined. There's clearly different ingenuity here, and it's autonomy. So, in what the intelligence unit of local self-government no longer can put a foot in the door. Processes are not stopped, entrepreneurship initiatives are not stopped, spatial plans are not adopted, they are coordinated after 10, 15 years. Well, the Sibenik GUP is written more than Dostoevsky wrote War and Peace. That's all. Only because of that. The same thing is with the state-level ratio to, the same thing is with the state-level attitude to regional level, we were constantly witnesses to driving, sticking to legs, opposing, stopping and blocking. Blocking has become a syntagma in the spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia. Now this model makes it clear who is doing what in his backyard, who is responsible for what and who has the authority to do what. And that's better anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50900	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50901	Comrade Baranovic, you are not abandoned by the spirit of socialism or by a colleague there, Ingrid. Look, you said it was a good thing that that system that, on the principle of the party commissioner, would solve a hotel settlement or a marina, no, that was so, what we were going to run from, that was faster with tails. And the tails feel this day. Today. Why did we have to pass the Law on Tourist Land? Why do tourism firms still have the part in the portfolio that will have to damage the owners, private land owners? Why? Because it would be quick but with a lot of drawbacks. And now, like again, we're getting it back. That the government is bringing me UPU where I say I have a field. So what now? How come she's right? If I have the right to my property, do I have the right to say what I want there, or will you tell us what you want with the Zagreb directive. So instead of the government thinking about getting rid of all the powers they don't need because there's all the work they want, they're still taking on more. So the minister in the 750 thousand buildings that need to be legalized needs the appointment of a director of the county office for spatial planning. What's that? Well... It worked for the Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do we have all the principals? We do. What's wrong with them? Are they bad? So let the mayor think about it. If we're not good with mayors, then let's stop the county but don't explain it this way. We don't need that. So what do people do in the ministry? Well at the Ministry, I don't know regional development is thinking who got 20 cc's of water on... So is that normal? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that normal for you? And it's subsidized... You know what I'm talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what do utility companies do to us, and so does this. So what would the government tell us about the environment in my community? Because one of the investors put their paws in there, and he wants to go there, so let's... down people, so let them talk, is he chosen? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They did. It's completely wrong, sir... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50902	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50903	I feel very sorry for my colleague Boric for you for knowing which way you're actually twisting the thesis. Here you have said that where does the right of the state to prescribe tomorrow with a spatial plan that some of the contents will be worked at a specific location and to discuss in your possession. Even so far, the spatial plans when they were working were not about whose property it was, but it was about assessing the profession of what to do. Equally, property could not dispute the content of the spatial plan and was brought into the system that everyone could stop anyone and therefore we had... a story in the context of many spatial plans in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here you absolutely missed the whole fussball, the whole fssball because it has nothing to do with the ownership category. The spatial plans do not challenge anyone's property, they do not touch those constitutional categories as well as property can, at least should not, at least should not affect the content of spatial plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50904	Tomislav Klaric. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50905	The Honorable Chairman, the Minister, colleagues and colleagues who are still here. Here's Mr. Baranovic said how many solaris he built on how many marinas, how many resorts. I'm going to ask the question of how many cokers, how many Ovens, how many black pits and how much this country cost, and how much this people's recovery was just my coke that destroyed the city was 350 million kuna. How could he make a marina, a resort or a solaris for that money? And the world didn't start with us or start with Yugoslavia long ago and there was always something and somewhere, and I guess there was some spatial planning in the time when they were being built, and this country, no matter who was in power in the last 20 years and during the war, built hundreds of miles and highways and tunnels and everything that life means, or optical cables, telecommunications, we'll end up digitizing spatial plans, and that way we'll pass. What pains me more than anything you've said is agreeing with all of you who have so far said that yesterday since early morning, we've only discussed one law and two points. Here we talk about the future of Croatia, about its development, about everything that is going to happen in its space, we put it at a time when our public who is very interested in this does not listen and see and join such important laws into one law, in a time period that is completely unadjusted, in an empty assembly, and that is probably more about us, about the one that organizes all this work and about the law itself. This is a document that must be discussed, which must be respected, which we must all bring together because this document both of which means economic development and the future of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50906	Thank you. Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50907	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, I can begin by agreeing with you that it is a shame that according to the agenda it turned out to be such an important law, even in the first reading of this term, however the term and time does not release any agent who has responsibility for the subject and his job to attend the session. In this session, on several occasions after midnight, as the last exhibitor, I was able to finish up good night and see you in the morning, respected colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the lack of a representative on such an important topic is a matter of their personal responsibility to approach. What you said, I did this example or find that many valuable things, and even valuable systems, are still valuable and attractive for Croatian tourism and economy today, precisely because they could in some way have been speedily strategically planned and executed. I pulled this out of the context of one for me bad episode because I didn't come to this Assembly from the order of former party secretaries or a racer with a staff which is the case with some of your colleagues. And as for the factories, your cokers, my TEF, long-termolegure factories, they are a relic of one time where it was the base of the economy, not only in Croatia, but throughout Europe. The time of industrial production in Europe is the time when Europe did not run away from black metallurgy, the time when other circumstances ruled and tourism was not so primarily highlighted in the structure of the economy. This is just one example for the end, so TEF was made in Sibenik in the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and was only upgraded. Koksara did her job in Bakr, people who worked in it know that it wasn't a simple job, but some generations lived on that job at some point, and they made assumptions that other things could be done with that coke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50908	Thank you very much. And Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50909	I thank the president. Dear Representative Baranovic, I am impressed that you are defending this trio of powers within the adoption of spatial plans and that you assure us, that this centralization is something that is necessary to address the situation in this part. I really don't know what the interest of people living in local self-government units is if it's not their interest, which is the interest of the state and the county if it's not the interest of those people who live and work there and what they are, what are the things that are supposed to happen from Zagreb, from some county center, and that people are not aware of in their units of local self-government. Secondly, you're saying this today and two years ago, I'm going to read to you what you wrote in Plan 21 as one of the decentralisation measures, so you said regional and local self-government will have more power in spatial planning and management and space management. We are now coming to the conclusion that from Zagreb, as our distinguished colleague Boris said, someone will draw again some parts that some investors will see, that is, decide to build something there. I don't think that's right, but it's not right that the local self-government unit, it's not separate islands that are going to be mapped out, it's got to be planned, it's got to be connected, it's got to be made roads, it's got to build certain access roads that need to be drawn into spatial plans. So no one can make an ad hoc some kind of target country without it in coordination with the community and units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50910	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50911	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will start from the fact that we in this House have one thing that extends almost every debate that touches the economy, the current economic and social situation, employment in the Republic of Croatia. It is an interest to launch investments because if not, it was your club that was the most burning in the debates in which you respect this government that we have a GDP drop, that there is no investment launch, and all the time you've been pretending to be English people and you know the truth, that space-plan regulation, or its slow adoption, harmonisation, the biggest problem in starting investments, in realising those projects that can significantly affect GDP. There's no end to that. We could list from Istria to Dubrovnik how much investment is waiting to create spatial and plan assumptions. Secondly, it is not true that this is how local self-government units are taken away. On the contrary, we have been in a situation so far that the local self-government unit could have imagined anything, what is in the interest of its citizens and what is the articulated political will of its citizens. But the county could have put a foot in her door. She can't anymore. The state could have put its foot in the door, it couldn't anymore. In the part where her authority is, she's an independent creator of everything that's written in spatial plans. Read the law well, then comment on it. And ultimately, I don't have a problem with Zagreb, I don't mind Zagreb being a city in which strategic things will be brought to me for the interests of this country. I had a problem 20 years ago when strategic things were brought to another capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50912	The word was requested by Minister Anka Dark Taritash. Here's to the pay phone. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50913	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. I'm very glad we have a debate on all three laws because we have the opportunity to talk about the Construction Act tomorrow. And indeed, all who have said that this is an extremely important problem is indeed an extremely important problem. You noticed that even when I was talking about reforms, I didn't talk about reform, I kept to myself the words of reform, but it was an extremely important problem, issues of importance for the development of our country. I'll refer to three things. The first thing is a state spatial plan. So here, the main issue of the debate was the reduction of the powers of local self-government units and the state spatial plan and government powers. And I'd just like to remind you, after all, of the current Law on Spatial Planning. The current Law on Spatial Planning has a strategy for spatial development, which brings the Croatian Parliament. This law has a strategy for spatial development by the Croatian Parliament. The current law has a programme of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which is in '99. A year brought by who? The government of the Republic of Croatia, which this year has been amended and complemented by who? Government of the Republic of Croatia. And based on that programme, local permits are issued. The programme is in accordance with the provisions of the Law on spatial planning and construction of the basis for the issue of location permits. We called that program a real name, and the real name is the State's spatial plan. How will the State Space Plan be adopted? Based on a public debate that will be held in 556 municipalities and cities in accordance with the Archduke Convention. In all 556 municipalities and cities, 60 days will be in the public debate State spatial plan announced on all advertising boards with public exposure. Who's going to bring the State Space Plan? Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Who will establish building areas for isolated building areas of state purpose? Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Urban planning. What's the urban planning? Construction areas are and this is best compared to the house, construction lines are house, and urban planning is interior. Where's the house that's located and where's the house that's being built? The Assembly of the Republic of Croatia according to this law, which is before you in the first reading on the basis of a strategic environmental impact assessment, based on an assessment of the impact on nature, on the basis of a public debate of 60 days in all 556 units, municipalities and cities, the State spatial plan. The state spatial plan plans infrastructure of importance for the state and only isolated building areas of economic importance for the state, and the Government is planning on the basis of what the Parliament will bring and when it says that somewhere the construction area is set aside for the economic purposes of 56 ha within these 56 ha. In accordance with the public debate held for 30 days on the urban planning of the arrangements carried out on the territory of units of local self-government where this happens will be able to adopt an urban planning. I repeat, today the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings forward a Programme of Spatial Arrangements of the Republic of Croatia, which is a document in the hierarchy based on local permits. So, so much for the state spatial plan and the whole and so we just called it the State Space Plan and put it into the system as well as any spatial plan. The second topic is a subject I would like to refer to. I'm an architect. So in public you had the opportunity to read and see and on the parliamentary committees were representatives of the Association of Croatian Architects and the President of the Chamber and they had objections and absolutely I agreed with the hill of these remarks, but the remarks are in one other law. It's the Act on Architectural, Engineering Activities, which is in the works. The thesis is set, we've delivered the more difficult to all the chambers and given them the opportunity to make all the remarks and everything they need to be by the new year. The third topic is the topic of the State Institute for Spatial Development and Apolitics. Since 2007, it has been an obligation under the Law on Spatial Planning that the state should organise and create its State Institute for Spatial Development. Since 1.9, we have the State Office for Spatial Development, named v.d. The director, who is a colleague of the ministry, has been appointed to the Administrative Council and in six months we will hold a public tender for the Director. The funds were provided every time in the budget from 2007 to 2007 and the Republic of Croatia as well as all other EU countries has a state office which is registered at the Ministry's address and we are now reorganising to start working so that we can formally make a decision on making a strategy even though we have started working on an informal strategy. My fellow architects mention a politics, perhaps the esteemed MP Bacic does not remember but when he was minister, I was appointed in front of the ministry as head of the Apolitics-led body. Apolitics have been passed, and everything that stands in a politics is in this law and will be in all other laws. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50914	Thank you very much. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50915	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, when you talk about the State Plan for Spatial Development, we can agree here when you talk about the components of this spatial plan until a provision that you do not prescribe that we will plan, namely, separate construction areas outside the settlement for an economic and public purpose of state importance. You see, by that provision we are absolutely deviating from what we have done so far. The provision was in the jurisdiction and planning of regional and local self-government. Now the question can be asked when and when a debate is held in 555 units of local self-government how and how to introduce something into the State Space Plan against which the units of local self-government on which its representative body has not decided. Because it is precisely the definition of the space where local self-government units will be decided by the representative body of the local self-government unit and will now be determined by the government. That's one thing. And secondly, we will also know to what extent the centralised system of spatial regulation will be at the moment when the Government adopts a list of the regulations referred to in Article 51 when the Government sets up economic facilities and, less importantly, economic and public purposes. So the government will determine by regulation what on Hvar, for example, will be a space to be arranged by the government without a decision without the party body of the town of Starigrad. This is what will happen very, very precisely the moment the government adopts the regulation and then arranges for that space itself without the city of Starigrad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50916	Thank you. Answer to the replica of Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50917	I would just like to repeat once again what I was saying, today my building areas of the local self-government unit are planning and talking about building areas of isolated use, outside of the settlement, I can only plan when they are assigned by the county. Local self-government units also participate in a public debate as they will participate in the future in the state plan. So the state decides on the state level, the county for the county level. But today, municipalities and cities, according to this law, have something they have not had so far, have the authority to decide on economic zones, separate purposes of their importance. They don't have it today. Today, they're planning on doing it exclusively for the county. ... No, not today their county plans and they can only plan where the county has planned for them. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the future, please read the fine provision of Article 71 of this Law, to which area the regulations or regulations can plan municipalities and cities. I can plan a zero today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50918	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly doesn't have any, so she loses the right to debate on this wheel. Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50919	So here I was, in the opening line, saying a few words about the importance of these three laws and commending the model and way of bringing it through debate, through exposure, through first and second readings. But I'm going to what really bothers me the most, and I believe that all the leaders of the local self-government units and those who operate in any way in a certain space within the units of local self-government. In the very explanation of the law, I also said that the Committee literally states that the greatest and most harmful disadvantage that directly prevents the achievement of assumptions for improving economic and social development is an unacceptablely large impact of regional and local spatial plans in planning at the state level, especially on the implementation of procedures in the area of importance for the state, etc. We have all sworn to the previous government and this authority in the elections that it will implement in the field of decentralisation, that more powers will be given to units of local self-government, regional self-government on all issues. Now and according to this law, and throughout the whole series of previous ones, we see that the local self-government units are largely carried over by obligations and are increasingly deprived of their powers. In this debate, I was going to touch something that maybe I'm inappropriate, but all the time I'm calling a robbery, it's some kind of '91 government regulation. the year by which the units of local self-government of then catastrian municipalities and cities within the space of units of local self-government State attorneys, regardless of our spatial plans, transferred to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. It became owned by the Republic of Croatia, and it was written there, and the State's Attorney's Office conducted it neatly if they were not covered by the construction area according to the spatial plan until '91. A year. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about the efficiency and speed of the state on current spatial plans, and I'm saying it from experience that units of local self-government, these areas are building areas, in fact, are in the areas of precisely very successful, unfortunately, not too many economic industrial areas in the Republic of Croatia. why units of local self-government to get back that land must wait 2, 3 years to prove I don't know what kind of documentation plans, and if they accidentally put Croatian forests in the forest economic base then even pays for the removal from the forest-economic base. I'm talking about speed and efficiency. I am in favour of the state, government, ministry and this Parliament bringing strategic plans for those who are key and vital to the state, these are primarily corridors of transport infrastructure and other things. But I don't think the state of this House should decide what will be in the area of units of local self-government outside the scope that is intended for settlements and how you said isolated construction areas or economic areas. If this coincides with the interests or strategic plans and units of local self-government a good part of them brings some kind of overall development programme and it is much longer than these five years as you have said will be thrown out of the spatial plans of units of local self-government of an economic zone that are not put into service within five years. There's a whole series of reasons why some kind of zone and some space isn't put into operation, and that's what you're saying is that if that space isn't put into operation in another location, it puts some other space into function. In this area that I agree with 100% is planning in the PDO, but that's where I'd say and I'm going to give an amendment to this article 41. In Article 41, the last paragraph reads to resuscitate the abandoned... mineral raw materials fields and production areas primarily in the landscape recreation of hospitality tourism and sports recreation purposes. I would add here another article or item where I would prescribe the purpose of abandoned exploitation and production areas in the immediate vicinity of protected cultural monuments and within the scope of the PDO that it is within the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government if they are within the scope of the spatial plan of the settlement. I'm saying this for a particular reason for the area of Bakar where there is a plateau of coke where there are 150 thousand square meters of land and I don't want anyone else to determine other than the citizens of that city for the purpose of that space, and this is how it's possible. I'll also mention that part of the story, and that's what I said to the committee on spatial planning, state, county and cities and municipalities. The coastal-goran County has come up with a spatial plan. It has installed a traffic integrated study in the spatial plan. With the traffic of an integrated study this government, the ministry, the city of Rijeka, the county paid 8 million kuna. In this spatial integrated study, the premises of all cities and municipalities of Rijeka, Bakar, Vinodolska Municipality, Novi Vinodolski, Senj and further for road corridors, flat lines, do not speak Omisalj and the bridge another one on Krk. The Minister of Transport is now talking about some other railway very high-quality space of all these units of local self-government is the current spatial plan of the Primorje-Gorski County reserved, it cannot be planned differently except for those corridors of something that, according to current statements as far as I understand them, Minister Dončić will not be the corridor of the flat track, as a two-way line is built to Delnica from Delnica to the Maloba colossal tunnel in the Zlobin Randarska station remains a two-way track track. These are announcements from the Ministry of Transport in the spatial plan of the Primorje-Gorski County we have something else. And again, I'm going back to overcentralization and that part of the story that goes on with the winds. We have the Municipality of Fužina we have the Municipality of Vinodolska we have contracts with investors who have already invested four and a half years each with the purchase of land for measuring pillars. We have spatial plans that enable them, we have a study that has allowed them in time, so now it doesn't allow and we have some contracts of local self-government units and the opinions of previous representative bodies that this is possible. We now have a warrant from the ministry, the county to kick these wind parks out of its plan, and for other plans in other units of local self-government, it literally writes in the county spatial plan to go directly through the spatial plan of the county. What's this about? So we threw these out where they measured, here going directly to the application of the county's spatial plan and coming to me an investor with whom we signed a contract the same Germans these same Italians and saying people you're not normal with. Are we? And we're talking about spatial planning. And that's why I know how it all works that for years we've been fighting all these things I'm saying how important this law is both one and the other and the third when you've already divided it into three. And I congratulate you on your tenacity and your desire to fix it, but let's see all these things. And when we go back to centralization and that story, now in the Republic of Croatia we have 550 I don't know how many municipalities and cities, I guarantee you that at this point at state level we have 550 and so much investment, 555 investments. 555 construction sites. Nobody's building any more at this point than all local self-government units at state level. Water, sewers, storm drains, local infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, and I don't know what not. And don't write this way that local self-government is holding anything back. Local self-government is the foundation of this society and I call on the Constitution and this part of the questions that we have raised on the committee. [[Thank you very much, bring the end, colleague.]] How much does a model like this go against the Constitution? Because the Constitution says that the units of local self-government are the ones that plan their... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50920	Thank you. Replica Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50921	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. My dear colleague, you said in your debate that here we are, the mayors and the mayors, we have much against this proposal for a law on spatial planning, about decentralisation. I don't mind, and what I've told you, I'm now in the process of changing my own spatial plan. And I wouldn't mind if I saw this law now so I shouldn't ask and look for special conditions where my corridor of the state road is, where my corridor of the railway road is a compound, where my field of exploitation is also, where my parking areas and other things are protected. That should not be asked, but I'd be dealing with what's very crucial to me, where I'll be... the economic zone, where I will be in the agricultural zone, where there will be a zone of mixed construction of the residential zone and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] housing, that's what needs to be done and what you could do very quickly, put into operation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what we... We want this law to be lifelike, to quickly install our... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when you were talking about the economic zone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I absolutely agree that there are a lot of reasons why some economic zone can't be put into operation in five years. One of the reasons I guess is because I don't have that kind of problem in my city because I couldn't get 80 or 100 acres of gratis here let's find you, so another 20, 30 million kuna do something with it, but every square foot I had to buy land, exactly look rationally where I would be useful to make UPU and that I could sell that land to have an entrepreneurial investment in my city. I don't have a problem with that. Those who have a problem with having a large area of economic land may consider why they booked it if they do not have to. One example in my county where you really get first of all... of the country of the highest quality agricultural land for the economic zone which is now empty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, we have declared agricultural land where nothing can grow because it is sandy. We need that little spatial plan to change, what we can really... Make it work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50922	The reply to the replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50923	You said I wasn't interested in where the field of exploitation would be, where there would be some corridors, where this would be, where it would be. [[Intruder: Turn on the microphone.]] I'm very interested, I'm interested in where my kids are going to play, where tomorrow, one of my fellow citizens will find a place to build a life, a cottage, I don't know what's going to happen in the future. I'm very interested in what's going to happen in that space. And when you're talking about... Someone planned it like this, someone planned it like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think everyone's planning the way he went out to his voters who trusted him and who he promised something to. If he doesn't keep his promise, he'll move alone or they'll move him. As for the purchase of land, the resolution of those and who plans and how much. We've planned 5 million squares, and I'm sure we'll fill them out. We've filled in two-thirds and we're paying the same amount of land as you probably are. Now at this point, 30 euros per metre square. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we know what we want, we know what we want, and I don't want anyone up there to dictate it in that space how it's going to be. Because he's got his own representative body, he's got his own citizens, he's got his own county, he's got his own state, he's got his own ministry that needs me to help us re-evaluate what we're about to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50924	Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50925	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, you mentioned public investments that are happening today, so you said that in 500 and some units of local self-government there are 500 and some construction sites. Well, there's probably more. We had at least three opens in Sibenik at any moment. However, that has not proved enough. This is reflected in figures that, let's say, my colleague Schooker is very precise about how to implement and comment on whether we have enough investment and what is the state of GDP, with its growth, or the fall. Such investments also spend money from the budget of local self-government units, from the state budget or from credit responsibilities through the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development or the World Bank and now not to list any further. And we are talking about the fact that a whole series of investments, especially on the Adriatic coast, are waiting and standing to be realised with the money to be entered into Croatia. Insert into the blood stream of the Croatian economy and the Croatian financial system. That's what this is about. And that's a fact, let's not lie to ladies and gentlemen, we know that politics in a large number of cases has been blocking between different instances done immeasurable damages and stopping investments that would be valuable, which would be a question of survival right now. And consolidation, not just economic images, but financial images of this country. In the end, you are again alluding to centralisation, to the denial of constitutional rights, to the units of local self-government. On the contrary, so far the local self-government unit could try to articulate its interests through a business plan if there was no political will to allow it, more levels could block it. At the moment when it is clearly defined what an ingenuity is, there is a very public law prescribed autonomy in the use of these powers and powers. So it's not about centralised. It is, however, a clear definition of both rights and obligations, powers and responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50926	The reply to the replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50927	So here's a fellow construction activity, one of the areas where statistics sounds pretty bad. You said they weren't enough, the fact is they weren't extra. But they did. And at this moment of crisis and at this moment all of these preambles we have are one of the numerous investments in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia precisely because they were prepared by units of local self-government, starting from an idea solution to the outcome of permits, to the resolution of property-legal relations and to the realization. And also the fact in the mass of insanity that we have in this country, so the local self-government unit pays a water contribution to the coastal drain project, and if it creates a company owned by it, it will be freed so that the coastal drain will be owned by them. You've also talked about the communal contribution. There's a whole series of illogicalities that need to be corrected, but corrected in exactly this way through conversation, through exchange of experiences, through experience so far, because what we do if we continue to invest like this will continue to fall because there are growing pressures on local self-government units. Here we have introduced preschool education, and I guess we'll finance it, we'll introduce a bunch of other things, and the basic tools we'll have will be taken from us. I also want my councilmen at 126 km of my square space to manage that space in cooperation with the government, with the ministry, with respect for the strategic infrastructure routes of the state and to bring it to the state level. But what's going to happen in that space, and here I think the units of local self-government because that's what the Constitution is telling him, should be key to spatial planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50928	Thank you very much. It's time for my colleague, Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50929	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike some of the debaters about this law, I understand slightly less about spatial planning alone, editing, I understand as much as an average Croatian citizen or citizen. In accordance with that interest. This more to me in this part of the law, perhaps the most interesting part here was actually the information system of spatial planning, i.e. a system that needs to be able to provide easy, fast, free access to data about actually, access to public data on the situation in space and everything that is really important to us to the average citizens or to the average investor tomorrow. So I think that chapter 3 of the law, these Articles 26 and beyond is very important, because it offers a new standard, offers a new story that we haven't thought about yet. When we talked and thought about spatial data, we mostly listened to counter information about how people can't work because they have some bureaucrats who don't issue certain papers that need to issue or issue it after a lot of pressure, trouble and trouble, and in fact now we're turning the story upside down that actually all of the public information or those information owned by public authorities are in the information system publicly and free of charge to everyone. I recognize that as a significant step, and about that, I actually have two comments or questions or comments. I'm glad the law goes through two readings and we'll be able to fix it. First of all, I am very glad that the law says that this information system is being run as an interoperable system, and it seems to me that this is the first time we have talked about complex systems to mention the concept of interoperability. That's unusually important, people who deal with information systems know the importance of it. We ordinary people who don't do this mostly don't know except when we crash because these systems are designed on one platform or not interoperable, etc. And that's what I support anyway, and I'm glad that that's the word she found in the law. However, when I talk about it, I would like another word in this context to find a place in the law, and that is a question of plurality. However, although Article 32 provides that the electronic standard of the information system will be governed by a regulation that will be passed by the Government, I think that we can already foresee the law and we should foresee in law that in fact a fundamental principle for the construction of such an information system that wants to provide all the information that is owned by public authorities, of course other than those which are secret, which is very little in this particular area, must satisfy apart from the principle of interoperability and the principle of multi-formity. So it's not enough just to determine by a government regulation, I think it should be in the law. For example, when introducing some of these systems, we had a lot of problems, for example, e-taxes on which the system that has its own and its good and bad sides is, where it is made in a way that certain certificates or that the system itself can be accessed from only one information system, even though people today use a number of different platforms, and that is something that I think is important and that in some way would completely bring to life the basic idea that was in the bill, which is that the information is made available to everyone. That's one suggestion. The second part I have to admit is not very clear when I compare the text of the bill itself and this indication of consultation with the interested public and the question of Article 31(3). In fact, it's a locational information that's by its nature information, you've written in the law that it's not an administrative act, but it's in that sense for me to say an ugly word, but it's too late in the evening, so I can afford, pointlessly, that we can then by law determine that they are then issued in writing. So if the information system is operated exclusively in electronic form then and such information as is a pair of excellencies of information which is very natural information, therefore the administrative act is not the solution, it does not serve, based on it cannot be taken any further legal or any other action, it is written that it can be issued in writing. I would prefer to write that they are issued in purely electronic form because these information is in electronic form and exist because the system is exclusively in electronic form, but I would be satisfied and I would agree to say so if anyone will ask me about it, and they want to vote, that this information be in electronic form unless someone specifically asks through the request in writing that it be in writing. So we few people get used to the state administration working with electronic documents to sort of get used to people even though it seems to me that people are much more used to working with electronic documents than they are to themselves, than it is to the state administration itself. And this is a great example where you can practice it well, so to speak. Because I'm saying it's not an administrative act, it's not a solution, so there's not a lot of obstacles that it wouldn't be in electronic form. Now, the confusing part of me is about the indication of consultation with the interested public seems to me on page 5 of that indication of individual remarks. That remark was made and I am glad that it was set up and you have highlighted there, wrote that it is something that has been accepted, so I do not understand what it has been adopted because it is not in the law but it is now less important if we can agree to amend that provision in Article 31(3). In these non-verbal reactions, I see it's acceptable to you somewhere, so it's less important what it says in this obvious way. I'd stop here. I wanted to point out an important part of the law, which, in my opinion, is an important part of the law that and some of the problems that my colleagues have been talking about, might reduce, because information in today's time is power and then a lot of questions, many dilemmas will simply be closed. But it seems to me that this little step in terms of these two remarks to the second reading we can make, so that the law is really intensified, which is that we have all the information available to everyone and that they are, that they are simply free. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50930	Thank you very much. It's my friend Branko Bacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50931	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have indicated through replicas, and in the introduction on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, the fundamental differences in the concept of the adoption of this law in relation to the government's position and the resolution ministry. I now further want to say that the system that is in the spatial arrangement today is that, I would say closed by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of 2007 and, as someone mentioned earlier, on the basis of this law, all units of local self-government and all units of the district self-government, or county, have brought their own spatial plans. Now that these spatial plans have been adopted, when the system that has been adopted in the Republic of Croatia has been established, we are introducing a new system that we can agree on that should improve, speed up, simplify the procedure for the adoption of spatial plans but we are now introducing a system that on the one hand increases the number of spatial plans, on the other hand because of this law will force a number of units of local self-government to make their plans, spatial plans that must now be harmonised with this law that they must be changed within 12 months as it says in the law itself. Furthermore, both you and I have heard that on the parent and on the Committee on Environmental Protection, the position of your colleagues from both the Chamber of Architects and the Association of Architects when they talk about spatial planning, or the fact that from now on any spatial plan will be feasible, that it will be operational. The question of how much we can claim it when we know which floor it is on or I don't know yet, I apologize, I still don't know what floor the state spatial plan is going to be working on, what is the measure of that state spatial plan. So when I don't know on what scale the basis will be for making a state spatial plan, then there are even more doubts about what it's going to be like in local self-government units when you come to this debate with a plan of an extremely small scale. Now, what a valid debate can be held in units of local self-government and some representative body on the adoption of a spatial plan that was made in criterion 1 versus I don't know how many 500,000, million, I don't know what a cartographic basis for making such a spatial plan will be. Now I can also think about what it's going to be like to discuss in that local self-government unit and whether it can be measured at all by a debate that's being held on an urban arrangement plan that works on the basis of 11,000. So this announcement of democracy in the decision-making of units of local self-government in determining and declaring a spatial plan, a state spatial plan that was made on such a small scale, because I don't even know how to work on a larger scale of the state spatial plan that will be in the local self-government unit and the representative body will see that when the time comes. I said it, and now I'm gonna do it again. Even now, I don't even know how much centralisation is done because we're only talking in principle now, we're saying that the government of the Republic of Croatia will bring urban planning for economic and/or public purposes. However, when the Government comes out in public with this regulation that will prescribe all the premises and lands in the Republic of Croatia which are of particular interest to the state and to the county, then we will only hear the mayors and the mayors sitting here in this House then approach and what their relationship to this law will be. So I'll tell you one example. In this way, by making a bill like this, you may explain it better to me, but I premise that this is not how we believe, for example, the city of Zadar, we do not trust one city of Zadar based on this law that it knows best what is of interest for Zadar, for Zadar County and for the Republic of Croatia, but better than it knows the government and better than it knows the County of Zadar because the Government will prescribe by its regulation what areas and areas in the territory of the city of Zadar will be those that will be regulated by its Act of the County of Zadar. What are we trying to say? That the city of Zadar needs a tutor from the county who will give it more details through the urban planning of the arrangements which is in its space of importance for Zadar County, and the Zadars don't know that? So, the representative body of Zadar doesn't know so well that it's important for Zadar County, so we're going to get it up to him with this law from his jurisdiction and we're going to say it's going to be determined by the representative body of the Zadar County Assembly. Here, that's about one approach I'm up against. I think that the city of Zadar after the Government, or this Assembly, has brought to it a strategy of spatial order, after the Government changed the Spatial Planning Programme a month ago or 14 years ago, after the Parliament adopted the Law on Spatial Planning, after the Government adopted the relevant regulations and laid down the way in which the spatial plans were adopted, etc., the Ministry of its regulations, after we established the PDO as a protected coastal area of the sea, after all this had been prepared together for the city of Zadar to know, now I have taken Zadar as an example, that the city of Zadar will now know that all the documents of spatial planning and all possible laws have prepared knows how to implement it. Because a team more, you admit it yourself, and that's the fact, that when you bring it in, it's still on your watch. So the ministry is overseeing the adoption of these spatial-planned documents. And even if I can caricate to that extent, we don't trust our own surveillance anymore, but we're going to have to do it ourselves. One more thing, when I observe this law being passed and I know that in the second reading of the Strategic Investment Projects Act, then all this together gives me an even clearer picture of where and how the government plans to implement certain projects that the law proposes economic purposes is. It can be legitimate to ask whether we will not be able to properly accept certain projects that may not be well accepted in a single unit of local self-government, which may not be well enough accepted at a certain regional level if we do not, in this way, through the Law on Strategic Investment Projects where there will be one narrow body of government that will determine and determine what projects of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia are now that these projects that do not go through such a public will, with these urban planning arrangements, solve them more easily than that democracy that requires the adoption procedure for both the County Assembly and the City Council. I'm not saying that that's the way it's going to be, but this law, by the way, I'm telling you that I'm coordinating it with that law whose other reading is waiting for us probably very soon these hunches of mine are becoming completely justified. And that's why I'm not into it. I'm not for what we've established in local self-government units to raise them now. You're saying that the local self-government unit isn't the one who owns itself to edit its own space because that's what prevents the county, that's how the county edits the unit space of local self-government. Well, you know very well, you've been dealing with this problem a long time ago, how spatial plans have been created in Croatia. That spatial plans were made and the municipalities were those more valuable whose chiefs were more active began to make spatial plans long before the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and these spatial plans of the local self-government units were in a certain way a basis later
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50932	Thank you very much. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50933	Madam Vice President, at least you could have let me finish my sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50934	My colleague Bačić, here I am going to replicate this last part of the relationship between the county and the municipalities in the adoption of spatial plans. We formally, it is not mentioned here, so we have that the county plans the area of the municipality but always in collaboration with the municipality by insisting on what is prescribed by either the law or their particular interest. But he's always making arrangements. We haven't heard how it's going to be brought... to those special zones, isolated zones, and we've heard that we're going to adopt it in the Parliament if I've heard it well on the government's proposal. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, in that segment, I don't see the problem. Here's a colleague of mine said that we recently adopted a spatial plan of Primorje-goranska County after 2, 3 years. There was a problem. Let's say for Krk, who opposed some of the state's plans but ultimately supported some of these municipalities, but it was also adopted, let's say, in some normal democratic process. This is about clean centralization, and we will certainly go into more complicated rather than simple procedure, and the announcement of some new 550 changes is clear that the next two years we will not be doing anything at all. And where we're all gonna end up in the next two years, that's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50935	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50936	I thank my colleague, Boric, for allowing me to complete my sentence. So, I would like to say to the end that the county spatial plans or spatial plans of the arrangement of the county were created as a result of adopted and adopted spatial plans of municipalities and cities to the greatest extent and that rare cases for the counties to interfere with the units of local self-government and cities and municipalities development and the determination of the zone. In many cases, this prevents, in particular, in the coastal Adriatic part of this from crossing the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, or provisions under which construction areas cannot be increased in protected coastal areas in view of the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. And often times units of local self-government and cities want to have more building land, more zones either touristic or others but then it's like they're being blocked by the county. This prevents them from being allowed by a law that this House has adopted that often megalomanical desires cannot be fulfilled. Then the county largely determines because it is an extended hand through the Government's Office for Spatial Planning or in the implementation of the law of the Office for Spatial Planning restricts such desires by units of local self-government to develop in space so many construction land zones that they do not belong to the greatest extent by law. Thus, spatial plans were largely created, given that they respected the Strategy of Spatial Arrangements of the Republic of Croatia, the Spatial Planning Programme and that they had already adopted spatial plans for individuals of local self-government of cities and municipalities. Therefore, it is today that the counties are blocking and restricting freedom to the units of local self-government in spatial planning that is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50937	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50938	Dear colleague Bačić, so we've actually been talking since the time I'm here in the Parliament and we're always rhetorical about decentralisation and that's what's been in Plan 21. And whenever you listen to some big policy interviews in power, then you will hear that Croatia will be decentralised. We're always rhetorical for democracy, but what's going on? In practice, we are fully centralized and the laws we pass are not only this Law on Spatial Planning but the mass of the laws we have passed here in Croatia it is evident that the authorities are not even the least wise to decentralise Croatia, and besides many countries that have a high standard, the high degree of democracy has just done so decentralised their countries. However, this government has no confidence in anyone but itself, its paradics, the party comrades it has set up, and so that someone in the municipality or county could be good enough to plan anything, let alone decide on a spatial arrangement, so there is no D of democracy and everything we bring to the Assembly comes down to one thing, it should give as much power as possible to the party and establish not a democratic but a party state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50939	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50940	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You're right, you're a colleague of Vuksic's. I'm quite often here in the assembly I can't remember now which law was passed and which we could say is on the trail of that floscule that the government is talking about and which it pointed out in Program 21 of the Kukuriku coalition on decentralisation. Let's try to remember some important law that we've passed in which we feel a single bar was made in one segment in one area that decentralisation was made and that it was also followed by fiscal decentralisation, that the funds were increased by units of local self-government. It's the same way that this law is conjectured. I come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and I've followed up pretty much before and later on as a minister and later to adopt an urban plan of golfing at Srđ. I am sure that although not entirely he today has fulfilled the expectation of a number of citizens who declared themselves at a referendum held in the city of Dubrovnik, but thanks to the civil associations, thanks to the fact that this plan was adopted in the city of Dubrovnik which was not adopted in Zagreb or that he did not even say it would not have been a county assembly but was brought by the city council in any case by the court we are more concerned about because of this procedure which he now provided by law in a certain way more restrictive compared to what the investor expected and what was originally thought would bring about the investor. So precisely because of this fact that a great procedure has been made through public debates and repeated public debates, that is what has helped to preserve space. I'm afraid that when it's brought to Mark's square similar to the UPU far away and beyond the eyes of the public it won't have such rigorous control.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50941	You've warned me before, but you did when you spoke for the club when you were talking for 10 minutes, which is why these screens are here to follow. Here you go, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50942	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, since everything is politicized in Croatia, so is this topic. And to me honestly, I'm not an expert in spatial planning, but in my life, I've been doing a lot of different jobs pretty often, because people who have seen things in space couldn't understand the needs of people living in that space. And that's what always horrified me, and that's what I, as an economist, always couldn't understand. As well as reading the reasoning of this law something that I lacked so that perhaps I could discuss more specifically, besides saying that the law is important and very important and that probably the minister wanted to improve some things, but what I lacked from previous years is that we all forget that Croatia practically up to 6.7 years ago 70, 80% of the units of regional and regional self-government had no spatial plans. So with the effort above all, counterparts Dropulic and colleagues Bačića, Croatia has come to the EU's virtually all units of local self-government have spatial plans. And we came to some level to say the administrative arrangements of that area. And now what I lack in the reasoning of this law that in this administrative arrangement of this area is lacking, where the interests of the local self-government and the state conflict, and frankly speaking, maybe everyone would argue differently that 10, 15 or 20 state investments that are currently waiting, have investors, have everything but local self-government units are holding it back. Then probably everyone would argue differently, then perhaps everyone would think differently and think about the fact that this law wants to impose that a new completely new institution on spatial planning is that the state determines certain things. And that's what I told you at the beginning, simply, sometimes some projects may be easier to implement and easier to push through no matter how much they match that local community if they argue, if they're brought at a local level than if they're forced up. Because if they impose themselves on the top then to those who are against it, and you have people who are against everything and everything, they simply have great material to make one resistance to such an investment. And what my colleague Baranovic said unfortunately these times have passed that someone could have ordered that without the opinions and NGOs and this and what he's doing in someone's area, it's something, it's past time and we simply have to count on all the resistances during various investments and we can start from Rockwell in Istria to the golf course on Srđ, so we can go to some project... So there are just certain problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'll tell you as an economist why. Because there is no adequate fee for using space. And I haven't found any explicits in this law. And later on, I'm going to go through a few examples of that. 'Cause if you did that... , if it were an adequate fee for using space then there is no unit of local self-government that would not accept certain projects that are state and interesting and which state would impose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What counterparts Klaric and counterpart Mandic and counterpart Baranovic were saying was that units of local self-government would push some projects that were interesting to them. And that's undeniable. But also, let's not fool ourselves we're in the industrial decomposition of the state, so to speak, the disappearance of vast industrial spaces. We at this point have contaminated them across industrial areas and we... new economic zones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, we have hundreds of acres of industrial areas that just don't exist. Let's start here next to Sisak and then there's Zagreb, Žitnjak and this part where some factories just disappeared. Take that economic part in Vukovar. Nobody cares about that. But that's the consequence and legacy of more than 20, 30 or 50 years of it. But I'm saying if in a certain way it were discussed adequately about the fee for using space then I think all the discussions would look a little different. Well, maybe some units of local self-government would accept some projects if citizens and the complete environment would benefit financially from it, but unfortunately it doesn't. I'm gonna start looking back at the city I'm from. So, airport, to say now that you need to extend the runway by a mile and that you need to tear down 50 houses would have a revolution with full rights. But if there were adequate compensation for all those people living around, then it would probably be different thinking. You have one area that is the narrow water protection area of some future water supply site of Crnikovec there, unfortunately, you probably have hundreds or thousands of requests for legalization of built housing facilities. Now look, it's a certain vast area where people can't make an extra room for his child to get married and live in that house. He can't deal with agriculture because he can't use pesticides. He can't, there's no plumbing, there's no sewers, and now look, when no one offers him adequate compensation for using that space he... that he will be against it and without it we cannot talk at all about the quality water supply of the eastern part of Zagreb County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And look what's going on. A concession tender has been opened, a major water supply company has appeared and a newly invented county... gets that county firm. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the normal thing is that it creates a strong resistance to the local population. And then can you impose as much as you want that decision from above but you still have resistance to that population. And if we're looking at this spatial plan in this way of life, then you're probably going to think differently from the professional side maybe a little bit, maybe some things will be done in a different and more quality way. Because look, in the debate of anyone, no one has challenged you that you want to qualitatively raise this law to a certain level, but now it's just a matter of ways and models whether we agree on it or if we agree on it. You yourself have quoted a part of the law that says that certain dumps must be remedied and actually exploited fields and now... asked one particular question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pebble Čica in Velika Gorica, in some places the depths have been dug up by 50 metres. 30 meters away from the dig that is 20 or 30 meters deep you have a purifier that was one of the first purifiers in the former state. Who and how will, in what way, force these exploiters to, who exploit that space to resuscitate that area so that it doesn't become an ecological bomb tomorrow? Because look, it's not a question of this law, it's a question of the concession law, etc. But I'm just telling you. If you explicate in such provisions, do not put this law on the table, you will surely encounter resistance from people living in such an area. No matter what, you just have to point it out because you can't get away from it. Why? Because that exploitation field didn't occur a year ago, it started in '64, '65. A year. So you have something that's inherited and it can no longer exploit so much gravel that they're investing everything in the recovery of that area, I can no longer resuscitate it. But you have a potential environmental bomb. And there's this symbiosis unit of local self-government and state that's very important. And maybe the local self-government unit will solve it in a far better way. But look, I also mentioned an example of the airport. I wish you'd given me 10, 15, 20 projects that are standing in the state right now that can't be realized because they're being held back by a local self-government unit. And they wanted me to or didn't want to admit, fellow Taritash, Madam Minister, everyone who was head of the ministry had a desire to do something and in that intense desire to do something and grab themselves so that as soon as they could, they practically disabling the right of someone else. And then after a while when it turns out that it's not good because sometimes it's good wishes, actually the way to hell is filled with good wishes, unfortunately, and it happens. Therefore, those who are responsible for a particular area in the management of this area should be given responsibility to manage space, and a provision should simply be put in place in law for some strategic investments that are relevant to the state, which is how it should be done. You mentioned one thing here, and these are corridors for important infrastructure projects in the Republic of Croatia. So look, just keeping the corridor, not defining the area along that corridor, you haven't done anything. Look at all the highways, look at all the bypasses. Local self-government units, due to restrictions on the area of construction relative to agriculture, cannot re-purpose it. You now basically have an ambrosia plant with most of the city's bypasses and everything. Why? Because there is no provision that space along with these infrastructure projects is prescribed in a certain way because it can be some economic activity, it cannot certainly be residential, it cannot be a kindergarten. Therefore, it is not a problem to at least say in the law that 500 or 300 meters along with such corridors are some sort of mixed-use zone for some economic activity. So I didn't say about the profession, I just don't want to get into such controversy, but I repeat, every law primarily applies to living people living in a certain time and space and a certain environment, and I think we need to think about them first and then we're going to pass quality laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50943	Thank you very much. Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50944	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you were talking about empty space when it comes to entrepreneurial activity. Here before the summer break we had before us the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure and we heard that in Croatia we have some over 300 entrepreneurial zones, but unfortunately a good part of these entrepreneurial zones that is empty and since here in the law it is predicted that we from the local self-government unit can no longer get that land, I am asking what to foresee in this new Law on Spatial Planning of a new zone for economic activity if we already have 300 and some areas already in place and that are valid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50945	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50946	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Box, I did say that, in the light of some law, it is simply necessary to call on the current situation, the current state and certain legal regulations that regulate it because what the Ministry has proposed and what it proposes regarding the Chamber of crafts, as regards some other associations, is also in a certain way centralization because they are not well regulated, they do not know how to get along well, but they need to be done by the ministry. Unfortunately, even here a good intention to remove certain obstacles simply because of these bad experiences from other things, you wanted to admit it or not, Madam Minister, I'm not talking to you, I'm responding to my colleague's replica, I'm afraid he's pulling on it. Because if you have such a provision in one law, and you haven't accepted it in this law, then you ask a question whose law is stronger, which is stronger, and someone has to apply it. Then you have a reference that issues building permits or locations, however you like, as it will already be adopted under this law, and then he starts teasing you nicely and says he can't by this law, he can't by that law, and the one up there who assigns some kind of property to the Office of State, so there's some mayor and the captain of the opposite political option, why would we help him with the next election, so we'll do it on behalf of that and that law... and then we come... that might be funny, but unfortunately in life it's fact and truth. And not to mention that today, a bunch of infrastructure facilities in Croatia are not registered to the Republic of Croatia. If you need to build a water network along a road, then you have to invite all those owners who owned the country for 50 and some years because then there was a field, and in the meantime there was a road past, and it's also one of the big problems that needs to be solved and unfortunately, because I say the best of these 800 and so many thousands of legalization requirements, they best say what our situation is, and they certainly have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50947	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50948	Here's Mr. Schucker you said and mentioned a fee for usurped land, for a water protection area and related to this law is not the subject of this law, but in most parts it is. We have an example of the Municipality of Grobnik, Jelenje, Chavele, which is in the water-protection area, thus blocking the space for further development here in Article 38, and having a huge area, you determine that the provision of this article requires that land for agricultural purposes for forestland, agricultural land, units of local self-government cannot be changed. And let's just say in such cases it's just something that these local self-government units need to make up for what they don't have when they don't already get a fee. You also said the processes that have been made so far. The fact is that spatial planning is a huge process, but for this government too, a good basis has been created, so I am not praising former Minister Bačić and the video of the 6th month, 21.6.2011, on which it was launched to finally clear this space. But again, we need to go back to something that kills us all, and that's catastra, catastrian municipalities, that's abnormal means, and I don't know how we're going to do it through the next period. I tried in the previous laws that were proposed, but the machine is doing its own, a single word to be inserted into that law when it comes to encouraging, investing and entrepreneurship, and to inserting the interest of the Republic of Croatia, to enable in the premises economic areas the authority under the Law on land authorisation because it is blocking us all and blocking us. And in all of this, the preparations were made. This law should right now be a continuation of this law and again, in connection with the units of local self-government, you can't do it without them. They're the key to everything because they're leaving the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50949	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50950	Thank you very much. That's why I said that one of the key things to me is an adequate fee for using space. Once again, an example here from very close part of the city of Zagreb is the route of the Zagreb-Sisak highway on the part of the Croatian road towards the bypass. And now the interpretation of the profession and that's genius. Is this route, therefore, a reserved corridor, is at the moment of purchase of land building land or is agricultural land. Because the corridor itself does not define the status of the land table. And what's going on? The day today is practically not finished and people are looking for 250, 350 euros. However, everything is spatially complex. The corridor that was before that miles away was moved here, so the corridor is defined and looking with the basis of the spatial-planned documentation everything is wonderful, everything is beautiful. We have determined the corridor, but there is this problem. It's another thing. If you, in some estimates, expect something to happen in the next five or ten years, in this country's spatial plan, so you define that space for it, so this owner practically stops any interest in that space and the question is, in fact, a normal thing if he expects not to get any money for it that he will be the opponent of it and that he will in every way dive against that project. So maybe colleagues who deal with spatial planning, etc. It doesn't matter. However, it is one of the very important factors and very often brakes so remember, after all, how the story began around this building on the Flower Square. Today everyone admires how wonderful and wonderful it is, and some have run, so it's certainly better than rats running there. Therefore, I would be happy if the whole center of Zagreb was so decorated that we could be proud of what it looks like. Oh, no? But there were also conflicts over some personal interests because someone didn't get as much money as he planned for something.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50951	And Boris Kovac, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50952	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Representative, in that context, in that part of the story, that part of your presentation when you spoke about the protection, or restrictions of the owner, obviously in the area of Velika Gorica, it is the water of the protection area of the Chernokovec. Well, I can't believe you said it, and you mentioned it, at least that's how I heard it, the imaginary water company. I know you alluded to Zagreb County and a suitable water company. So this company was founded on the basis of the proposal and now the current mayor of Mr. Kožić and the decision made was confirmed at the Zagreb County Assembly, so where you are, too, the main coalition partner. So I don't know why an imaginary company, it's a company that I'm convinced is operating in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50953	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50954	My colleague Kovačić, I am a man with a name and a last name, and I have always had the interests of my city and my citizens ahead of any political interest. So my position on this water supply site and that the town of Velika Gorica should have at least 50% of its participation has always been clear and will always be clear. And I couldn't agree with it, and that's why I said what I said, and you know why it was founded and eventually Ivanić City will probably get water from there and I think it would be far more logical, that whoever is going to take care of the protection of that area has a share in that company. And therefore, I said so. Everybody in the county knows that. That's my attitude, but I say I'm primarily a person with a name and a last name. I think there's something in this crazy head that I can think of. What's of benefit to the citizens of Velika Gorica, and I think that's what's good for the citizens of Velika Gorica. However, I mentioned this failure because again on the trail of what we can move through you to Ivanic City to have adequate compensation for, those who have had adequate storage and gas charges and that the drawout site you did not object to anything. They don't have a problem with the ones that pump the oil out. So I was talking in that context. So when people have adequate compensation for something, they're easier and they're digesting what they don't like. And to do that, it just has to be mentioned somewhere in this spatial documentation. Because if you want to impose something on someone from the state level that they'll be there, then you have to make sure they have some sort of compensation on that basis. Therefore, you see that I do not speak, i.e. I thank you for being such a replicator because it is simply for the others to see that I am not talking about it because someone is proposing some other option and where my political option is, so I, as mayor of Velika Gorica, also beat myself up so that there is no gravel there, even though a spatial county plan has been introduced to throw me another gravel in Velika Gorica, but it has not passed them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50955	Finally, on behalf of the HNS club, colleague Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50956	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is still short on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club. I will refer to what marked tonight's debate, at least from our perspective on this law. It seems to me that we do not all have the same understanding for the context in which this law and this package of laws are being passed and others who will follow. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not all in Croatian politics aware of the moment in which we are discussing this law, which is the moment of a severe and profound crisis that lasts for not a year or two, which has been the product of a general crisis, a global European but also all of our weaknesses, anomalies that have lived and lived in this society for years. The fundamental discrepancies are whether this law further centralises the system or, from our perspective, it truly decentralises it and gives final autonomy within the framework of the authority of local self-government units to decide independently and to master space within their own powers. What is a matter of opposition is how the state level will determine spatial plans in its project management of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. Imagine Theodore Roosevelt in '29. The year of the big economic crisis, he had this debate in the American Parliament and imagine that he had to bring about that speed of spatial plan, space-planning assumptions about a new deal that was based on the launch of investment projects in the United States. I believe that even today, even the powerful U.S. would not come out of the crisis, and I believe that even today, the unemployment rate in the United States would be enormously high, but fortunately not. The way some speakers in this House want to set up a system would be in military terminology, i.e. by looking at it in military context as follows: according to some speakers tonight, the brigades should be led by lieutenants, and dozens should be led by generals. There was even a debate between the ministry and the government to determine what we're going to do in my local self-government unit in my country. So who will determine strategic interests and projects of strategic importance if the Croatian government does not? Are we aware, ladies and gentlemen, how many tens of thousands of construction workers are currently out of work? Of those lowest qualifications that are most difficult to find a job and to highly qualified builders in the Republic of Croatia, because all processes are slowed down or blocked in the construction sector, especially when it comes to large projects. What are we talking about? What are we ladies and gentlemen talking about? Tomorrow, in any debate, especially you of the opposition will cry over the fate of the unemployed, cry over the fact that there are no investments and the law that speeds up and clearly defines the procedures that are the basis of each investment you challenge. It is good that he went to the first reading and, of course, the promoter should consider certain things. But we are ladies and gentlemen of the ship in the weather and in the weather critical critical decisions are made by the captain. The other crew members in the zone of their intelligence. That's the facts. For us projects stand, imagine a situation where you have a project that must be implemented in the area of several units of local self-government or, for example, in the area of two counties. As long as it takes, let's be honest and realistic, until all the spatial plans agree. It's been years. The capital must be reserved, and the capital that is reserved and waiting to cost and collect the whole thing. And finally, I will look back on the style of our colleague from what the title of the Labour Party that works in a country where the official language of Croatia is very often, almost as a rule, takes the right of all of us other representatives and all politicians outside of their party to call the apparatus, listeners, comment on how we store chairs, and I will comment on the end of my colleague Vuksic that your chair and my chair is made of the same material. And that's where the party's equipment works, given the way it's been run about by the towers lately, they've been talking a lot. Therefore, order in your own house and then throwing in front of someone else's door. Thank you very much for tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50957	Thank you very much. You're left with the concept of debate. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50958	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I had no intention of replicating you until somehow the more you went through the end, you intrigued me to answer you. In fact, you've been great at the elaborates that this government blames everyone for missing investments, which is a decline in production, which is a decline in GDP, which is a severe crisis in the country, everyone is guilty, so here you are now finding the culprit in the units of local self-government because now that we're breaking this law, then in Croatia, honey and milk will come. Here's what I wanted to replicate for you. It is not an obstacle to realising investments such a system of making spatial plans but it simply requires a number of other mechanisms that monitor the system of spatial planning, a series of other incentives, a series of other laws that should make Croatia competitive, tempting and look for the culprit in local self-government because a lot of builders are out of work as you said, so who takes care of them I think is completely missed. Here's your government announced yesterday, for example, that it will abolish housing savings subsidies that have won the best housing project in the Republic of Croatia where one kuna that is subsidized from the state budget to housing savings is returned to the state budget by 2.5 kuna and we will cancel the project. But we don't want any other measures to go into order, to raise wages, to set up new agencies, etc., etc. That's why I've replicated it for you. That might not have anything to do with this law right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50959	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50960	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, you have concluded that we are constantly looking for the culprits in others. We're not looking for the guilty, we're looking for trouble and we're trying to get rid of them. I don't know just because you know how much I'm following politics, and I've been following it professionally, and I've been dealing with it for a long time, a fall in investment, secession and an economic crisis in my term when you were a minister when your government was in charge and you've found us looking for the culprits outside the government, or problems, but I'm interested in who in your time was guilty? I guess you weren't looking for problems and culprits outside the government, probably thinking you were responsible for it yourself. So when you thought about what you didn't give before the end of your resignation, you let others run the state, but you were trying to do something. And what you've been trying to do, what you've been trying to do, is that part of the HDZ policy that I personally appreciate. The way you've done certain things isn't exactly commendable. So much for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50961	And Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50962	I'll be on my way before I pick up the line before my colleague Baranovic said his last words, so I'll start with what I picked up the line for. Never has a non-democratic state gotten out of the crisis, not a single country with a cheap workforce. The degree of democracy is measured by the degree of decentralisation. Therefore, these are facts that are very difficult to dispute, namely European and global practices. What you said about democracy or not democracy in the Croatian Labours, what is said in the towers, I don't know. I know what the situation in the Croatian Labourists is, and I don't think I can deal with it here, but whenever I speak for myself first because we're not a party in which the president or leaders of the parties speak to their members. That's not what lab boys do. First of all, my smallness would never allow it, never be in such a party. You said that my chair and your chair were made of the same material, and I totally agree, but Mr. Baranovic, we're not made of the same material, we're not in the same parties, we're very different, and it's good to be different, we're different and we have what to pollemize about. I speak honestly, temperamentally from the heart and say what I think I should say. I will never challenge my colleagues as you challenge the law, and that you have led the country to the edge of the breach is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50963	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50964	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vuksic, the degree of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50965	Excuse me, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50966	A fundamental criterion for the degree of democracy in a country is the democratic right to be elected and elected. To call Croatia a non-democratic country is my personal assessment of a bit of a smile. Since some of them are for this democracy, I'll be free to estimate they've given a lot more than you, a lot more. As to whether we are made of the same material or not and whether we speak honestly what we think I may be one of the few, but in any case not the only one but one of the few who came to this assembly from the workers... therefore talking about employment about sensitivity to workers, calling other fellow aparasics, armchairs and the like at least untasteful. The right to diversity is absolutely the greatest value of parliamentary democracy, the right to differ in opinion is something that as a young boy I currently took off from the trellis in that colorful one and went back to the blue one. I don't know if you've made such a contribution to these values of democratic society when you're so confident and confidently giving lessons about permanent colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50967	And finally, on behalf of the Proposer, Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50968	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'm really going to use a little more of your time and time that they've given me to get back to our basic subject, and our basic theme is the Law on Space Planning. Indeed what's true is about an extremely important law, indeed in that law and according to that law, a number of other laws have the opportunity to be operational and I would like to once again point out some important things. In this esteemed House, when the laws we had prepared before EU entry were the Law on national spatial data infrastructure. I mentioned the ISPU at the time mentioning the Information System of Space Planning. When we talked about the status report in space, I also mentioned the ISPU Information System of Spatial Editing. I know you have different topics to deal with but I ask you nicely once when you have time or read the newspaper so go to the Internet and see the Ministry's website and many of the things that have appeared here as a topic might be clearer and it would be clearer for everyone to see how we manage space in the future, how in the future, first and fundamentally, the municipalities and the city, the county and the state. Allow if municipalities and cities manage space and have a real constitutional obligation that the state can also manage space. But how? By way of you, by way of parliamentary representatives. So once again, we today have a strategy that passes the Parliament and we have a program of spatial order brought by the government. The spatial arrangement programme does not go through a public debate or debate in the Assembly. We are just instead of the spatial planning programme said this program that we have today in the future will be called the Space Plan of the Republic of Croatia in the future will pass the debate through all 556 municipalities and cities and in the future this plan will also be adopted by the Croatian Parliament. And through this plan operationally put the Strategy of Spatial Arrangements as an operational document to everyone clear, open, transparent and accessible to everyone and everyone. In this way, local self-government units also have the possibility of both decision-making and commitment and decision-making and participation and discussion through a public debate of 60 days. There have been various topics since the road to hell was filled with good intentions. The fact is, my colleagues and I would have been simpler if we hadn't gotten into this big state-of-the-art process in space, they would have nodded their shoulders and said, and we're sorry, they can't. We've given ourselves a big bite. First we start with the Law on Legalization, 820 thousand demands is a big bite, a bite we've already started to solve, and we'll solve. The thesis for these three laws was laid last year in the spring, the thesis was set in 6 months. From 9 to 12 months last year, through public debates, through discussion we discussed the thesis, discussed what and how. With who? With professional publicity, with people in the field. The public debate was, we deliberately launched a public debate behind local elections not to be used for local elections, the public debate was over a month. We're all together, here that you see colleagues sitting here and I personally went through a month of 10 big centers and who did we invite? Architects, builders, engineers, electricians, mayors, so I mean professions, mayors and mayors. We've called the citizens in just as much as we've debated. Then when we accepted all these remarks and discussed them once again, we discussed them individually with the chambers. On several occasions, the Chamber of Architects was mentioned. I have to admit I might be a little more emotional towards architects because I'm an architect myself. Yesterday before going to the parliamentary committees were respected colleagues of the Chamber of Architects and a respected colleague who was once again in the ministry to pass it again. And at the end of the debate I asked them if they had looked at ISPU because they had doubts about the success of the law. My colleagues say no to me, too. I say, I can only ask you now for 10 minutes of your time to go to a fellow Mestrić who is my assistant and who is in charge of a complete information system and who has in his office a big screen and on that screen I would say, it looks like when kids play games but he plays serious games and he showed them what ISPU is and what are the options. So we see at any time where the nature of 2000 is, we see at any time where someone planned the pipeline, we, you, anyone. And they went out and said wow. ISPU is the basis, really, I'm glad you discussed it. Local information in writing is a transitional period. So we don't need her at all. But it needs our citizens, it needs for a transitional period, it is an irregular act and it will only be for a transitional period and therefore should be in law. So I ask you, once you have time, when, just go and see what it is. Because that's the future. In other words, I went into the debate and said that the value of these three laws is information, information, information. So, the value of these three laws and we'll really have a chance to talk tomorrow in that reception about the Construction Act and the Construction Inspectorate Act. I'm going to bond with that ISPU again because the ISPU is the basis. Through ISPU any citizen, let's forget investors, any citizens of the Republic of Croatia should quickly and simply get their license. When you quickly and simply get your license then more topics that illegal construction was created because of long obtaining licences will no longer be the subject. Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia at any time needs to see what is planned on the plot, see what he can get there, see when he applied for permission, but let me talk about it a little more in detail. See what paper he needed to get and see what his status was in his building. Indeed, it would have been simpler for us if we hadn't gone into this big process, easier perhaps to lie down with our shoulders, but I think we've been down our shoulders quite long enough. We've decided to deal with this big process, a big procedure, and we'll make it believe the laws are set up. We are, I'm going to talk about it tomorrow because there's going to be an opportunity on the e-authority. So the e-authority will be in the 10th, 11th month of the test phase. Over the next two weeks, I might even connect to the Law on Legalization because it also raised doubts about the Law on Legalization. Over the next two weeks, four people from our ministry are going through every 53 offices again, all offices are setting up a program in which every time they issue a legalisation solution, they will sign up for what they have issued the solution. So the floor line, the height, and we'll see it in the ISPU which house is legalized and which dimensions of the house are legalized. So in the next two weeks we'll do it. Equally, what you really have opportunities to see and see in the papers and what we're saying, you by passing the Law on Legalization, by making a provision that we said that 20% goes to the office, from 20% to legalization is quite enough for the office to work. It's just a matter of mayor and mayor who have offices whether from these means they're going to hire labour and they're doing or we're going to do it at the Ministry. But this legalization business will be done, it will mainly be completed by the end of 2015, and in this ISPU will then be for each building and will see what its status is. Because if you see, there are icons that are also called e-archives, and when it opens, you'll see what kind of license it is and what kind of permission it is. I am therefore extremely pleased that this part of the law is recognized because it is also the basis for this law and the basis for the Construction Law. And finally, Mr. Shucker has asked the question of land assessment. Indeed, one of the elements of space management is both land assessment and land assessment, so I only ask you, the provision of Article 186(5) of the regulation to be adopted by the Government, a regulation defining both the way and the methodology of land assessment. The regulation is almost so already done because what we want and what I repeat all the time, this is not an independent law, but a law you have passed. Let's forget legalization, you've passed the National Space Data Infrastructure Act. Croatia is one of the few countries of the European Union that has such a detected law, although it is also an obligation for other countries. We have an Inspire directive that speaks about the public, the transparency of spatial data, and we already operate that way. He's been voted in this House and the Construction Products Act, and I'm going to talk about it more tomorrow. These are the three laws, we will come before this respected House with the law on architectural and engineering activities already in the first quarter of next year, and in order for this to be operational until the end there are three regulations, i.e. two regulations. One is about the content of spatial plans which is at such a stage that we can already put it in the public, the other is about the content of an ideally main implementation project, and one of the great things operational about the law is this regulation that is mentioned in this provision of the law, and in order to be able to put them formally in the procedure, we must have law. So she's done, we've got a working team, we're discussing, we'll formally put her in the process after the law. So these laws really do not in any way reduce the jurisdiction or authority of units of local self-government, even more, but everyone decides their own level. State for state, county for county, municipalities and cities for city. It is set up by laws, and the laws can function and will function on ISPU. Since the 3rd month, we'll be in place by the end of the year, and then we'll have all the other tools so that we can function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50969	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later, and tomorrow we'll start at 9.30 a.m. on the proposal for a construction law. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 20.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-02-0.u50970	Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning, First Reading, P.Z. No. 466. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: - a proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning is accepted - all objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? There is. I'm asking for a result. I find that most 80 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 7 abstentions were reached with the proposed conclusion. Dear colleagues, representatives and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the established agenda. Now, the proposal for a law on construction, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 467. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. These are articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Minister of Construction, the spatial arrangement of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go, dear minister.
