ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63745	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. Have a good day. Before we move to the agenda, one notice. The chairperson of the Legislative Committee shall inform the members of the Committee that today, 13 December 2013, following the vote of the plenary session, the 73rd session of the Legislative Committee in the Chamber of Stjepana Radić 133 will be held on the agenda as it was received by the members. We will discuss - Final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Assistance Programme in Transition and strengthening institutions for 2013, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 559. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Union Funds Dr. Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63746	I thank the esteemed vice president. Honorable MPs and MPs. This law confirms the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA-Component 1 Programme to assist in the transition and strengthen institutions for 2013 in order to make its provisions in accordance with Article 141(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The financing agreement is a legal basis for financing the projects proposed by the Republic of Croatia under the IPA Programme 1-help in transition and strengthening institutions for 2013. The objective of the financing agreement is to regulate the conditions necessary for the granting of assistance to the European Union, rules and procedures relating to the payment of funds, as well as the conditions under which the funds will be managed. In particular, the European Union's assistance for 2013 covers six projects approved under the Programme, with a focus on the following sectors: justice, internal affairs, fundamental rights, public administration reform and social development. The financing agreement does not require the adoption of new or amending existing laws, but is financially binding on the Republic of Croatia and subject to confirmation under Article 18. Laws on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. The total value of the 2013 programme is €104.4 million, of which the European Union gift is €87.8 million, while the rest of the amount needs to be secured in the state budget of €16.6 million. In 2015, 88.4 million kuna should be provided for the implementation of the Funding Agreement. This will provide 74.3 with a gift from the European Union, while 14 million kuna will need to be provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. In fiscal 2016, it is necessary to provide an estimate of 16 million kuna, of which 13.5 million kuna will be a gift from the European Union, while 2.5 million kuna will be required to provide so-called. National participation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63747	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63748	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. In 2007 the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concluded a Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities on rules for cooperation in relation to European Community financial assistance in implementing aid under IPA pre-accession instruments. In order to implement the programme, it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission to conclude the financing agreement in order to determine the conditions necessary for the delivery of assistance to the European Union and the conditions under which this assistance will be managed. Support under the IPA component, assistance in transition and strengthening institutions for 2013 is focused on the following sectors: public administration reform, justice, internal affairs and fundamental rights. The monitoring of European Union funding projects is carried out through the Joint Supervisory Committee and the Sectoral Sub-Committee, and the National Fund of the Ministry of Finance is responsible for financial management tasks. In the fiscal year 2016, a total of 16 million kuna should be provided for the implementation of the agreement, of which 13 million kuna will be financed by IPA concessions, while 2.5 million kuna will be provided from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The basis for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is set out in Article 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It should further accelerate the implementation of projects from that financial year, and hence the spending of financial resources located by the European Union. In view of the nature of the procedures for confirming an international contract which also formally expresses the willingness of the State to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that amendments or additions to the text of the international contract cannot be carried out at this stage of the procedure, it is proposed that the adoption of laws be adopted by emergency procedure, uniting first and second readings. And this draft bill by the HNS club, the Liberal Democrats, will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63749	Thank you very much. Do you want your friend Pugliz to finish? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And now we should wait for the promoter for the next point. Here's a short break until we get our proposings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63750	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Programme of Transition Assistance and the Strengthening of Investments for 2013, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 559. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 99 votes for the adopted law P.Z. No. 559 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63751	We're continuing the debate. We will discuss - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 556. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session, and the bill will be explained by Deputy Culture Minister Professor Berislav Šipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63752	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Here is a draft bill on amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. That's with the final bill. It is proposed to amend and supplement the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods by regulating the following issues. It is understood that the provisions of the General Tax Law are applicable to the establishment of a limitation of payment obligations, given that in practice there has been an indetermination in determining the limitation of payment obligations of the monumental rent, and in order to apply a series of rules which referred to different laws. This amendment simplifies the procedure in such a way as to specify that the general tax law applies to antiquity. Furthermore, the period of validity of the provision, which reduces the number of payers of the indirect monumental rent prescribed in Article 114a, is extended. The Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods until 31 December 2014 so that, from 25 activities, only legal entities carrying out 7 activities commit to the payment of indirect monumental rent. Therefore, only natural and legal persons who carry out the following activities according to the national classification will pay a monumental rent in the period until 31 December 2014. It is a trade in large tobacco products, trade in large perfumes and cosmetics, retail tobacco products in specialized shops, telecommunications other than the maintenance of the communication network and transmission of radio and television programmes, then monetary intervention, auxiliary activities in financial services other than insurance and pension funds, gambling and betting activities. And this payment regime for indirect monumental rent, as you know, was introduced on 1 March 2012. The final provision provides that the law enters into force on the eighth day following its publication in the National Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63753	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63754	I thank you very much, Madam Vice President, and I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, especially Mr. Deputy Minister of Culture, and I thank him for coming. I hope that soon we will have the opportunity to see the minister, otherwise Mr. Shipus is constantly representing the interests of the ministry, and even colleague Dragovan occasionally wonders if the ministry has a minister, so here I quote it this time. Of course, the HDZ Club is not opposed to facilitating economic activities especially at this time of crisis. In 2010 and 2011, reliefs have already been introduced into the system of monumental rents. But I'd like to get this story back to square one and say that this kind of relief for the economy might not be the best. A memorial rent has been introduced for two thousand years because those who carry out economic activities related to cultural heritage are in a way participating in its preservation. That was one reason. Another reason was the great direct war damage on cultural monuments, which, according to the Commission's lists of war damages, amounted to over 300m euros. At that moment and in these frameworks, it was impossible to expect that a Pakrac, a Vukovar, a Gospić can restore their protected units and cultural goods alone or only with the help of the state. So, that's something that came from. Furthermore, the important feature of the monumental rent is that it is neither tax nor parafiscal imposition, and there is a mistake of a colleague from the Ministry of Culture because they now go to the general provisions of the Tax Code. It's the price of using the public value of cultural heritage. It's neither tax nor parafiscal imposition, and that's why in English it translates as... Not as a tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The point of why this is so is that funds collected from the monumental rent must be reinvested in the 60 percent ratio of the local community that collected it, 40 percent of foreign countries must reinvest in the protection and restoration of cultural heritage. I say reinvest, that's actually a key word because with that monumental rent becomes a state investment. Because the state of these funds has a commitment as well as a local community of 60% of the funds to reinvest it in reconstruction works. On the website of the Ministry of Culture, I don't know if it's an accident to be filled by Mr. Deputy, there's usually a so-called. Register of licensed companies licensed for works of restoration on cultural goods. These are largely small and medium-sized enterprises, specialized crafts and those companies that specialize precisely in such works. There are hundreds of them in Croatia. So, today in Zagreb, you must contact such a company or such a craftsman if you want to restore a window on the Parliament building or on the Government building. Because such products simply don't exist in serial production anymore, and this is treated as cultural good. Therefore, it must be renewed in accordance with the documentation. So, these funds that I believe according to the ministry's estimates are somewhere around 60 million kunas were actually an investment to survive these small crafts and economies. We've been doing that for the third year. Even colleagues from the ruling coalition when we had it on the agenda for the first time said it was only temporary and that it would not be done in the future. The question arises whether by prolonging our colleagues and colleagues listen well to me 0.05% not 1%, not 5%, not 0.05%, but 0.05% of the income we forgave someone or stopped, while at the same time losing almost 60 million kunas that we had to invest in the restoration of heritage which would be done by Croatian specialized crafts and companies. Is that what we got or lost? That's a big question. I think it would be worth a careful analysis to see how much we actually have in some way and endangered the existence of certain parts of the heritage, but also endangered the certain existence of certain crafts, quite certainly. The more you look at the budget of the Ministry of Culture, then you will see that it is particularly threatened on those items, related to the protection of cultural goods and that, in accordance with the budget restrictions, the part is particularly reduced. Otherwise, by the way, the entire budget of the Ministry of Culture isn't set up as it should because for years you've had a stagnation of, say, a class of budgets called entrepreneurship in a culture that isn't growing, and I think I should be deeply convinced to grow. Just to stimulate any private enterprise initiative in the culture sector. It is precisely these items that encourage and with their effect ensure certain economic effects that should grow in contrast to those items that are growing, which are concentrated on direct consumption. For example, grants to non-profit media. Whatever that means. So that's exactly how the budget was supposed to be set up according to our deep conviction. The more you get this situation by prolonging the collection of the monumental rent, the more we distance ourselves from the one we keep talking about in all the debates, which is almost 5% of the EU's employees in the cultural sector, 4.8% of the European Community's GDP. That's what we're moving away from. And we are deeply convinced that this is exactly what Croatia has potential for, even in terms of specific aid from the culture sector to the overall economy. This could also be done, and this may be a constructive proposal, since by joining the EU many and cultural institutions, but especially certain local self-government and administrations themselves will report to EU funds by themselves many of these projects will be related to the restoration of cultural heritage. Whether it is in certain facilities to give a new tourist purpose, whether it is to open some cultural content also necessary for the local community of libraries, galleries or everything else... and that many of these projects will have a chance to get some EU funding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why not get a special budget class from the monumental rent because we will quickly have a rebalancing as announced by the finance minister to provide funds for those cultural institutions and for that local administration and self-government that choose their funding project by European funds. To tell them, we encourage your initiative to compete, we encourage your initiative to create projects, apply to EU funds, and if you get 10 million here, 25% of what every local community has to give you in this fund. This would completely reverse the situation because it would encourage local administrations and self-government not only to apply to the state budget, to call for public needs in the culture of the Ministry of Culture but rather to encourage them to turn to Europe, and they would know that the state has the support. If the fund is not elected, it may be re-allocated in the budget re-balancing to other needs that are needed. So that would be the way by these means, I repeat Article 114a. Last time we established 0.05% of the income. This would then be how funds from cultural heritage on the one hand go into reinvestment in reconstruction and, on the other hand, encourage some kind of initiative by local administrations and self-government and cultural institutions. It might be the right way for us. And the next time a decision like this comes back, I know it's an emergency procedure now because the budget's coming in next year, and that's why it has to be aligned. But this would be the right way to set things up in times of crisis. And that's what I believe everyone might agree on then. In this way, you downloaded 0.05 first of all of your colleagues and colleagues after the Honorable Deputy Minister listed these activities that were not released and we welcome this, we welcome that this is not free from banks, casinos, telecoms, etc. What you said, we absolutely welcome it and to them really their decision that 0.05 is not too much of a burden remains actually a hospitality. Of course, that's always the question of why coffee at Stradun cost me don't know if I should be corrected by colleagues and colleagues from Dubrovnik 15, 20 kuna, is it because it's on Stradun or because coffee is so good? Look, if you look at examples from the world, if you look at examples from Rome, Venice, Athens, you'll see the cost of it because it's in SV square. Mark, because it's on Fontana DI TREVI and because it's on Stradun. Therefore, there is a direct impact of the cultural environment on the possibility that prices for economic services are formed. As a result, there is also a certain broader social responsibility to somehow return 0.05 of that income to the restoration of heritage. Keeping in mind that this heritage will continue to contribute, then, to the possibility that this coffee may be well charged to tourists or to all. Furthermore, we are all aware that Croatia is in some way blessed but in some ways it has a duty to take care of a large cultural heritage corpus and that there will never be enough money in the state budget. What's also definitely a fact, is that in certain objects that you don't start to rebuild now that in 3, 4 or 5 years, the costs will be much higher because the renovation will be much more difficult and much more complicated. That is why it would be better to intervene with these means now because according to a survey of Travel magazine that provides information that almost 70% of tourists visit Croatia for cultural and natural heritage. It is such a strong brand in the promotion of the destination, in the promotion of Croatia as such, so strong is a container in preserving cultural identity that you can't imagine it. There's not as much strong a logo as a strong logo, say a photograph of the Sibenik cathedral or the Wall of Dubrovnik, it's gone. There's no slogan that's so strong. It's not just in Croatia. So look at all the other tourist destinations around the world that go first on tourist brochures, natural and cultural heritage, precisely because of these researches to sort of further brand their destination. All that I think is necessary to keep in mind when we're making this decision, I'm saying to have a fact that we absolutely welcome. We understand the desire to facilitate the Croatian economy but we argue that this is neither a tax parafiscal imposition but the price of something of general value and general good and that it is a big question whether we have put more economic operators at risk than what we have made them easier. In this regard, here is a colleague and colleagues of the HDZ Club will take their stand in voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63755	Thank you very much. Replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63756	Honored Madam Vice President. My colleague Mesic, I agree with what you said but it seems to me that you have not highlighted one thing, so I want to point out in a direct way. I do not think that you have stressed enough that investment in cultural heritage is especially in the old city core along the Dalmatian coast of our Croatia's fastest way of returning money invested and in the direct function of increasing GDP and income from tourism. We wouldn't if we hadn't committed such a revitalisation of the city's core in every sense, we wouldn't be able to make as much of the tourism as we've seen in recent years. And I mean, I'd also like to suggest that a part of the budget that's planned for the restoration of facades should be invested if we cancel the memorial rent that we should beat something out of that fund, a part of the money to rebuild the old city's cores, and that would be the fastest refund, far faster than this. And the effect for the state would be the same. I think it's clear to all of us that there's no money, but it's supposed to be for this, I want to say it again directly, I am for removing parafiscal duties and much stronger than maybe here in the Parliament that I've heard in the debates, but this rent, the monumental rent, can't have the status of other parafiscal duties if it's necessary to get caught from funds from different associations and given for this. I think I've made myself clear. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, one question. I apologize, you spoke briefly while I was preparing to give... What about, I apologize, Madam Vice President, then when the minister arrives, in the final word. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63757	You can't ask a question. Your time is up. Ask like this. Call for a hearing and ask. The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63758	Definitely what he wanted his colleague Marasovic to say, it is a vulgar, primitive devastation of one of the central national archaeological sites of the British head where someone built a brand-new cement tomb and it could not be solved for years and surely a colleague of Marasovic wanted to appeal to it. Definitely what's said, a monumental rent can really do a lot of things. We even allowed the infrastructure to be refurbished in individual protected cores because look, you have the Motovun case where the sewers and water pipes were buried which is an integral part of the infrastructure. As they were bathed, the water went off, so-called. The kidney on the Motovun walls and walls collapsed in that part. So by intervention and in this part and monumental rents, intervention and in this part you save cultural well-being and it is possible to make monumental rents. And monumental rents are also possible to support traditional crafts that are located in protected monumental units. Because these are the wholes that have been created as a result of such a way of life, not only because of currency exchanges and cafes, but because of that, but because of traditional crafts. Very quickly, very quickly, according to EU rules, it will be the only way you will be able to protect traditional crafts, just through a monumental rent, by registering them as a national immaterial cultural good and then having the opportunity to intervene financially in their action. Look, let's take this Stradun, considering it's coming. You don't have one traditional turn on the main street, and that's where the local administration and its 60% of them should intervene here and somehow help, and this is where I think you're absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63759	And Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63760	Thank you very much. My colleague Mesic, I respect and respect every word of your debate because it is well-intentioned and because you are, and very professional, thank God. But what offered me a replica is that you said that according to some polls 70% of tourists coming to the Republic of Croatia are coming because of cultural and natural heritage, united. So maybe we could talk about how much of it natural heritage attracts and how cultural. I don't want to be bad, but some distinction between these two heritage although both Croatian and each other is welcome because of Croatian tourism, perhaps this is what it is, I'd say like when we medics say that the mortality from cardiovascular diseases is 90%, and in fact everyone dies from cardiovascular diseases because the heart stops when a man dies and then it dies from cardiovascular disease, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63761	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63762	Ma, my colleague, I agree with you that just such research was set up, such was the option of choice and it is likely to assume that if it were to be separated naturally from cultural heritage that a little more people would round up the choice of natural heritage. However, it is no wonder that such a question was originally asked in the research because, even in the tradition of Croatian heritage protection, which is more than 150 years old in some parts of the country, natural and cultural heritage were always connected together, and even later in Croatia through the state administration, and later they were united in the Ministry of Culture, now that this government has come apart, I'm not sure it's the best recipe. For what? Because if you take the example of Motovun, I like to give it as an example, which is like a Burgovian settlement on top of the hill, of course, it's just as important to preserve that display as well as its walls, those steeps leading to these walls, de facto natural heritage, or the environment, because in that area you build a new building or skyscraper or some infrastructure facility, then it's not that whole anymore. That is why cultural and natural heritage is logically linked to the system of protection. Or if you have a protected area of natural heritage such as Plitvice Lakes then it is of course that there is important that you have traditional architecture, rural architecture according to nature, based on stone and wooden construction, etc. as is the real example of Krapje in Lonjsko polje with that move by the Posavian houses you can't actually find anywhere in Europe, here you can see the true combination of both natural and cultural protection and synergies of common protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63763	On behalf of the Club, a representative of the HDSSB, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63764	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. There was a debate yesterday about the draft constitution, this side was full, today three men, but well, it doesn't matter. Krleža once said "Save us God of Croatian Culture and of Serbian heroism". Why is the Croatian culture so highlighted in the words I quoted from the late Krleža? Well it is emphasized because we, this culture, actually let me say briefly and clearly leave, leave and not maintain what we can and what we have potential is not financially enough to support one image of one form of Croatia. As Jasen Mesic said, I don't think Stipe, so he would say it in a joke most likely, so it's about cultural and natural heritage. What does this have to do with the monumental rent and 60 million kunas at the annual level that remain since the non-exposure let's say parafiscal even though it shouldn't be so, an imposition called the monumental rent even though it's what those who pay it all consider it? Who stays out of the obligation to pay the monumental rent? All those who are not in these 7 groups, which are wholesale tobacco, perfumes, small shops with the same products, telecommunications, banks, insurance houses, and betting facilities, etc. Here's the ones that are bonds of paying the monumental rent. And that's said by 31.12.2014. so I guess we'll be passing the same law again to help the economy, so at least it says in the reasons of the proposal for a law to be passed by an emergency procedure, says that certain entrepreneurs and economic operators would be relieved of payment of the monumental rent, which is 60 million kuna in a year or, say, a monthly of 5 million kuna or 0,05% of income. If we divide these 60 million kunas into local and state levels, that's 35 million kuna for all units of local and regional self-government, and there are 560 and the state remains 25 million kuna to help economic operators. So we did, and in health care, we reduced the contribution by 2% as a savings of 2.5 billion, and the health care went to where it was in losses and dubiosis, and we didn't actually help the economy because the economy and the results of the economy are seen best from the data we have from both the Chamber of Commerce and the HGK and the DZS that measures both GDP and all other indicators. It is true that there are mainly small businesses, it is said that it would help here say that we would help the economy for 60 million, but we are part of an economy that deals with reconstruction and works on cultural goods. There is a shortage of funds, and a sum of 60 million kunas, I do not say that money should be wasted but in the total budget of 130 billion kuna, 60 million kuna is a drop in the sea, which for these companies, businesses dealing with, which are also professional to deal with reconstruction, therefore educated and highly sophisticated in our activity we have denied 60 million kunas, which is a drop of fatigue compared to the Croatian budget for next year. I will not cite examples of cultural goods that are abandoned and which could be first-class attractions as cultural and natural heritage. Mr Mesic spoke of Motovun, the same or identical situation we have with the town of Zrin, which I claim is that here who are not from Sisak-Moslavina County almost certainly do not know where Zrin is in Croatia. So the place of birth of our famous Counts Zrinski with a fortress on top of the hills like the town of Motovun, which is completely devastated and each year a wall or part of the wall is built. With that fortress on the so-called. The dry border towards the Turkish Empire was a series of fortresses, fortification facilities that they like to say in culture, so Fortress Pedalj, Fortress of Gvosdan Croatian Alamo, which even students don't learn what happened there 500 years ago when the crew under the command of Nikola Ozagovic froze with 300 Croatian soldiers, and not by handing the fortress to Turks who possessed it for half a year, Croatian Alamo does not learn about it. And the Turks, when they entered the city, found 300 frozen Croatian soldiers under the command of Captain Nikola Ozegovic about it, few know. Furthermore, Klinac city in the same county of Sisak-Moslavina, Ruzica city in Slavonia and a number of such fortification facilities, which throughout the military landscape, which is in other places, that is wealth, that is Croatian wealth. In connection with showing and natural goods, I also asked Mesic, natural goods and with the expansion of content with such facilities where for example. In the city of Zrina you have a living water source of 20cm that springs from the hills and water flows. It could also be economical with that water. Drinks lead the best, mountainous, mountainous, pure, unpolluted because there's no industry there's nothing. There are five grandmothers and three dids who live there today. But good. I mention this because someone also mentioned the princes of the barbershop or the barber head as an example of the devastation. In Croatia, cultural goods, regardless of this parafiscal burden, which some so call "forgiving of the burdens of cultural goods" are very slowly renewed and are very slow to put into operation of what Croatia can raise and attract tourists. Thank God here is the Zrinski fortress on Adi at the Uni near the Croatian Kostanica is quite renewed, but we still have a border dispute with BiH to which it belongs. It's really interesting, we build, we invest money, and we haven't solved the border dispute yet. And we have restored Zrinski fortress to the Union, to Ada near Croatia's Kostajnica, and we have not resolved the border dispute with BiH. Very interesting. So I may have expanded the subject but what to say is whether to vote for or not, when this is for a year, when really for those 60 million people don't know what to say, to free the economy of 60 million at the level of all Croatia. Imagine, 60 million to 20 counties that is 3 million kuna, the county will remain local self-government million and 600, and the state million and 400. It's real. It would be good if we used these funds precisely for the candidates, and we could have hundreds of projects from this domain, hundreds of projects, because Croatia has been forced through history, how it sings that song, and we could show to Europe exactly what Krleža said, not to save us God but to give us the God of Croatian culture that we also show Europe what we have to the world. So I think it's best not to vote at all, to be abstentioned, and the HDSSB club will vote on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63765	Thank you. Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63766	Thank you. Well, I agree with most of what my colleague Boro Grubisic said. This very system of fortification in the former system... is exactly the right model for applying to funds and adopting new tourist purposes as part of protection with natural heritage. It first started with Hrvatska Kostanica for several reasons, mostly because of those facilities that connect there with Kesteniad and additional tourist value. It started with the city of Zrinski, it also started with investigative conservation works related to..., you know that... it is not only fortification but it has this particular monument of industrial architecture, one of the oldest high... that we have etc. So that's the whole assembly that's... In my view, with the help of the Ministry, local administration and self-government should have that major blow to European Union funds where this monumental rent could help. That's exactly what I was saying, how to help the economy by looking at the whole picture, from this aspect of a particular cultural activity. As for Bribery, there's a savage there because I don't know how else to call it came to an archaeological site, dug past the permit tomb, made himself a tomb because there used to be a cemetery and penetrated entirely of course archaeological layers, i.e. And I've been in the ministry, and I don't think there's an end to that right now, and it's not comparable to this kind of waste of heritage that's going down, let's say for lack of funds, I won't say negligent though sometimes that's the case. This is a simple devastation of the worst guy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63767	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63768	My colleague Mesic, thank you for the replica and for supporting my debate. Namely, the first Croatian coin of money, so-called The Croatian bankers who forged the Counts Zrinski was in Ironjski, so in that village, the place, however you wish. Who knows where the first Croatian money was forged? In Irony, then they were called bankers because Ban Nikola Zrinski was. Furthermore, in that same area there is a hill known to Sjesnica, Mesic about it. I say when you look either from the plane or how it looks very much like him, you'll laugh at me now, but they used that so-called Kaknja. Pyramid, give us some deep research on that hill. Furthermore, there is a legend or a story about a city called the Greek time of Stridon. They say he's in a triangle between Sisko, Karlovec and Bihac. This particular hill corresponds to the location, as well as numerous archaeological findings collected by an amateur, the deceased now, in a small school up to 4th grade, to a regional school, which disappeared during the Storm and in the provinceal rule of that area, proved to be one city that had more than 30,000 inhabitants. About that little anyone knows here from us, about our cultural heritage. That's why Krleža said what he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63769	Otherwise, ourtrigova in Međimurje has the name Stridon. Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63770	To paraphrase the Krleža, give us the god of Croatian culture, absolutely and what ours should simply be kept. I, when I talk about this monumental rent, am absolutely 100% committed that all income belongs to local self-government, which is not the case, and it would be great to revitalise the entire monumental heritage, but on the other hand we must simply think about this moment, about those who pay taxes, contributions, who hire, pay wages. That part of our economy simply must, it must survive, otherwise it will no longer be for anyone and we must simply understand it. And so much, not only should this contribution be reduced, and there is savings where both local and state can be found, but all other parafiscal burdens should be reduced, from contributions to chambers, whether they are economical, whether they are craftsmanship. We saw for ourselves what was just going on there. Which means, on the other hand, only this reduction in deficits from 6 to 4.7%. Well, that's about six billion kunas that are just going to need to be cut. We gentlemen can't go on like this. And what's 60 million kuna? Well, that's about the equivalent of one referendum that some are now announcing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63771	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63772	counterpart Kajin, Milanovic said democracy has no price, don't disappoint your boss. So democracy has no price, Mr Milanovic said when the vote for the European Parliament was separated from the local elections, and both could have been done together this year. Well, then don't accidentally object to your boss. Furthermore, if we sold these Toyotas bought for the MUP Republic very easily, we would even buy for the culture if we Parliamentarians here agreed to each of us give something for our cultural heritage. There are also a number of other items in the budget where these 60 million kunas could easily be settled, perhaps more so as to help us right now as much as it is expensive minimum for what we have, which we have, and which is falling away from this cultural heritage in the Republic of Croatia which would easily return through tourism visits, through a good story in the combination of cultural and natural heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63773	We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Dujomir Marasović, please. Individually from the scene, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63774	It's all right. People are wrong. I don't mind some warning that there's a few people here on the right. My colleague Grubisic, how many of you are out of seven? He's not here now or there he is. And there's 29 out of 150 in the hall, and now my colleague Grubisic, I don't know who you belong to when you call your right and I don't care who you belong to. I just see you holding back and... The left and the angry left. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you've been showing it eclatively lately, day by day. Okay. I want to do this item on the agenda I won't be long, but I will be required in relation to the ministry. About this topic we are above the average informed people in Croatia, politically and certainly in all other ways and we know more than anyone. The barber head is Croatia's Troy or not to mention some other parallels. There's been a major devastation. One man excavated these old graves and archaeological sites and the locality as such and made a tomb in the form of a five-point star, each seven-metre long concrete object in an archaeological site of pair excellence would be said. And what have we done now? The Croatian state tried through the institutions, went to resolve the dispute and the state's attorney's office, Mr. Mladen Bajic and the local lawyer's office in Sibenik supported it. We've got all the legal tools, instruments in our hands to work it out. So the State's Attorney's office has given support and incentive to deal with it, and we haven't solved it. I'm speaking to you now, she wrote to the minister, but it hasn't been a month since she came to power of this set and you haven't been anything in two years, you haven't blinked, you haven't even been obvious. My whole debate comes down to it, I, Mr. Prime Minister, ask you and the Ministry of State to solve this matter in a way that all cultural nations and civilizations and democratic states would solve it. When? Now. You have demands from all sides, you have logic, you have an excuse. And are we the state? If we don't solve it, we're not a state. And then what are we going to do about tearing down some houses that way... by the island, by the islands or by the sea or by Sljemen if we can't sort it out in some way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you, I demand that you read and deal with it. And what benefit do we have from you being manifest? We're asking that we all handle this together, and now you're the minister, or the deputy minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63775	Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63776	Thank you very much. A colleague, both professionally and by all means Dujomira Marasovic, who is left and who is right could be difficult to determine. But we'd like to count the secretaries that were in your party before the 1990s, and we'd like to see that there are far more KPH secretaries, or the SKH, than even what you call the left, and which is not the left, but the liberal SDP, so-called. And as for the presence at this session, two out of seven, two out of seven is 30% and you three out of 45 is 6%. Therefore, five times our presence is greater than your presence in this session, five times larger. Therefore, we were never in the HDSSB coalition with the SDSS, but you were in a coalition with the Serbian independent democratic party for eight years. There you go. And the other thing about the barber head, I'm completely in agreement with you, and this is the first one at all. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63777	Replication response, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63778	There are circuses in the Parliament. So some MPs ask us to do more, think of the Parliament for two months, and at her club of three, she's on her own from time to time. Another member, or member of the Parliament, comes, one never comes. Therefore, we are making cartoons out of questions, and Boro Mr Grubisic is making cartoons out of some percentages, etc. I wanted to say my true replica is now the answer to the replica. That he should be fair to himself and to the Croatian public. You're the demagogues here. Why? So read on the ad board, 5 committees perform at the same time. There's 50 people behind the board. They're all in the halls. If you don't know Grubisic, look. You're talking nonsense, you're selling demagogy here to the people. 50 colleagues are at least more in the back of rooms, in small halls. From all parties to your party and HDZ. And you're selling to the Croatian public that there's little on the right. Whom do you sell it to more... And how long will you be doing that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63779	Comrade Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63780	I agree with my colleague, Marasovic, about his appeal for the resolution of this situation regarding the devastration at the site of the British Head. There he is, I don't know at what stage of legal proceedings he came to deal with this problem. The fact is also that sometimes there are problems with the means of execution because if the person responsible for this devastation will not pay for it himself, it goes to the cost of the state, and then it is refunded by legal procedure. But for that, there's this monumental rent we're now prolonging. Therefore, we could also use these funds of monumental rents to intervene in these situations, or to finance from the monumental rent some other project of reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63781	You're talking to your friend Messic in a microphone, you're not gonna hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63782	But I'm replicating Duja Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63783	But the phonogram can't, it doesn't get into the phonogram of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63784	You have to admit it's a little illogical if a man like this replicates his colleagues. So we could then use these funds from the monumental rent for some other cultural project and then release the funds from the budget so that this and similar devastations could be removed and in some way further restore cultural heritage. And the barber head is certainly the locality of a couple of exellances of national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63785	Replication response, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63786	You're right, but you know what, I don't think you understand the point of my opening speech in relation to the ministry. This is about Croatian instruments, today it is modern to say tools, not instruments, but tools, instruments of the Croatian state at its disposal. This is where we're looking... Croatia's state to be seen in solving a problem it can solve. So there are two variations. That the Croatian state will not solve it, and why won't it solve it? There's no other excuse. It's not a question of funds, there's nothing to invest, why won't the Croatian State, Mr. Dominister, solve it? I can't interpret it any different. And I can't stand the press of these people from Sibenik and Skradin who are talking to each other, so they've gone after Sibenik, they haven't found enough echoes and Skradin, and now they've caught me from Split because it has to do with the Split Archaeological Museum, and every day a hundred memos come to me, and you're nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63787	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63788	Mr. Representative, everything needs to be reduced, all of these parafiscal burdens, and that's how these should be reduced. Interests should be reduced, other parafiscal burdens should be reduced, taxes should be reduced, contributions should be reduced, the number of local self-governments should be reduced, the number of ministries, the president of these advisers should be reduced. One word to the economy needs to give a breath and should simply survive because of this same economy, especially this small one, we all live in a way, and not to, for example, single out how many 1% of our contributions to HGK. How about their boss or ex-boss or who's already wandering around the north pole and killing polar bears and... cattle. Maybe that's what I know about the monumental rent, and then for one form like that, you need to find extra funds. But I want to say... How? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, okay anyway. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But what I'm saying is, just as our economy cannot survive it and needs to be helped, it just needs to be saved. In these two years, it's down 8 billion kuna, and what do we have? It's still sinking. It is necessary to dissipate the economy simply and to reduce the cost of functioning of the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63789	Replication response, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63790	I agree, Mr. Caine, I just want to explain my position to you in response to the replica. Two, three months ago, listen to the phonogram and I said that the HGK needs to be lifted in a way that she, I said it here and I said it here and I asked for it and a lot of people laughed at me, especially on that side. I asked that mandatory membership be abolished in the Chamber of Commerce. And we're fools if we don't end it tomorrow. And now they're going again, they want a cut there. It needs to be lifted, tossed into volunteering. Who needs to be paid and should be useful, and to whom I do not want to say that I am the Prime Minister with this power, as he has so many hands, 100 hands SDP and Kukuriku and their satellites, so with 100 hands so much power in the Chamber of Billion Euros, i.e. 7 billion kunas, I counted in boring evenings Wednesday and Thursday in Zagreb here as I am billions of euros, 7 billion kunas without any problem from the state cost and no one would come here to St. John's Square. Mark to protest. But this furniture didn't have the guts to do it two years ago. Now they'll have to cover themselves with Brussels. At a bad time and it'll be harder to take off than it was two years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63791	We're continuing the debate. A colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63792	Thank you very much, gentlemen Vice President, Minister with a colleague. Culture is likely to be if we exclude politics from the most important and wider area of general public interest and therefore also care but also sensitivity in culture must be particularly focused on policy, policy as guardians, as well as promoters of the artistic and cultural development of the state and society. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Cultural Goods directly encourages the improvement of economic activity in cities and municipalities. It also impoverishes the Treasury of the Ministry of Culture, as well as the local communities, and this important segment of preservation of the protection and reflection of cultural monuments. We are all aware of the need to start an economy, thus liberating the economy as many taxes and burdens as possible. That's where this law goes. Personally, I think that the release of the payment of the so-called monumental rent must be limited by time. I am convinced that intensive protection of cultural units and monuments is more than necessary. The Croatian state is rarely a large amount of cultural goods in this case of cultural monuments and cultural monuments. There are numerous economic operators that work and contribute to and in cultural monuments or cultural and monumental environments using the attractiveness and beauty of these monuments to increase earnings. In the last two decades the level of protection of cultural heritage has been at a level of more or less basic maintenance and we have witnessed various devastions, monuments of culture and numerous for the purpose of guessing in suspicious economic activities, similar individuals and similar groups. It crashed, for example. in front of our eyes paromlin in Zagreb. In some cases, even leading to personal existences in danger of investing individuals, lovers of culture, and people who understood the irretrievable devastation of cultural and artistic monuments and works. Systemic protection was carried out at the level of official work and should be repeated and bowed thanks to individuals and individuals in love with Croatian cultural heritage. Our ancestors left us with an immense wealth of cultural heritage in all fields of cultural and artistic expression, in art, musical art, literature, architectural works of art, theatre arts and all other arts of art, and in folk heritage is quite specific to ordinary heritage. It is the task of all of us to speak more often and more responsibly about the facts of Croatian cultural heritage. The task is particularly educational institutions at all levels to educate citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a proper but unquestionable way. The protection of cultural heritage is and must be a high area of expertise with unreserved support for policy at all levels, therefore large but never sufficient material resources must be collected from those who have the privilege of doing so in or on cultural good. Today, in Croatia or outside Croatia, many artists who also leave art that could and should be the artistic and cultural heritage of future generations and the status of contemporary artists of all areas are concerned about future cultural heritage, and that is our concern but it is another particularly important topic. And at the end of 1st of July 2013 Croatia has become 28 members of the EU, citizens and citizens have begun to make full use of all benefits used by citizens and citizens of any member of the EU. All cultural good members of the EU have become culturally good citizens and citizens of Croatia. All cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia have also become good citizens and citizens of EU countries. It is clear that the cultural benefits of each country signifies the cultural dignity of citizens and citizens of that particular country, art, for example. Art... The artist is also European art, but it fully identifies primarily contemporary Flames. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is how we identify our cultural artistic heritage by entering the EU and promoting our cultural specificities, and we should be proud. With its cultural heritage, Croatia's introduction into the EU is a unique and extremely rich artistic cultural heritage. Our culture is so different and so much the same within Europe, various powerful or less powerful influences of the East and the West, authenticity, the richness of diversity on microtasks and the incredible number of effects have made Europe's culture and European cultural heritage by entering Croatia into the EU considerably richer. We must be proud of this, but it also imposes additional responsibility in cataloging, preserving, presenting and preserving our cultural heritage. In the context of the proposed law, with full understanding of the importance of the start-up of the dried economy and of the firm position of the need for systematic institutional protection in the preservation of cultural goods, it is important to release the payment of so-called "supervisory" property. monumental rents limit the duration. And finally, the protection of the preservation of cultural goods requires large but usually insufficient material resources that must be collected from those who have the privilege of redecorating into or on cultural goods. The protection and preservation of cultural goods is and must be a high area of expertise with no reserve policy support at all levels and therefore all of us who are directly or indirectly responsible in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63793	A clear Mesic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63794	Well, I agree, but I also said in the debate on behalf of the club, I'd like to see one analysis of how much we've helped the economy with this and how much we've put it at risk. And if this decision is already coming to us for the second time, or another time in the meantime, I think we've had to do some kind of analysis, so let's give it to the MPs. Or here's my second suggestion to you colleagues. We're going in two readings. Why emergency procedures? Let's do an additional analysis between the two readings, and we'll all make a better and smarter decision if we want to help the economy. But the problem is that you're really going to jeopardize the survival of certain companies that are no longer, no, these knowledge disappears. I was just saying this to my colleague Cain, you have one or two companies that know how to rebuild mosaics into frasians, and he knows it well from Istria. You've got one or two companies that can reassemble a posavian wooden house, which still... You have one company that currently works, which knows how to build those protective cages on the sea floor for.../The speaker doesn't understand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it fails, you'll have to call a lot more expensive and I dare say more incompetent strangers. You are already in some monastery complexes from other EU countries, Poland, from Romania with a very questionable quality of the works they perform. How are you going to prevent that if not just these progressive measures against these people? And there's damage, you know, irreversible. That's why cultural heritage is often said, value invaluable. Because once it devastates, it's a classic example of you concreteizing the Pula arena, never because of it... Never, because she went to intervene with concrete years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63795	Replication response, Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63796	Thank you very much. Mr. Mesic, I really agree with you about your attitude towards culture, cultural heritage. But there's one huge one, but it's just that this is the ministry, not only this ministry, but this government has inherited the terrible holes in the deficit, the terrible debts, and this government is trying to make ends meet. And that's why there are so many problems, so much effort, and that's why this ministry, I believe it feels like they're getting their teeth out alive, putting this law, but it's necessary, it's necessary, everyone's saying, it won't, I don't know, 60 million kuna won't save the state. But 60 per 100, some kind of reserve is created, saved wherever it can be, squeezed wherever it can be, not because it's done from someone's whim, but because it's simply necessary. Indeed, as far as culture itself is concerned, and that is one legacy that is incredible for Croatia and for which all must truly be proud and indeed we must protect it more than possibly many other things in this country. Perhaps this law, and I believe that it certainly gives certain benefits to economic operators to survive this difficult economic crisis more easily and easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63797	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63798	Here, thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Blažekovic. I fully agree with your debate, but the problem is to find the right measure between the amount of money and reconstruction. This way the ministry wants to help the economy, I think it's a good thing some companies aren't freed, I think that's a good thing. And what I would especially like to emphasise is that it may be more important here than the restoration of everything, to preserve cultural goods from devastation, and here I think that, with the right legislation, we can have a significant impact on the preservation from devastation. I think that would be kind of the most important thing in this time, while the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry don't have enough money to rebuild quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63799	Would you like to answer that? And colleague Damir Rilje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63800	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Well, here, I'd take this opportunity and a few personal thoughts about this bill, amendments and additions to the law. Look, he is himself relatively simple and there is no reason not to accept him, not to bring him in, since he edits two, three things that should actually go hand in hand to those who pay the monumental rent, but in itself and extend the period of validity, which reduces the number of taxpayers paying the monumental rent by 31 December 2014 and, of course, it is arranged, therefore, by an outdated payment of the monumental rent. With that in mind, here I have prepared a few sentences about it, but in fact somehow it draws me to say a little bit more what is actually related to culture, the preservation of cultural heritage and everything that we have inherited together, which should be our resources, from which we should actually earn and what should actually be one of the foundations of all the units of local self-government in which cultural heritage, of course wherever there is, I think that throughout Croatia in many units of local self-government exists, should actually be the basis for development and progress if it is allowed, but unfortunately it is not so. On the one hand, I won't be here talking as much about money as about centralization of cultural heritage management, which would mean that local self-government units have very little space to influence and can't build on the overall development plans and investment plans unless they're going to give some money at some point, they can ask for something to be made, add, do. Here I come from a local unit so that there's a plastic so little more explained to you, then I'll tell you that from the century 7th, before that, we inherited something, if we came in the century 7th, they say that we are and everything we inherited should in some way from our grandfathers and then on here and on their grandfathers and all the ancestors and those who were before us, actually put into function and try to earn it. People come, we're lucky to have what we have. But perhaps there is insufficient agreement and determination in relations between the units of local self-government and the Ministry of Culture, i.e. competent conservation departments towards cultural goods and preventively protected goods. So, here is no specific insight of the local self-government units, if it is not managed for it or if it does not require particularly appropriate interference and demand that it has insight into the works that will also be refurbished system that will be agreed in the appropriate unit of local self-government. It wasn't like that once, but let's let it go, it was a different time, but unfortunately today we have cultural goods that stand in office and are being restored in the long run, and none of them are getting anything from them. In fact, they're a concrete expense and this particular cost should be but he can't be a renewal deadline can't be 10 years, 15 years, 20 years. Therefore, there are conservation departments that are usually financed for individual projects in restoration and research of cultural ages directly from the ministry and often from local self-government units have no idea how and how these funds are spent and cannot be affected by whether they can be partially addressed or put into use. Even some of them are used as warehouses and can't put the units of local self-government into operation at all. On the other hand, we have some cultural goods for which procedures can be made. Local self-government units even offer appropriate funds, there are building permits executed requirements, studies conservatively, and then stop, can't work any further. For what? I don't know. I guess it's because there's a public procurement and anyone else might answer it. Maybe I'm implying a little bit right now I have no intention of that being in my head. I want to say that there are resources that units of local self-government especially in those who have them can and must use it in a way that is one of the cornerstones of earning and achieving budget revenues at least as much as possible in order to avoid the danger of potential distortion, collapse or further damage to the relevant cultural goods. For example. My town Trogir also has a conservatory department and here I will be decent, I've had the chance no more but I've had the chance to cooperate. We've worked together in something we haven't, but it's an open-air museum, let's say another kind of Dubrovnik. And now we have one of the most beautiful Renaissance courtyards that has been working for almost 15, 20 years, working, working, not in function, having eaten of the oldest unique churches in the heart of the city of Barbara, which for more than a year, more than two, is used as a storage facility for cement bags or I don't know what, can't even look at it, let alone charge, let alone a tourist map where you could visit all churches, all cultural goods, all fortresses, all that could enter the city's budget register to finally share. What? One part that belongs to the church goes to church, the other part that belongs to the city goes to town, the third part to rebuild one part of the ministry, and that's that. But it was not possible to do this, some studies were done there, indigenous spaces some got a new look, they got some new contents that needed to enrich that same indigenous space with visions of old statues, statues or call it whatever you want, statues would be Croatian. Not to imply now, the ministry gentlemen know exactly what I'm talking about, I'm talking about a town that's 2.5 thousand years old, what you don't know before, you don't know because there was no money for further questioning because before that there was an Illyrian settlement. The city is protected by UNESCO, they can withdraw funds, we haven't come to talk about it yet. We've come a few times just to say that we're told it would be good to give whatever money out of the budget. You know in the budget money never quite particularly if he was who he was. Someone will always tell you what he was like, but there's data. So that means either you spend in promotion, sport or something else or you spend in culture and economy and, of course, there is no economy without it. We have two parks, one monumental park of cultural heritage, so like Arboretum, and one is a jithology-ornitology reserve. That's the level of county management. And what's left of the city? There's nothing left for you in the city. The city at the end of the entire ballad has no ability to use its own resources. When you take a few buildings, palaces or whatever you want to see, I don't want to describe it to you right now, but surely the Ministry knows what it is they have on them to carry state property, so the state owns it, then we can only pray, please let's put it into service because the only thing we can make of it is not sell, but make a profit. In other words, let us put into office any tourism as mentioned in this bill, any other but ultimately economic which will help us to raise the economic level or raise the ability to make better money. Unfortunately, so far, there hasn't been too many joint performances and understandings except that we've got a new old man call him a statue somewhere in the middle of town and I'm not going to comment on him here, is that the subject of some other conversation and story. I would just like no matter who, when and how and which unit of local self-government works, works and lives to have all its resources able to put into office. So one part gets the state, one part gets the local self-government unit and all the interested but this way it's certainly not effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63801	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63802	Thank you very much. Comrade Rilje, you, above all in your debate, brought your local status to the monumental heritage, the cultural heritage of the City of Trogir, which I deeply respect and love because it is indeed a city that you would say before Christ, so that 2,500 years has really been a long history. This city is under the protection of UNESCO. Unfortunately, here in my county, I have to show myself because you encouraged me to say that in Slavonski Brod and Posavina County it is not the case. So we have a ship's fortress which is the largest and most beautiful fortification facility in the continental part of Croatia that still stands devastated since the departure of the former JNA. It's unearthed like you say slowly for tens of years. It lasts part by piece, piece by piece, really if that fortress were to show itself in full splendor and restore in that glow as it was when it was made 320 years ago, then we would really have one true jewel of continental fortification culture. In the county, we have a series of such objects. For the city of Gardun and the fortress, so today's Garcin Municipality, once called Gardun, you don't even know where it is, the serpent's nest says it's in it. So there is no renewal, there is nothing, in the middle of the woods of the wood section of the forest, of the Croatian forest, but there is no sign of the city or voice, and it was once one of the main defence towers towards Turkey, according to the border. Long ago we're border guards old enough to say our song. As far as Djakova and that mimosa are concerned, if Vinkovic were here, he would certainly be talking about the mimosa that is state-owned, which cannot be transferred or reorganised and put into office in the town of Djakovo itself, and otherwise the monumental heritage of the city of Djakovo. I'm sorry that you in that yard of yours say, Mr. Rilje, listen to me, you have cement bags and it turns out to be a recycling yard. It's more modern than a real cultural yard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63803	Thank you very much. Replication response, Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63804	Dear colleague Grubisic, I agree with you in principle. Look, I have to go away, we all have to go away because we're going to find a common denominator relatively more or less everywhere, no matter how old and appropriate it is. You know someone's been lucky, someone's been less fortunate, some have had a war of one, the other, the third, and the one at the end of Homeland. Someone has managed to protect, someone has more opportunities, but what we have is very rich and it has a lot in the Republic of Croatia and the fact is and it's my thinking, look, okay, the Republic of Croatia has to have a notion of it and must actually manage all cultural goods, but actually they are all in local self-government units because it is the Republic of Croatia. And we would all have to have in some way one share of the story. I'm not saying that the part that would refer to that conditionally said tourist map where someone would visit and pay 2 euros or how much. Why, it goes on purpose, why would my fortress... stand there and I have to charge someone 20 kuna, where's the content, where's the story? We're talking all the time that we're in capitalist and market social relations, and we're not selling the story, we're just selling physics, which is just here to buy Coca-Cola, drink a beer or something else, and we actually have very content values, we have a culture, and we certainly have what someone wants to hear, see and pass. If someone else had met it would have been a fundamental resource, only I would have wanted those units of local self-government to be able to work because they weren't, because all those funds, all those palaces, all those walls and all that other stuff would get me very well, somewhere more, somewhere less in the function of a case and history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63805	And colleague Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63806	I listened carefully to my colleague, you'll be against this bill because this law makes local administration and self-government have much less resources in the culture budget, so I understand your position if you're going to be against the law. As far as centralised in Croatia is concerned, cultural heritage management would disagree, because more than 50% of I think the programme is approved by local administration and self-government. Behind them comes the church all expensive, parishes, dioceses, archbishops and all the church communities, when I say church I mean all that, behind local administrations and self-government. They have the largest number of programmes approved not only in the protection of heritage but also in all other public needs in culture financed from the state budget. In fact, the conservatory department Trogir was founded to further decentralise this because the position was that as soon as the conservator was closer to the monument that this protection would be more successful and because it was more impossible to cover from Split from the virtual hinterland of the Dalmatian mountain to the island of Vis on the other side. It was impossible to cover it from one department, so it went to separation, just to achieve that decentralisation there. The Ministry does not conduct public procurement related to these projects, therefore, if the problem is in public procurement, then it is either in local administration and self-government or in whoever is the holder of the programme. The Ministry thing has nothing to do with it. I'd love to criticize the Ministry of Culture, but simply what's true is true. As for the renovation, you know you have monuments where the renovation takes 50 years, and you have places where it doesn't stop because that's the nature. That now someone gives you 50 million you can't spend because the dynamics of working on cultural goods are completely different dynamics of building and large infrastructure projects that draw on themselves resources. It's simply impossible if you want to make it in accordance with the rules of the profession. Here's what I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63807	Replication response, Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63808	Dear Mr. Mesic, you've explained it very nicely and plastically, but unfortunately the truth is different. There's company A and firm B and they can get a job. That's why there can't be a square in front of the church of St. Dominica on the waterfront paved in spite of everything. You know when there's a building permit and an insurance fund by the city, but it can't be split. For what reason? Now he's up in the wild somehow and half of it, so we planted the grass. I wanted to bring in two more sheep, so that the tragedy, or goats, would really be what he was named after. And I love him until he's unconscious. And all the citizens of the city love him. And those who are now and who govern it, and they love it. And if that were such a fact, it's familiar to me, but you know what I remember, I grew up there, I played the cathedral. Therefore, it may be the unit of local self-government on paper, but objectively there are projects that stretch out and go on and on and on and on. It's a fact, a fact of life. And then you have I mean what you should be priorities aren't. I didn't ask for the sawmills and the walls to be restored. They were bombed by someone in World War II, honored by the Allies. Never mind. But the fact that this is the yard I was talking about, I believe you know which yard I'm talking about. I remember when it was open. I asked. You know what's in there now? Nothing. You know how to get to a conservatory unit that, by the way, gets told and gives the city 345 squares of space that they're now rebuilding. Not at all. That's where the bars are. You have to make an announcement, leave a taped note, and that's it. So you know what, it's all nice to hear but it's not really life like that. Life is always a little different, so I don't say other things now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63809	And the final word of Deputy Culture Minister Berislav Šipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63810	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I thank everyone really for the exhaustive debate, no matter what I might tell someone it went wide, but I think it was useful to hear everything. I see that, in fact, the very law here on the protection of cultural goods, i.e. the topic of cultural goods and the protection of cultural goods, is an issue which is obviously all about. And my colleague Blažekovic, I think, paintably said that we really feel pain in the Ministry of Culture in situations like this where we have to give up certain funds. But I repeat, given the economic situation in the country, we believe it is necessary to extend the period of validity... It is at the annual level of 60 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that so many funds will remain, meaning some economic operators are available, primarily tourism and catering activities, the activity of travel agencies, transport, etc. But there's that one, too, but... I remind you, my colleague Mesic certainly knows this well, 10 years ago, the Department for the Protection of Cultural Heritage had almost 70 or 80 million kunas more than today. I'm still warning you about the next one. There was a trend when it came to monumental rents and budgets, that budgets began to decrease for the protection of cultural goods just because there were considerable funds coming from the monumental rent. Unfortunately, this substitution is not a good category. I believe that indeed the state itself, the government itself, of course, and then the Parliament must, first and foremost, step up the budget by its own means and with its own responsibility. The memorial rent was one of the additions that the ministers Vujic and Ministers Biskupić, i.e. counterpart Mesic, used and still used these funds today, are really only for this and can't be used for anything else. Both colleagues and colleagues in local self-government know that. It must go into culture or again to protect cultural goods, and through the ministries exclusively in that category. However, if both can be appealed to the same monumental rent, it is indeed necessary for those performing and the economic activity. That at this point, this amendment and the addition of the law is needed to facilitate the economy. But I also think that we should keep in mind that budgets are very important in all of this. Because I remind my colleagues Mesic and Mr. Biskupić have yet to launch a major project, such as Vukovar, Ilock, Vukedol. The project didn't seem to cost that much at first, but because of the situation or simply because of the devastation of certain cultural goods and during the work, the situation was revealed and there were situations that required other means to make it seem to me from the initials 50 million kunas that were previously, perhaps at the time of 2005, the sixth one was scheduled. We're on today, along with the CEB loan at 330 million kuna. This is the huge money this country gives and we all really hope that here next year we will be able to visit both the archaeological park and the Vucedol and the Eltz Castle, the Baroque Curia Museum, or Ilock itself, and that they will not only return as cultural good but also become a newer, more quality content. I thank everyone really for the debate one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63811	Thank you very much. We also have a replica of counterpart Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63812	It is, very short. As for what counterpart Blazekovic said, but it is related to what the esteemed deputy minister said, the minister herself made a statement when she took over the Ministry of Culture, Mrs Zlatar made a very official and correct statement saying in the Ministry of Culture there were no skeletons in the closet and there were none. What counterpart Blazekovic said that this government inherited a very bad situation is a statement by the culture minister, correct. As for the distribution of the monumental rent of the budget, most economists would say it is good, counterpart Šipus thinks it would be better if the state financed it from its budget. It is also possible, I allow that, but then it needs to be seen in the budget, and unfortunately the situation is that our budget is being reduced unfortunately and that the sum of the sumarum will also be affected by cultural heritage and other segments of cultural activity. Project... The first contract was on 189 million plus VAT and the truth is that there were both deadlines and finances, mostly because of these situations said by the Deputy Minister, but also because of something else because it was actually the first such big project that we were doing in the service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We haven't had that experience before. The fact is that when you start rebuilding the Eltz Castle and then you go into the central hall and you find mines there, of course you have to get all the restaurators out, that you have to go specifically to negotiate the demining of space so that someone doesn't get hurt in that. Here, I believe that there remains the possibility of a memorial rent for the ministry that it would have been able to get rid of before and eventually round up this project that I know the ministry is working on, that the Vucedol Museum would sooner go into a function that could then draw on itself a tourist offer and everything else and round that story to the locality... which was said by counterpart Grubisic, who is considered the southernmost point of the werewolf culture that has just denied where the ministry opens the museum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63813	Would you like to answer? ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues, we'd like to finish the debate today. At 12:00, we'll vote on the points discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63814	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 556. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes and 15 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I ask the Mandate-Immunity Commission, the chairman of the committee, the respected colleague Gordan Sobol, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63816	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 29th session held on 12 December 2013, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the request of a representative of Višnja Fortune, who informed that, in accordance with Article 14(1), The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament puts a parliamentary mandate to rest on the day of 13 December 2013. Article 14(1) The Law on the Elections of MPs is prescribed that the MP has the right once during the term of office, by submitting a written request to put a term of office on hold. The Croatian Retirement Party shall be in accordance with Article 12. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament ordered that the representative Višnja Fortuna be replaced by Marija Ilic. As the mandate-immunity committee has established that the conditions for the start of the stay of Višnja Fortuna's representative's office are met, as well as the conditions for the start of the behaviour of the deputy representative, Maria Ilic, we propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the stay of the representative's term of office of Mr Višnja Fortuna, on 13 December 2013 and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative, Maria Ilic, on 13 December 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63817	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision by the Immunity Commission. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I find that, unanimously with 108 votes, a proposed decision has been made. Now we're going to approach the oath. The oath shall be given in a way that the President shall read the text of the oath and thereafter, when the representative is called up and pronounced by the oath. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. "Advocacy Maria Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63818	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63819	Congratulations. Give it up. I wish you success in joint work and joint responsibility. Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Croatian Supervisory Board. The decision is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You've received the motion for an act. Does the representative of the board, the respected Branko Vuksic, want to explain the proposal? He's gone. I'm opening a debate. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote... I'm sorry, I didn't hear or see that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm reopening the debate. In the debate, a respected representative, Boro Grubisic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63821	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know we've had enough of today and debates and work breaks, but I can't leave this last point without commenting and not having to say my own opinion on this. I know that we all have enough but there are also plenty of typical examples of the application of political likeness and nepotism in the selection of such officials, mainly on HRT. the HRT Supervisory Board. Because there are no members here, or pardons from the chairman of the Information Committee, but I think the vice president is here, namely this material says that the board invited all candidates to the interview on November 28th, so 15 days ago, and that the decision was made the day before 11 December. I don't know any candidate who's been reported to be a member of the HRT Supervisory Board, so I don't know the one the board suggested, and that's Svetozar Sarkanjac. But from this material that I carefully studied, I see that or I don't know why the board decided for him. He doesn't have a president, but maybe he has other members, so I can tell. In fact, it is evident that the board appreciated lifelong learning. Since the primary education of the said candidate, selected winemaker, fruit and winemaker, was then enrolled by the Faculty of Law which he did not finish, and last year he graduated from the Faculty of Reporting, last year at 51. Well, I guess that's appreciated lifelong learning. Secondly, multidisciplinaryism may be appreciated in view of the 10 employers he changed in his working age, the candidate who was proposed here. Is 10 jobs with 10 employers as far as I can see. So it's about labour mobility and flexibility, and it's also appreciated. Therefore, it is either knowledge or multiple knowledge of the knowledge and skills needed for this place on the HRT Supervisory Board. In addition, here is a certificate of knowledge of the English language that the candidate gained in enrolment at the Faculty of Law 30 years ago. So, regular English in the first and second year of law school. After that, we have no knowledge of the knowledge of a foreign language, i.e. English. That's why this way and this kind of appointment is really a lot of these kind of methods agreed on by political resemblance and it's actually about nepotism. And that's the axles, and that's the ones from Osijek, Vrkic-Borzan, who put their candidate on the HRT Supervisory Board. This way, HRT is no longer public television in all structures, but has become a semi-private or television set of people. I won't say whether it's a minority or most but one group of people. That's why I'll be against this election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-13-0.u63822	Thank you, too. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision on a standstill. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 85 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 6 abstentions have been decided to appoint a member of the Croatian Television Supervisory Board in the text as proposed by the applicant. This is what we've exhausted today's work. I am concluding the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament. I'm scheduled a new sighting on Monday, and the session is on Wednesday. You received an invitation for an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. I'll see you. I'm locking down the session.
