ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35491	Here you go, colleague Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35492	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, please pause for 30 minutes. Namely, information has surfaced on all major portals, in all major media outlets, that German Chancellor Merkel has cancelled her arrival in the Republic of Croatia. It connects to the Perkovic case. At the same time, German police have raised the warrant and raised a reward for information on Mr. Perkovic from 5 to 12,000 euros. So, the clear signals we got from Germany. Clearly, what we have warned is now happening. And please take a break so the Parliament can discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35493	A colleague, Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35494	And the Croatian Labour Club prays for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35495	I'm a colleague of Salapic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35496	I'd like to join the same break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35497	My colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35498	Also Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35499	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break to 12.37. MEETING IN 12.20 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.35 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35501	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ advocates' club asked for a break after we received information that has already become very widespread, it is also being discussed among journalists and media that the German police have issued a warrant and raised a reward for who will give them information on the whereabouts of Mr. Josip Perkovic and, on the other hand, immediately after that, the announcement that German Chancellor Merkel will not come to the celebration of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially you from the SDP, I'm sorry that you're almost here, what we warned you about happened. You were playing with fire and now you're burned, but it's not a problem that you burned down, the Republic of Croatia is embarrassed just in the days when it enters the European Union. And that is why, because you have subordinated the state to the interests of individuals, to the interests of a particular category of people and it is clearly recognised not only here in Croatia, it is also recognized throughout Europe. You have seriously compromised the credibility of the Republic of Croatia right at times when we become a full member of the European Union and unfortunately your perception is that this government, that the SDP protects those people who have executed the liquidations during the communist system. When we spoke to you, HDZ, opposition, media, here in Croatia, then you shook your hand, tried to accuse others. But now you have received a clear message from a country that has passed totalitarianism, which has seen both left and right totalitarianism, which has condemned both left and right totalitarianism, as left and right totalitarianism condemns the entire European Union. You, unfortunately, cannot accept the fact that during the communist system, there has been a crime, that there have been people who have killed other people for political reasons, their political inexperiences, and now because of such a category of people, we come into a situation that cancels our prime minister, Chancellor Merkel, to celebrate our entry into the European Union. So, my people, are you aware of this, instead of celebrating, instead of being proud, instead of being dignified, happy that we are becoming part of such a community of states and nations today we are having this kind of debate, we all here together have to be ashamed because the Croatian Government is trying to protect those who committed crime. We watched the minister here when he was and when he misread whether the law could be passed or not, that Brussels is not important here at all Brussels, we are important here to know that we can finally set ourselves up according to our past. We were able to condemn the Independent State of Croatia and should have condemned it. What was particularly difficult for all of us Homeland War, some of the crimes that took place back then, the Croatian state had the strength to deal with it. But it is impossible to recognize today and it is amazing that one part of Croatian politicians, that one part of the Croatian political establishment is unable to learn the truth about communism, look the truth in the eyes and say that it was a totalitarian criminal order. And now we're getting a message from Germany that says it to one, so I'm not even going to say a particularly sophisticated way because this is a clear message, the same day to increase the prize for the wanted person and cancel Chancellor Merkel's arrival. It's a very clear message. Is that what we need? Why didn't you listen to us, why did you go into such things and protect the individual at the expense of the state's interests? Here's what you've got now. But we all have now because we all represent Croatia when we go and talk to our friends from the European Union. We ask the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament to come here a representative of the Government, a prime minister or someone else to explain to us what this is about, to withdraw this law from the procedure and to save the face of the Republic of Croatia. We still have time, it must be done, it is useful for Croatia, it is also for historical truth and for victims, because of those who have been killed, because of their families, but at this point it is important that we enter the European Union with honor, dignity, with pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35502	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35503	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't care if the information is correct that the German police have raised the prize on the basis of a European arrest warrant, they say. I'm not particularly sad that Mrs. Merkel won't come to Zagreb, whether for that reason or any other reason, I don't care. It doesn't matter to me, or I'm going to ask what the Prime Minister's sentence is today at the government's session, you're going to push the fox out, you're going to drive King Kong out. I caught information a few days ago from a state official that 80 European arrest warrants had already arrived in Croatia. Only the executive authority or the bodies of the judiciary, the police probably know if it's true and who it refers to. Here we have another problem, we have a problem with the credibility of the Republic of Croatia in terms of decisions and proposals of the Executive Authority and possible decisions of the Croatian Parliament. When this was to be taken into account and these were negotiations in the Justice chapter and before the accession negotiations were concluded, seek exceptions, delays, deadlines or anything else. It's not done. And we've taken over our duties. We must carry out our obligations if we want to be credible and when we do not like those obligations. On this occasion, a sentence of all government presidents, all foreign ministers of European integration when the topic of Croatia's EU accession was present. Unfortunately, a few days before 1.7, this credibility was compromised. We could have done something different. The Croatian judiciary could also ask for the takeover of the case at the time the case was opened in Germany. It wasn't done either. I will not interfere in the public bickering of the Prime Minister with the Attorney General. That's what they're gonna do to each other. It's a shame they're running the dialogue through the media. I'm only interested in one thing, if today the government has made an official decision at its session to withdraw the law from the procedure, nothing else. This response can come orally after this speaker or by written submission by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the next few minutes. This is a question of the credibility of the legislator and Parliament's relationship with the government. That's what we've been talking about for hours, and we'll talk about it for hours and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. You will see what the provisions of both this law and the Rules of Procedure mean if the Government is now, the Croatian Parliament does not officially report on the fate of this law. That's all he has to do. No one about me and the Labourer has to come here. Just let them give the official answer. I also accept the written.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35504	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35505	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, when it was debated on the European arrest warrant, we said one key sentence and asked the key question of the Minister of Justice, which is whether we got the green light above all Berlin and Brussels to change the Law on the European Arrest Warrant here in the Croatian Parliament not because we have no sense here in Croatia, not because we have nothing to do but change the laws as someone likes but because of the credibility of the state, international and European policies of Croatia. Too much has been done, too much has been spilled for Croatia in recent years to give this kind of rain primarily to the Croatian state and our people 7 days before Croatia's entry into the EU. We do not want and support any law that will be passed by anyone's name here in the Croatian Parliament. But what is true about these suicide crimes, the communist crimes and any crime committed in any war in the Republic of Croatia should be tried by the Croatian judiciary. And where was the role of the Croatian judiciary and the Croatian State's Attorney's Office in this case it should be asked questions. And for us here in the Croatian Parliament today, first of all, it should be uncomfortable and unpleasant that a world politician and stateswoman, one who is from the international recognition of Croatia, let us not forget the role of Germany since the years of the first recognition of Croatia, our war route and the creation of the Croatian state, that one person representing the Federal Republic of Germany, one key role in Mrs Merkel's European policy due to such failures does not come to the Republic of Croatia. No one forced us to discuss the laws we passed in chapter 23 when we had an open legal path, which is the debate over the European arrest warrant from 2010 to talk or not to talk about dates. We are now forced to publicly embarrass ourselves 7 days before Croatia enters the EU. And not just that. Germany is one of the last states to ratify the treaty, which is accessible to the EU, and we only sent that or 5 days later to the Croatian Parliament procedure and we embarrassed our country first. We also embarrassed the late President Franjo Tudjman, whose idea was to create a Croatian state in the NATO Pact and then the European Community, today the EU. And today 7 days before that because of one law and because of one case regardless of which we are back at the time of the UDBA and Communism and we create slaps for the Republic of Croatia a week before our country's entry into the EU. What about who will think and what we should talk about as representatives in the Croatian Parliament can only say that it is embarrassing for the creation of the Croatian state, for Croatian defenders, for all the prime ministers of the Republic of Croatia so far and for everything we have done for Croatia, this should be a political, international shame that we responsible politicians and responsible Government of the Republic of Croatia should never have allowed. And what we're going to say now that there's a vote on that law on Friday that we have a different opinion now. The minister himself confirmed here that he did not get the green light and that there is no consultation with Brussels on this law, and we have allowed ourselves the luxury of passing this law and saying that it is not because of someone, but because of the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. I think colleagues and colleagues that the time has come if we are really ready for Croatia's entry into the EU, if we really want to act as a European people and as a community of European states, free democracy with the highest fundamental values of human rights, which is that no crime will go out of date, no crime must have protection in the Republic of Croatia or in the Croatian Parliament, and most of all these crimes of communism and refugees, including all those who have innocently died in any war for the freedom of the Republic of Croatia. I ask you and I believe that we will not allow this kind of disgrace more in the Croatian Parliament and that the President of the Croatian Government should appear here before us, and first of all send an apology to Mrs. Angela Merkel, who has done a lot for the Republic of Croatia, I can say freely and most of all European politicians so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35506	And on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35507	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues, I believe that most of you share the feeling and thinking here with which I personally am going to go to this payphone, a feeling of truly terrible discomfort and great shame because if this is exactly what the portals are writing about, what do the media say that Mrs Merkle has cancelled her arrival in Zagreb, the arrival in the Republic of Croatia, of course, immediately raises the question of whether ladies and gentlemen will cancel? Will anyone else refrain from coming to the Republic of Croatia on this most important day be here in decades of Croatian independence when we have actually achieved the last greatest historical strategic goal, which is to join the EU. I feel bad about having to repeat some facts that are notorious, feeling uncomfortable that I might be bored about it, but it should be repeated. So, the law which we regulated by the European arrest warrant came from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which we changed here in 2010, we adopted it by consensus, without then opposition of course we could not change the Constitution, in the Constitution we adopted that provision that the Republic of Croatia as the 28th member accepts this European Arresting Institute. There has been no debate that would suggest that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should take up some restrictions. Then after that, we passed the Law on a European arrest warrant. Also, I don't remember any suggestions to install any time limit. So, August 7, 2002. And as we all know, we did bring it in one consensual atmosphere. I repeat the fact that some may forget, some may not know in the Croatian public, perhaps not, all the laws, all the main provisions, all the main decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to go through the solution of the National Committee which supervised the absolute work of the executive authority in this regard, headed by today's foreign and European integration ministers. Therefore, that there was a reason to be installed and that anyone felt that such restrictions should be incorporated could be raised as a question on the National Committee. So we passed the law, nothing since 2010, absolutely nothing in that sense has changed, not one single circumstance. We all knew, I won't mention names, we all knew who and why the European arrest warrant could apply. I certainly don't think that when we talked about that law, it wasn't enough to just say something, at least about the opposition and do it. We've made an amendment on behalf of the club. That is why I think it would not be good for the government to withdraw the law because the EU, the European Commission, our colleagues in the 27 Member States, could not be sure what the Government will do in September or what the Government will do in September, but the ladies and gentlemen of the Government should accept this amendment which deletes this restriction so that we can fix this damage and finally know what the position of the Republic of Croatia is on July 1st. Not only the Government of the Republic of Croatia about the European arrest warrant. So that we agree to use, use, or submit to, that institution in the fullest sense of the word as we have negotiated. This could open Pandora's box so the government remembers to change some other laws when we become a member of the EU. Of course all this is happening in the atmosphere, which is particularly embarrassing, so the last ratification of our accession contract was in Germany on June 6th. It was not an accident, and after that 13 June, the government sent amendments to this law. So there are too many circumstances that suggest imagination. So, I propose on behalf of my club to accept this amendment that my club and I have invested on behalf of the club and completely and forever removed from the Republic of Croatia to enter with a fig in my pocket. We must do everything possible and at this point that as proud as possible and joyful as possible, we leave in that July 1st. What is happening today has indeed cast a great shadow, and I remind you that it has also happened with problems with the Ljubljanska banka which in my opinion would not have been if also the Government of the Republic of Croatia had made some decisions that had complicated the procedure a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u35508	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43830	Dear colleagues of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, continue with the plenary session, 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. According to the agreement reached, i.e. according to the agenda, it is the final draft law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs, second reading, PZ No. 373 The legislator is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, those shall be the provisions of Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Peja Grbin, Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43831	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs. After the first reading was carried out, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system as proposing the act in question considered the comments, proposals and parts thereof and, in my presentation, I will make changes to this law in relation to those which were in the first reading. First of all, Article 3 of this Law has been amended in the section concerning the powers of the Parliament in the performance of European affairs. The power of the Assembly shall also state those powers arising from the Treaty on European Union, or the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Also, in order to maintain the pace of reforms needed and after entering the European Union, in order for the Republic of Croatia not to happen what happened to some other countries that entered the European Union more unprepared and after entering the necessary reforms, it is envisaged that the Parliament should monitor the work of the Government in ensuring the sustainability of reforms and the implementation of all the obligations arising from the negotiations with the European Union and the consistent application of the acquis of the European Union. Furthermore, Article 4 states that some of the powers of the Croatian Parliament in European affairs will also be exercised by the Committee on Foreign Policy. The section concerning the European Union's common foreign and security policy on the exercise of the Parliament's powers states that this will be done by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Certain amendments have also been made to the article concerning the notification of the Assembly in such a way as to allow the European Union documents to be delivered to the Assembly in addition to ensuring EU access to the base by other means. In considering the position of the Republic of Croatia, it is said that the envisaged procedure applies not only to the Committee on European Affairs but also to the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Croatian Parliament when it determines its position at the plenary session. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 15 of the final proposal of the law states that if the Government withdraws from the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs on the proposal of the candidate of the Republic of Croatia for the institutions and bodies of the European Union, then it will be mandatory to discuss this after the Government has informed the Parliament on a reasoned basis why it has resigned. However, the biggest amendment that this law has experienced between the first and second readings concerns the provisions of Article 11, i.e. reporting to the Council on meetings of the European Council. It is envisaged that the Prime Minister, once a year, at the beginning of the first annual session of the Assembly, informs the Parliament of the meetings held by the European Council in the last year. Of course, the report will have to say not only what happened at these meetings of the European Council, but also how decisions and topics discussed will apply to the Republic of Croatia. In respect of the observations made by individual clubs, i.e. representatives and individual committees, it is provided that, before each meeting of the European Council, the Government shall, in writing, notify the Committee of the agenda and of all other accompanying documents and draft conclusions of the European Council, if they are delivered to the Government or if they exist. It is also prescribed that, after each meeting of the European Council within 15 days, a report shall be submitted to the Committee, i.e. to the Parliament, a report which will inform the Parliament of what happened at the meeting in question at the European Council and, if so, the need of the President of the Parliament on its own initiative or on a proposal from the Committee on European Affairs, may invite the Prime Minister to present the position of the Republic of Croatia for a meeting of the European Council at the meeting of the Parliament or at a meeting of the Committee. Here is how we believe that the regular notification of not only the Parliament was ensured, but also the Croatian public about how the Government, or the Prime Minister, acted on the European Council and what effect this has on the Republic of Croatia. In other provisions, the law remains unchanged, and we believe that through such provisions of the law, a good balance has been reached through such a law between the supervision of this House of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it operates in the EU institutions and the possibility that the Government will comply at certain times with the need for compromise in European affairs while fully respecting the provision of Article 144. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43832	Thank you, Your Honor. Do the working bodies, presidents of the working bodies, committees want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and the Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43833	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. It is a matter of relations between the government and the parliament that, in my opinion, should be the name of this law, not the question of the relationship between the government and the parliament. Because as far as I know our Constitution in any part of the Constitution, it is not said that the Government and the Parliament cooperate, but the Parliament has its responsibilities, the Government has its responsibilities and there are certain relations in these responsibilities that are binding both on the Government and binding on the Parliament. And in my opinion, it would be better if the name of this law was changed to the motion itself and suggested that it be called the Law of Relations between the Government and the Parliament. Why am I saying that? Not because names are crucial to what they will be in reality or what people will do in relationships with each other, although they can, of course, and usually are important rather than because of the following facts. In a few days, we will become a full member of the EU and, in this respect, assume responsibility as members towards our citizens and other EU members. We will enter situations where there are new realities for us who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also new realities for EU citizens. Realities that are much more demanding than they were at the beginning of our EU accession, realities that are much more demanding than they were in the EU transformation process. The EU faces a series of difficulties as we face a number of difficulties. He faces a series of challenges, as we face a number of challenges. One of the EU's challenges, one of Croatia's challenges is parliamentaryism and the role of parliaments. One of the places of crisis, I think of the political crisis within the EU as a kind of lack of parliamentary supervision, is a kind of lack of Parliament's strength in European affairs and in the EU itself, as it is, of course, crucial importance for us, which national parliaments will have in European affairs in relation to the government, as is also crucial to us, what role the national parliament will play in relation to other national parliaments in the EU. So, apart from the fact that there are elements of the fiscal crisis, other than that there are elements, clear elements of the social crisis, except that there are clear elements of the growing inequality between Member States for a long time, and lately clearly discussed within the relevant, intellectual, political circles of the Member States of the Union and the Union itself, and this is the lack of the present type of parliamentaryism when it comes to Parliament's roles when it comes to the EU and the role of national parliaments when it comes to the EU. The lack of confidence of EU citizens as well as the lack of trust of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the institutions of the Union or an increasing distance is not only due to the economic crisis, but also the consequence of the fact that most decisions have been made far from the eyes, far from the ears of those who are EU citizens. Or if those eyes and ears had the opportunity to hear and see, then they saw later after decisions had been made or after those decisions had already been made. The Republic of Croatia as a country with centuries of experience in life in complex state communities of different kinds has no doubt to develop a special sensitivity for the role of its national parliament in relation to its own government. There is no doubt that there is a need to develop a special sensitivity at the role of Parliament, the European Parliament, in relation to other EU institutions. And in this respect, for us, the debate on this law is not routine as is the impression that it rarely occurs, except on committees such as the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which is a colleague of the Grbin, such as the Committee on European Integration or the Committee on Foreign Policy, or some other committees that I haven't had the opportunity to participate in, but I suppose they lead an equally lively debate, but that kind of debate that should be common to this kind of matter unfortunately we haven't had. We had a brief discussion, interested public actors, and of course we had a brief, intense, debate within our parliamentary committees. This debate, thanks to the skills of those who participated in it, thanks to their willingness to dialogue and listen, has received some results. What the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure said that several key articles of the Bill on the Relations between the Government and the Parliament were amended after several meetings of the parent committees are a clear sign that there is a awareness that the position of the national Parliament in relation to the Government must not be regulated in such a way as to continue the practice so far. And so far practice has been about as practice as before modern times when nobles from European space would be in individual castles on the basis of interest and decide what and how they would be in each room or in the whole space. That kind of reduced democracy has no doubt to be changed. It needs to be changed first and foremost if we want it to change on the European agenda, we need to change it on the agenda of our Parliament's relationship with our government. And so much is the acceptance of amendments to Article 4(1) of the Law on the fact that the Committee on European Affairs on Foreign Policy, which is of course still and above all in the powers of national policies, plays an important and equal role both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in matters concerning common foreign and security policies and common and defence policies, the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy act synergyly and act in such a way as to make possible better views and interests both of the EU's common position. It is also particularly important, certainly more important than this first one, but I quote in the order of articles in the draft law, is Article 9, Article 10(2), as regards the report by the Council of the EU Council of Meetings, which, as my colleague Grbin has already announced here, accepts that ministers who participate in the work of the EU Council report from these meetings and report on the preparations they have carried out and on the positions to be represented before the meetings of the EU Council itself. This seems particularly important to us at the SDSS Club, and it seems particularly important that Parliament would not be in a position to inform a large part of what belongs to future business and as regards the future interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and related to decisions within the Council of the EU that the representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be subsequently notified or not be notified in due time or fully and particularly important, of course, before those decisions are taken. Untrusted that Parliament could limit efficiency or that Parliament could limit the possibility of consent is, of course, reasonable under the assumption that people sitting in Parliament will not adequately recognise what the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are. But we should simply change that logic because Parliament, regardless of its weaknesses, is here because it represents the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The third article, which is particularly important that it has been amended and that it has been completed after the discussions held on committees, is, above all, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, Article 11 which accepts the addition of this article and amends the first paragraph of that article, which is to define how the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report to the Parliament on the meetings of the European Council. In the first proposal, it was accepted that it would only be about some, but as far as I understand after the debate, it will be done on all meetings of the European Council. This seems particularly important to us because, regardless of the trust that the Prime Minister or Prime Minister may have from Parliament and the citizens, they are willing to assess what these are and what topics Parliament should be reporting, which should not be reported simply is not a good relationship with Parliament. Parliament should, in this context, be able to assess what is relevant, which is not relevant by taking a position through the debate, by taking a position on how much it will be engaged in the debate as it will not be engaged in the debate. But until then, colleagues and colleagues, until one day there is no other home in the EU that will represent members, until then, and afterwards, the role of national parliaments must be particularly special in such positions as the issue of reporting from European Council meetings not only unequivocal but very clear, and must be special when they are in the context of small states such as Croatia, they must be extremely strong. Small countries do not have the power of political action within the EU institutions and within the entire European political space that large countries have. And what they have in their hands is, of course, the strength of their national parliaments is the art and skill of their representatives within the EU. And if we're going to deprive one of these elements then of course we can deprive ourselves of the elements of the presumption of our own equality in the decision-making system. And finally, Article 15. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. are also of particular importance for two things. First because of the role of the national parliament in proposing candidates for the EU institutions and bodies and secondly, because of the credibility of the candidates themselves and the candidates themselves. If these candidates and candidates pass at least two filters, the assumption is that filtering will bring better results, perhaps more complex but better than if only one filter passes. This one filter can, of course, be in many ways of quality so that it can guarantee good decisions, but this, as we know, depends on election results. For this reason, democracy, or democratic parliamentaryism, requires the role of parliament to be particularly important here. My colleagues and colleagues, the SDSS club will continue to insist on the important role of the national parliament and since it is through the debate Since through the debate a large part of the proposals that were coming have been accepted we will support this proposal to amend the law, and we would be happy if his title were as I said at the outset. [[Intruder: Bring an end to the esteemed MP.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43834	Thank you very much. Replications have been reported to your presentation. The first replica and respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43835	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's why I owe you one brief explanation for your cooperation. Well, first of all, because of what it says in Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which speaks of the obligation to cooperate with certain parts of the government or specifically on cooperation between the legislative and executive authorities. However, this law covers many powers of the Parliament and ways they will end. So this isn't just a law concerning the oversight of the Parliament's work on government. This law encourages this very co-operation between Parliament and the Government so that our bodies, in the new circumstances, can be much better managed, because I think that cooperation is what we need first and that was why we proposed that name. And another little replica, here's what you said about reports from the European Council, so here's just to be perfectly clear, before every council comes to the government's materials, so the government has to deliver them to the Parliament. Unfortunately, it will sometimes be a week, two or three before the European Council, and sometimes these materials will arrive only a few hours before the European Council because it is a dynamic that these materials are delivered by the EU. However, after each European Council, the Government will have to submit a report on what happened on that council and on the Committee, depending on the nature of these decisions taken on the European Council, it will be mandatory to discuss this. Therefore, the public and the Parliament will know very well what happened on the European Council, what has happened and what decisions have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43836	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43837	Your Honor, Mr. President. I must say, I fully agree with everything that's a respected representative of the Professor. Pupović said except that, in fact, I was once moved to replication by his sentence, which is that these changes made to them are saying that there is awareness of the importance of Parliament. I unfortunately read this final proposal of the Co-operation Act, and here I agree with Prof. The public that it should be about the relations of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot read it, but it seems to me that this is about the government's domination of Parliament and the narrowing down of parliamentary democracy, especially when it comes to relations with the EU. Anything else that's a respected professor. The bud said I could sign that moment, but unfortunately it's not reflected in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43838	Thank you too, Vice President of the Parliament. There is a third replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43839	Reverend Pupovac, here's what I can do to join my colleague Reiner and say that I agree with most of what you said. In fact, at the very end of your speech, you said that Parliament's role must be not only unequivocal but must be clear and strong. I agree with my colleague Reiner here, but this law is just saying the opposite. Parliament's role is weak. You have touched one of the most important issues that should be addressed not only in Croatia but also in Europe. The key to the development of democracy or, in fact, the achievement of democracy, which is pursued by neoliberal capitalism is the role of Parliament. So we're at a turning point. More and more the European Parliament, national parliaments are weak. The euro-parliament relationship to other European bodies is well known. At one point you realized that decisions were made far from the eyes of the public, and that's true. They are made far from the public's eyes in Croatia and this Parliament does not decide, it only confirms. As stated in Article 3. Parliament is turning into an observer. Parliament, the parliament monitors, monitors, participates, participates, participates, monitors, does not decide. So the role of Parliament and this Law as well as the intensities that are in action in Europe are becoming increasingly weak and that is what we need to resist.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43840	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43841	So I would also like to thank my colleague Grbina for his explanation of certain, additions of certain articles, colleagues of Reiner and colleagues of Vuksic for what they said. One thing I'd like to say, I think this bill has found a measure, it's not as it could be, as it exists in Finland compared to the government and parliament, but it's not as it is in Italy. Therefore, he found some measure, whether the measure could be further on the side of Parliament, could. That it should be, it should be. And I advocate that evolution be done. But one way that evolution can be done is by colleagues and colleagues to strengthen our Parliament's capacity for European affairs. And this capacity for European affairs is unfortunately not enough yet. And that is the role of both the President and the Presidency of this House. And the chairman of the Committee of this Parliament to strengthen the capacity of working bodies that will be able to carry out European affairs. So that we do not have only one committee to decide on European issues. To be a super committee like the European Affairs Committee. But let's say the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Education and Science and other committees are secondary to that whole story. So that we do not only have a problem with the relationship between the Government and the Parliament, but we have a problem with the relationship within Parliament itself that the parent bodies for certain matters are not able to monitor the issues that need to be monitored. And we're going to have a committee that, for objective reasons, won't be able to do it on its own. So I see here one of the moments where we can strengthen the role of the national Parliament. And I now believe that after this debate and after the position it has and which I know as well as the President of Parliament himself, that we will be looking for ways to strengthen Parliament's role here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43842	Thank you very much. I'm asking for one deal. We'd have a lunch break for the usual, but we're planning to do 10 agendas today. So it'll take a little longer. Thank you very much for your cooperation. And now I call on the Club of Independent Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative of Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43843	Your Honor, Mr. President, the government's representatives, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Which is different in this Law than in practice so far. In fact, the practice did not exist because everything is new in relation to the Law in the first reading. So, Article 1: "This Law regulates the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs and powers of the Croatian Parliament in European affairs in accordance with the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.". And now what is crucial here, in this legal text, this is Article 3 where it is said that the Council monitors, oversees the work of the Government in the institutions of the European Union, examines the documents of the European Union, monitors respect for the principle of subsidiarity, then decides to amend the override clause, and now I don't list everything else. Who's the accent on here? The emphasis on this Committee is just mentioned on European affairs. That is, when the foreign and security policy is discussed, the Committee on Foreign Policy will be responsible. The Committees shall consider the European Union programmes. We see the government delivering all European Union documents to the Parliament. And here I agree with Mr. Pupovac that only one committee is difficult, even if it is also for European integration it can monitor all that activity that will be or that is ahead of the work of the Committee itself. The Committee is the one to consider these documents of the European Union, and I think that, as the law is drawn up, it is apostrophe of the position of the committee as a single working body of the Parliament, and I think that this is a good thing. The fact is that the Croatian Parliament is significantly different from other European parliaments. What's the point, that's the scope of this House's work. At the annual level, we "pass" conditionally or adopt about 500 acts of what I dare say over 300 laws. A dozen Western European parliaments at the annual level do not have the activity of a Croatian Parliament. You're coming into a situation that simply this intensity of work almost no one can follow, that no one can read, let alone engage in the metrics I would say to each of these legal texts. Nowhere on the planet, except perhaps in Croatia you have no representative who can work with or that there is one person you could simply contact. Every captain, even at least a municipality of 400 or 500 inhabitants, has one of their own. Unfortunately, the MPs played the last hole in the game, and that's certainly not good. But why am I saying that? The weaker the Parliament, the stronger the government and vice versa. And then how it is possible to change the simple position of parliament that some MPs were just talking about. I only think one way, by changing the electoral system. You see, in this country, everyone is that we choose the mayors directly, that we choose the mayors directly, the mayors, the president of the state, so why not pick the representatives directly. There in '92. One half of the MPs of this House were elected directly, the other half from the list. '95. It seems to me that `was elected directly, other meanings from the list, and I am convinced that if such a modulation of elections were to be approached to strengthen parliament, to strengthen parliament and to strongly absorb independence I would say parliament in relation to any structure of the executive authority. Article 7 here is said that the Committee is authorised to draw conclusions requiring the Government to carry out an impact assessment procedure for a European Union document under the Work Programme in accordance with the Impact Assessment Act, Regulations, means the National Journal of 90/2011. So once again, the Committee orders the Government to carry out an impact assessment procedure for the European Union documents. So the accent is here at the Parliament. Article 9 states that the Parliament is discussing proposals for amendments to and supplementing the basic Treaties of the European Union and in the positions of the Republic of Croatia on amendments and additions to the basic Treaties of the European Union delivered to the Parliament by the Government. Article 11, which is certainly extremely important, is different from that of Article 11 of the first reading, firstly that the Prime Minister submits a report to the Parliament once a year, and paragraph 5 of Article 11 states that the reports and observations of the Republic of Croatia referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article shall be held. So we will have the opportunity to conduct the debate in this assembly, either at the stand-up or after the Prime Minister has stepped up. I think it's the essence of this legislative proposal, that it's extremely important, that it's most commendable and it's an additional strengthening of the role of the Parliament and it's respecting I would say the positions of the constitutional here at home. Article 15(1) states that the Government shall submit to the Parliament a report on the candidate of the Republic of Croatia for the European Commission, for the Court, for the General Court, the Court of Auditors, the Administrative Council of the European Investment Bank and, by my court, the Assembly shall not be marginalised here, the Assembly shall be strengthened and, therefore, this Assembly shall be supported. Finally, page 9, it is said that the law addresses the issues of Parliament's powers in the exercise of European affairs, the exercise of Parliament's powers, the notification of European affairs to the Parliament and that I do not list everything further. I think we've received a compromise bill, that we've even received a bill when it comes to relations between the government and the Parliament on European affairs above European standards, and I don't think this law should have any opponents in these benches because the Parliament has neither been neglected nor marginalized, nor has it been bypassed. And I agree that perhaps with the Committee on European Integration, there should be some way to include a few other committees that could simply monitor the scope of all those acts that will be ahead of the members of the Committee on European Policy or for European integration. All in all, we will support this Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43844	Thank you very much. It's the replicas. The first replica and respected vice president of Zeljko Reiner's home.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43845	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Representative, it was clear to me, of course, that you would support this report, but I must respond to your claim that with it, or suggestion, I must react to your claim that the Parliament is not marginalized and bypassed. It is, it is, it is, and it is marginalized, and how it is actually made sloppy and fast. Just one language thing. The President of the Government shall, within 15 days of the meeting, submit a written report to the Parliament on the meetings held. Well, I guess about that meeting of the European Council, then on. Therefore, there is a series of gaps in it less important, and much more important is that, unfortunately, the Assembly is also marginalized and well bypassed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43846	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43847	My view is exactly the opposite, that by virtue of this law in the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs, the Parliament is not marginalised in any way. However, when we had our first reading, I was talking about the need to open a parliamentary debate after the Prime Minister's report was submitted. That one moment is in this law today, and I absolutely welcome it. However, I am convinced that the marginalisation of the parliament is also conditioned by the election model. If the MPs were to be elected directly as we elect the mayors, the mayors, the president of the state, the mayors, etc. I assure you that above this Parliament would indeed be under quotes I am dear to us God and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, party leadership would be important, would lose, would lose influence on MPs, and MPs would get so much autonomy that today, unfortunately, many of us sitting here simply don't have or have some.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43848	New replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43849	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Cain and I have noticed this claim of yours where you said it would be good for MPs to choose directly. And in that part, I see one problem, and I see a problem for you. I don't think you'd be sitting here in this House, but that's not it. But second thing, you're saying how strong the MPs would be, and at the same time you say that the representative of your words I'll serve, that the MP is the last hole on the play and that Parliament is not marginalized. I can't connect it at all. I don't think you're right, but I agree with you in that part where you said that in every municipality of ours, no matter how small the system works. Because every one of these elected chiefs has to respond daily to his locals, to his community, to explain things to him how things work, which channel is not buried, etc. It's the way it communicates. That is why this is a good recommendation for relations between both the Government and the Parliament, and not in a way that we do not care for you. That reminds me of that song that was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43850	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43851	So don't worry about me! I'm less important, you're important. See, you're important. Here's your colleagues. Here I am fighting for you to be directly elected and thus simply strengthen the influence of this Parliament, and don't worry about me, don't worry about me. You're past it!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43852	We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43853	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate, I would like, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, to declare support for the bill, and above all, because of what is most important in this law, which is to regulate relations between the executive and the legislative authorities on an extremely important set of issues, which is European affairs and, of course, because most of our remarks and proposals, which is why most of them, the promoter has reviewed and respected. The time has come for us in the Croatian Parliament to become aware of the fact that European affairs cease to be a dominant topic of foreign policy and become a dominant issue of the internal and political affairs of the Republic of Croatia. The key words are certainly cooperation and participation, participation because on Monday, the Republic of Croatia becomes the 28th full member of the EU, which also assumes a whole series of commitments belonging to it as an integral part of the EU, as a member, as participants in the EU's negotiation and decision-making process. We need to get used to that we are no longer a candidate country that adapts our system, procedures, standards to what has been offered as a European acquis, and that remains behind us, remains behind us in the part where we have made adjustments to qualify for membership, but remains ahead of us because it is a permanent process to which we witness almost daily because the European acquis as an almost living organism is constantly changing. But unlike this, until now, where we have watched these changes since Monday, we must assume our share of responsibility to create and implement these changes and participate. The key is cooperation, among other things, and because European policies are not necessarily defined as the policies of the majority, but also as specific policies in which minorities are extremely important regardless of which minority they are concerned. Co-operation and because, after the Lisbon Treaty, parliaments, regardless of the matter, came in a different position to the European or national ones than they had before, and must assume their part and responsibilities as well as their jobs in the legislative space. However, this is not why it is necessary to start chasing concepts and to seek to make Parliament take over as executive authority. It is not good for parliamentarianism to see a line of distinction between the responsibility of the executive and the legislative authority deleted or more difficult to see. It is an interest in the development of parliamentaryism that this line remains clear and firm and that Parliament does not take over in European affairs the part of the burden involved in the implementation and enforcement of European policies either. That is, it must be the role of the government. As regards the HNS, since this is the first act of this kind, so the first legal document that defines the relations between the Government and the Parliament in European affairs in the context of EU membership is that we hold that the model implemented in this legal text is good, that it is a medium model that does not at all marginalise the role of Parliament and does not, on the other hand, Majorise the role of the executive authority in European affairs but creates a balance between the need to highlight the responsibility for the management and implementation of concrete European policies and to underline the supervisory role of the legislative body that must have the power and mechanisms to correct certain policies, i.e. to participate in their adoption at parliamentary level. In this sense, the HNS Club, I repeat, will support this proposal, but we have a period ahead of us where we are going to try this model and no one is stopping us from drawing the line in a year and seeing what the experiences are. First of all, the work of the new committee in the Assembly, on the other hand, of the way the Government will report to the Parliament on what is happening at the meetings of the European Council in other European structures of the Executive Authority and how Croatia is modelling, leads its policy and that in a year we are already more experienced in this regard so that we can propose if some changes are needed. Changes that will first and foremost strengthen the functionality of the new committee that we are about to establish, the functionality of Parliament as bodies of the legislative authority that bear a great weight of the total burden in this business. Therefore, consideration and implementation, i.e. the creation of European policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43854	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43855	Thank you, Mr. President. You said that European affairs have become our internal affairs, which is clear in itself, and that is why Croatia is becoming part of the European People's Community, and that is why it is crucial not to continue and in these affairs the policy of which the Croatian Parliament is, in fact, the observer of events in Croatia's internal policy, and now it will become this law both in European affairs and in European politics. Thanks to party discipline and so far, the Croatian Parliament has rarely made real essential decisions. Decisions were made across the road, over the square. This is not good and we have concluded many times here that this is not good, now this is the same principle of government domination in decision-making we are absolutely transferring everything to the jobs we are going to deal with at European level. You're saying you need to draw a clear line of decision-making and responsibility. That's right! The line should also be clearly drawn on that line, i.e. above that line, by the Croatian Parliament who should finally make all important decisions in this country. See how the public sees us and how much they hold us as Parliament responsible for the situation in Croatia, so you will put that line in a better place than this law provides.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43856	Replicate response, Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43857	Col. Vuljanić's partytocracy as a disease of democratic societies is not something that has existed since yesterday, and it is not something that we who have been dealing with politics in liberal and centrist parties have resisted for a long time. It's actually a pain that no political party in the Republic of Croatia has been deprived of. But, as you know, both political parties and politics make up people. It's not something virtual outside of ourselves, and it's up to us to suppress the Partocratic model not only with good suggestions but also with our own behavior. The reputation and strength of this Parliament does not lie in procedures, but lies in concrete behaviour and action as representatives. Yes, it is necessary to strengthen the role of the Croatian Parliament in a way that we act more responsibly, more busy, more clearly and earn our salary from here. But in this business, strengthening parliamentaryism, unlike so far, we will have another ally in the future, I hope, and that is precisely what you selected representatives in the EU Parliament have not had so far. Of the 1.7 you become our allies in this business as far as I understand it and I hope that together we will help change that picture for the better. So far, we have had observers from now on, we have full representatives in the EU Parliament, and I hope that those of you who sit there Monday will perceive you as busy, responsible people who are not afraid of their parties but are afraid of their voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43858	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43859	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Beus Richembergh said about this law that this was the first act to regulate government and parliament's relations in European affairs. Namely, the first act that regulated the government and parliament's relationship in European affairs was the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 2010, more precisely the article and more precisely the 144th more precisely, which clearly indicated the supervision of the Croatian Parliament over the work of the Government and the steps of the Government in European affairs or related to European affairs. So this law actually springs from the amended Constitution in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43860	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43861	Dear fellow Kosor, of course, you're absolutely right, but you've understood the meaning of what I said, so it's not just a form that we're talking about a new situation that we've been going into since Monday of 1.7. So far, only they can really define and by the Constitution of certain obligations and mutual obligations in cooperation, but it becomes something that is our obligation even above what is called the Croatian Constitution or what we can interpret by the provisions of certain acts, regardless of whether they were brought by the Croatian Parliament. It is an obligation, a human obligation to sit where we are and participate, and that we do this job in the best possible way by disseminating obligations, responsibilities and that this job is for us who have been chosen and for those we have chosen to sit in our own has in government, to run the state in the best possible way. Anyway, thanks for the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43862	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43863	Dear fellow Beus, in principle, I agree with many of the things you said in your debate. Especially with the fact that it is an interest not to cross the line between the executive and the legislative authority. However, this line has been crossed long ago in this Croatian Assembly. The parliament has long been marginalized, and you know as well as yourself, here you do not make decisions, here you get decisions made as your colleague Vuljanic said across the street just confirming. The people actually feel great about the role of the Croatian Parliament and it is estimated that the role is miserable and we cannot deceive the people. Of course we are parliamentary representatives of this, and the first to bear the blame are representatives of the majority who allow the Parliament to be marginalized and that it is above the Parliament not the people but the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I agree with you that power does not lie in procedures, that is correct. Power lies in influence, power is actually real political power, and these real political powers in this institution are gone. And what he used to say to his colleague Pupovac, that's the point. We here today well said we can't talk part-time and what I fully agree with, we can change it, we'll have a year's work experience and after a year we'll see how the government treated Parliament. However, what is happening in the EU in European countries, what is happening in Croatia, warns us that we need to see all those shortcomings in the past in time and that in the future they will only be multipled.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43864	The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43865	I don't really have the content for controversy with you, colleague Vuksic. I just want to say one heels. There is an EU member whose parliament has drawn lines through which representatives of the executive authority cannot even set foot, but believe the role of parliament in that country influencing policy-making is far below the influence of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43866	New Replic and Honorable Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43867	Your Honor, Mr. President. So the respected representative Beus mentioned that there is a line of distinction between the government and Parliament and that it is not good for parliamentaryism if it is crossed. In some ways I can agree, however, only somewhat because it is not a matter of crossing the line. The question is, where is this line set and do we know where it's set? We are now setting up this very line with this law, and that this cannot endanger parliamentaryism, if Parliament were to lead in business with regard to the European Union is saying exactly what the president of Croatia's leading party has advocated and this is the Nordic path. Nordic countries, as you well know, have a very different approach than these laws determine. They have access to which the Committee of Parliament for European Affairs is in charge, meets at least once a week, rarely and twice a week, very quickly reacts to everything that is happening in the European Parliament. European Affairs Ministers, or foreign affairs, come to each meeting, report and receive a mandate from parliament, from the parliamentary committee to accept, not accept, express, represent or something like that. So that road is something I personally stand for, and this is very far from it. And that path certainly did not endanger parliamentaryism in the Nordic countries, nor in the Baltic countries where they are doing so. This time I fear that it will compromise parliamentaryism because in this path parliament is quite less important than the government that continues to lead everything so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43868	The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43869	We in the Republic of Croatia have the custom to convince ourselves that we have the millennium history of parliamentaryism. Since the day of the Five Crips in Kosovo, the Croatian Parliament, or its prominent members, stabbed their ruler with knives because he asked them to go to the Cross War. It's a very, very, very difficult subject. We are not in that position to have high parliamentary standards that we have inherited, so now someone is biting or breaking them. No, I would like, in the 23rd year of this Croatian new democratic parliamentaryism in which the party members and representatives, your party colleague Reiner, have been Parliament's presidents for 17 years. If we had reached the standard we would have defended today. No, unfortunately we didn't. That standard wasn't high enough. And now it's a lot harder to build on. But let's just say it's a joint job. I don't want us to do this job with criticism. I want to do it with a pawn. That we come more often to committee meetings, to participate more in fulfilling our obligations, to speak more honestly, more openly, and more often. That we're less of a replicater and we're more of a talker of our own attitudes and we're discussing topics. The role of Parliament will then be strong and the representatives of the government sitting in these benches will open both ears to hear what is being told here. And they won't care what they think here and how attitudes are formulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43870	Thank you, too. My colleague Pupovac has raised his reply to your reply but it is not possible according to the Rules of Procedure, so we will continue to discuss the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Nikola Vuljanic are next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43871	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, the reference to the sentence that we should not specifically discuss the procedure but the essence. No matter what the parties think and say, the procedure is democracy. The procedure is not a sign of democracy, the process is the essence of democracy. The procedures are the rules of the game we are agreeing, which we adopt and then they all stick together and apply to everything equally, that is, democracy. Therefore, the debate on the procedure is a debate on democracy. This is the Law which outlines the role of the Government and Parliament in this important segment of the political life of the Republic of Croatia, so in European affairs, their interrelationship and speeches and explicits and implications about the development of this relationship. The direction is clear. The elements of the office system and the further marginalisation of parliament in political life are being introduced, in decision-making, in responsibility for the decision-making, so on the marginalisation of parliament. Parliament declared this a chicken, a storybook, a variety of determined, determined politicians in Croatia. This opinion and such an image were embellished in public and, not because of our reputation, influence and the like, but because of the fact that the political life and development of the Republic of Croatia could move where we imagined it, plotted it and changed that picture. You will say that the European Parliament is also the place where politicians are sent who want to get rid of themselves in their countries, so it is also a talk room that does not have a lot of influence on what is happening in Europe and you will not make a big mistake. It's one part like that. What I have seen in a year of observation in the European Parliament is that this same Parliament is trying, with the support of a commission that is, let's say, the executive body of that Parliament, the Government, to change that role. Change that role and put as much as possible and when it is possible to act on Parliament. We don't do that here. For example, Article 3 of the last paragraph states that one of the tasks of the Parliament in carrying out these tasks is to monitor the work of the Government in insurance, etc., and to ensure consistent application of the right of acquisition of the European Union. Follow them and that's the point. Follow, follow, so when the monitoring ends, the government goes its own way, Parliament stays in place. Parliament does not influence this, Parliament only follows. Articles 7 and 8 discuss the positions with which the Republic of Croatia will perform in the Council of Europe and other European bodies. The definition that sounds so purely administratively professional is that the position of the Republic of Croatia is presented by the Government's representative before the parliamentary committee. What the Government's representative stands before the parliamentary committee is not the views of the Republic of Croatia, these are the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the position of the Republic of Croatia should be what came out of the debate in our parliamentary committee, i.e. in the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. If the views of the Republic of Croatia are what the Government is proposing, and this Parliament is watching, monitoring, assessing and similar, then it is perfectly clear who in this country is making definitive decisions on the further movement and development of Croatian society. Only the government. Nowhere, and I did so last time in the first debate, I noticed the same thing, nowhere decided in this law, and it should be written that if there is a disagreement between what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing, so the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the position of Parliament, that the Government is obliged to listen to Parliament's views and to come to Brussels, or Luxembourg, Strasbourg, where it already goes with a mandatory mandate, so with the mandate to respect the views taken by this Parliament. The government will listen, listen, consider, see, and nowhere does it say that it must obey these conclusions. It is a similar situation in Article 15 when it comes to the election of officials in the working bodies of the European Union, the government comes with its proposal, the parliamentary committee or Parliament may agree with this proposal and then the situation is clear. If the government disagrees, it will consider the comments and make a written note of what he thinks about these remarks and act according to his own course, of course, to act according to his own. Parliament's role is reduced to the role of observers. That's exactly what I had in the European Parliament, so I could observe, I could speak, I could see, I could suggest, but when it was decided, then some other guys decided. The Croatian Parliament should not be brought into that position because in the extreme instance it is not important, or it is not so important who can talk about the subject and what they will say about it, it is important who makes the decisions. If these decisions are made outside this building then there is no parliamentary democracy in Croatia, of course. This process and this balance of decision-making is a balance of power, of course, and it is based always and everywhere on compromise. However, in order to come to a compromise, you must have two opposing sides. This is what is happening in the European Parliament, and so is the process, the process of accepting compromise. So you have to have two sides with different views. Under this law, the Croatian government will be very happy to agree. There are no sides, these are the views of the Croatian government, and if Parliament has the same views of the Croatian government, then there is no need for compromise. The division of authorities in executive and legislative matters is based precisely on the idea that the legislative authority will in some way be able to correct and change the position of the executive authority and that this executive authority is implementing what the legislative authority has agreed. Of course, all this is an empty story if the Croatian Parliament and its parliamentary committee do not have the opportunity to prepare professionally for the topics to be discussed. The amount of information to come to this Parliament, that is, in this parliamentary committee, is enormous. It is perfectly impossible what counterpart Richembergh says, it is perfectly impossible for MPs to discuss 20, 30 different topics of which none of them are subject to their profession unless they have the professional support to prepare it for them. In parliaments around the world, this professional support exists, there are professional services, there are assistants who help MPs, and people can then competently talk about the profession they haven't studied, that's what they do. This, of course, exists in the European Parliament, does not exist with us. If these members of our Committee on European Affairs are going to meet once a week or once every two weeks and get a bunch of paper that's not much lower than me, I'm not tall, but that pile is still pretty high. Some kind of serious and systematic debate cannot be expected. So this is something that neither the Croatian Parliament nor the Croatian Government took care of by accident, but out of the belief that it is good for things to happen like this. So, to decide in the Government, in the government's professional services and to raise a hand here or plenary session or committee already in line with the political majority and make a decision that someone else has agreed on. What the ruling party is proposing now is currently in the interest of the ruling party and the government chosen by the ruling party. However, regulations should be made in mind, having in mind a situation that is reversed from today. How you'll feel when you're in opposition, and that's how some other government is going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43872	Thank you, Your Honor. Replications have been reported to your presentation. It is the first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43873	Dear counterpart Vuljanic, you said the position of the Republic of Croatia could be brought by the Parliament, not by the government. The government implements in principle what the Parliament determines. That's how it's supposed to be, but you know it's not like that. Before the decisions were made in Vis, then at the time of Franjo Tudjman in Pantovac, after Pantovac from the other side of Mark’s square. But real decisions are made at home between the governors, prime ministers, Todorovic, Tedeschi. And as it says in this law, the Parliament is just an escort, an observer, and the government is the center of everything. Earlier, a colleague said we shouldn't be here, we shouldn't actually be in the Assembly, we shouldn't be replicating it, we should be talking about the essence. Then the naive thoughts of the government will listen to us. However, we know well that it comes to the House with already formed opinions and decisions, and that is why MPs are disturbed by the height of how we beat ourselves in the House of Commons only vasals raise their hands, and even close their eyes when they say what they don't believe in themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43874	Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43875	Thank you. The fact is, in my first reading of this law, I have proposed that the proposer did not adopt that the law should be called the Law on the Law on the Law on the Arrangement of Relations between the Government and Parliament. The fact is that the role of the Parliament is marginalized not only by this law, but especially by the Rules of Procedure that we will discuss later. But also the fact that the key decisions that are seen from the content of the decisions are made elsewhere and for the benefit of some quite other guys. It may be happening in the world, but if we don't rebel against it, who will. The street?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43876	Thank you very much. Second replica and respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43877	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Vuljanic, I think you have very well recognised both the intentions and the way the ruling party writes this law and the changes that occurred between the two readings seem to have further violated the balance that exists between the Parliament and the Government. I'll talk more about it during my presentation and on behalf of the club. But now one thing that is extremely important and from which it is visible what will happen in relations between the Government and the Parliament. You have an article 8 that says the Committee is considering EU documents and the views of the Republic of Croatia on EU documents in accordance with this law and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The same Committee on EU documents and the views of the Republic of Croatia is having a debate and can draw conclusions on the position of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of which the Government operates in the EU institutions. So that's good. But then you have a new article 10th paragraph, which was not, says the Government is obliged to inform the Parliament if it deviates from the conclusion of Article 8 of this Act. What's the consequence? She's gone. So, we're playing SDP's dear colleagues, making a big story about this law. We talked about even raising Parliament's integrity through it, strengthening Parliament's integrity. Now that it's read carefully, and I'm really saying this in good faith, when it's carefully read, you can see that between the first and second readings, we've further violated the balance in Parliament's and government's relations in favor of the government, and that's a great shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43878	Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43879	Thank you. The fact of your colleague Jandrokovic, you have well noticed that in many places in the law there is a situation in which disagreements may arise between the Parliament and the Government. I wrote all those places on paper to this law and then what? Then nothing! Then nothing, the government brought its own, not its views under this law, the views of the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament said we disagreed with those views, the government said well you disagreed, went to the Council, represented what she thought and reported, you know we were still representing what we think, not what you told us. I mean, it's actually unworthy of grown men.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43880	New replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43881	Thank you very much. In your presentation, you discussed the weak role of Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, and of course you noticed very well about the different trend in the European Parliament, so to strengthen and seek to strengthen Parliament's position, the European Parliament. And here I also want to point out in this replica to a place that seems particularly important to me where we ourselves in the Croatian Parliament decide on our fate in this process. Therefore, regarding an extremely important role, which is to take part in the process of proposing candidates for the EU institutions and bodies, so in Article 15, where it is said about proposing candidates and the Croatian Parliament may also express its opinion and if the Government does not accept the opinion of the Committee in that case of appointments, with an explanation written by the Parliament that then conducts the debate. I also wrote that one then? Namely, every debate in the Croatian Parliament must end with what? Conclusions. What if these conclusions, who's going to propose them, what if these conclusions are completely contrary to the government's position and then I'm writing and asking the question again and then what? Unfortunately, the answer is nothing. That's the problem we have to shake up by the end of this debate. We cannot agree, for example, that we ourselves have a provision in this law that as a Parliament, we will lead a debate that will not end with anything. Then what are we going to do as agents? Send your opinions to the European Parliament? Please state there in the European Parliament what we have concluded here or what we have discussed? So, I suggest we sit down really seriously again and do it for the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43882	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43883	Thank you. Yeah, it's true. And I wrote down something in that place, what then, but then what? Nothing! The parliament will discuss, the parliament will draw conclusions, and the proposal will go to the European bodies as the government wills. Well, good. Knowing that we are realistic, knowing the situation in the Croatian Parliament, knowing how party discipline works, knowing how most functions, this conclusion will be consistent with the government's opinion every time and without exception. Which is not good! It's just not good, and no one can convince me that most of the fact that she raised a number of hands is right. It's not!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43884	New replica and respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43885	The honourable representative Vuljanic rightly says that the role of Parliament should be strengthened, but I don't think it is enough just to strengthen Parliament's role in relation to the government or that it is enough just to strengthen cases like this law. I think that Parliament's role within it should be strengthened, which shows the present state of affairs. There are 30 MPs and MPs here, we are discussing one of the most important laws regarding the Republic of Croatia. If by any chance there was a law on what was before a chicken or an egg here, there would be 150 MPs and advocates. If by any chance on the agenda there was a law defining what marriage is here, there would be 4 million and 350,000 MPs and MPs. And since we are discussing the relationship between the government and the parliament on European affairs issues here and in the public, there is a minimum number of MPs and deputies. Why? So because we do not have a real relationship with our political issues, which is the role of Parliament and where real power is and where are the real decisions. Because we, together with part of the media, are involved in the production of obsessions and in the destruction of parliamentaryism wherever we can. Our problem is not the government of this Parliament or this country, our problem is unfortunately not a strong enough government and not strong enough parliamentaryism. Our problem is the day-to-day devasting of both Parliament and government by those who believe they can represent a more direct will of the people than Parliament can and can do. Therefore, there should also be ways to prevent the degradation and weakness of parliamentaryism. Those who have real power whether they want to have an ideological power, whether they want to have someone else, they're the ones who destroy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43886	Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43887	Right fellow, parliamentarians are not dumber than the average of the Croatian people. If in public a firm perception is created that the Croatian Parliament has no role to play in the decision-making process, our colleagues who are not sitting there have also understood. The fact is, there are decision centres that are neither here nor across Mark's square. And the fact is that these are owners of large-scale capital in Croatia, people who decide on the fates of Croats and Croats and our fates, people on whose behalf and for whose benefit decisions are being made. We can speak names, we don't have to speak names, Parliament is there, let's say the third or fourth instance in order to make decisions. This confirms a simple fact that no one lobbys with us among parliamentary deputies. Did you ever hear someone lobbying, that someone grabs parliamentary MPs let's stand up like this, set yourself up like that? No, it's not happening because it's unnecessary for God. It is known that parliamentary representatives of the majority party will raise their hands for what the government says and lobby in government rather than here, why would it lobby, who's a jerk to do it? The role of Parliament is reduced to the observer and to the place where it is discussed. This is exactly the role for European jobs that we are doing in a good time. It's not our smart job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43888	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the SDP club and the esteemed representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43889	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. First of all, a request from the President of the Parliament to allow me to withdraw in this shorter speech a parallel with business changes related to European affairs shortly when we are going to describe what follows us within the new affairs that the Parliament is going to be doing, above all about the changes. In this law, it is important to state that some major changes are made in Article 8 which closes the circle from the entry of documents into the Croatian Parliament to the exits, conclusions according to the Brussels institutions, this is resolved by Article 8 of the closure of the circle. Article 15 has been further completed and I invite all of you here to find any member of the EU who, after what we have now changed, has something stronger or stronger in Article 15 of Croatia. I have also said in a speech at the first reading of 15 Member States of 27 in parliament in one way or another involving parliament in the selection of candidates for European institutions, 15 out of 27 and those 15 are divided into 10 that have a framework report that the Government informs Parliament here it is our commission and 5 in which Parliament can talk to it. We can also lead to the tide if there's a disagreement with the government. And such a model does not have any EU members at this time. Similar to Austria, she changed last year. Article 10, 11 has also been completed, the reporting possibility has increased as these are, above all, basically, articles of reporting which, if we look at the Rules of Procedure, include all committees that are interested because the council has not only... So the General Affairs Council, of course there is ECOFIN there is a Council on Education, Culture, etc. It is clear that the parent committees will be able to talk to the ministers about what was on the Council itself with the fact that you must always consider myself and for the last time, I have said to you, often, that a council session is being opened, the agenda is being determined, it votes on harmonised points on council working groups and ends only by councils. [[The speaker speaks English, no translation.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its In fact, also when we had our first reading we presented the figure, 17 members have a reporting system for the European Council of 27. These 17 members are divided into 7 models, there are even an indicative number of 7 models. And in that first reading, our law belonged to a model that would be called... the speaker speaks English. This second reading is about a hybrid model of one that has the strongest and greatest scrutinial model before the European Council, so it is a hybrid model. The key to talking about and talking about Nordic models like that lies in that word committees. We don't have one committee that does all the work, we have all the committees involved. And that's why I asked to briefly mention the Rules of Procedure for the reasons that committees are all involved. They are involved in the selection of documents that will end up in the work programme, they are involved depending on the area and thematics of policy to discuss with the competent ministry a certain point that will go to the council and they are equally informed about what was on the Council itself. The Committee on European Affairs shall, above all, have the role of coordinators and at the end of the conclusions. And there was already a question of what happens if there was a deviation? You must take into account the EU's dynamics and the fact that we are not alone in the EU and the deviation often occurs in a conversation with my colleagues from the EU when the Member States are overvoted. So I ask you to take into account the key job in the EU Council is taking place in working groups where the Republic of Croatia can always be revoted. And that's the EU dynamics, and that's what's happening. We can commit the government to something and the government can fight with hands and feet and be overvoted, that's how it is. Why are we passing this law? So we're bringing in the maximum strength of our position. I don't think there's any clear discussion about how this is the weakest Parliament, the incredible weakness, we'll just be bystanders on the side. We are passing the Law not to allow parliaments to weaken and parliaments have weakened to the Lisbon Treaty. One part, I said for the last time, surveillance is something that's been going on for 40 years. Lisbon further included parliaments to strengthen the position of the national parliament in relation to the position it had before the Lisbon Treaty. And let us not forget in the end one thing, we know from the negotiations, from the signing of the treaty and ratification, we know basically the defect that we are handing over powers and that parliaments as such institutions are weak in relation to the institutions of the European Union. I'm just going to give you a brief example. Here is the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia who, we know that. But if you look at something called the ordinary legislative procedure in the European Union, it is attended by the Government and the European Parliament. Excuse me. Both our Europarliamentaries and our Government will participate. Because it is the government that represents Croatia under the Lisbon Treaty in the institutions of the European Union. And defacto, as strange as this sounds in the regular legislative procedure, the government becomes a legislator. It is such dynamics and such procedures as follow us with membership in the European Union. And, yes, even so, in Europe, there is indeed, what my colleague Vuljanic said well, although in the European Union much more and other centres of power surrounded around... lobbyists, stakeholders having an important impact on the construction or drafting of certain acts, legislative or non-legislative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he will face it very often as a Euro-representer. And it'll be one of his jobs. As for finally what our model looks like if we compare it to our neighborhood and the Nordics. We are within a few more firm mandated models, of course, not a Nordic model, but neither is this necessarily European model in which parliament is only being reported. This Parliament has influence, look at little models in our environment and you will see what kind of model Croatia with this Law gets. With you knowing right away, the Nordics began to change their models. It was simply the strength of the Nordic model that began because of the dynamics in the European Union that are still in crisis and decision-making speeds that led the Nordics to loose their models. With the key difference in the Nordics being one big grand commissiontee, the most often large committee on European affairs that account for up to a third of parliamentarians. In addition to having strong centres of excellence in national parliaments doing a huge job of making views, parliamentary reserves and eventually even scientific and research work. I don't see any problems for the Parliament to decide, and for a certain period in the future, it goes that way. But this is at this point a question of our reality. What brings us new jobs? The new job is this, by adopting this Law, the Government gets certain deadlines, we are already working on the first work programme in autumn of 2013 and while we will be in the first work programme for 2013 and defacto learn to do this work will open processes for 2014. At the end of October, we will receive a new work programme, a proposal from the European Commission's work programme on which the Government will manifest itself, to which Parliament will have what is called the Prior hearing with the President of the Croatian Parliament and with all committees I repeat once again that the selection process is easier for, say, legislative acts for work in 2014. As far as the views we're taking don't look at them, the government doesn't consider them, the government doesn't turn them as paper left and right, the government acts on the basis of conclusions. It would be as smart as most member states do to find a model of flexibility for certain topics where the government is left with other EU members to be more flexible on the council. Just as smart as it would be in the national interest that there are points around which we will simply be harder and not give up. This is what all the members of the European Union are doing. And the conclusions we draw are the basis for the government's actions. But with the legislative acts, we will have a whole series of non-legislative acts to meet with this year, 2013, on the autumn of annual growth programme, the specific country recommandation next year, means recommendations for Member States and a whole series of policies from which, for example, next week, I apologize, tomorrow is debated on the European Council as a policy to combat youth unemployment, which is very important for Croatia, given the percentage of youth unemployment, the European Social Fund, youth entrepreneurship, guarantees, etc. It gives a really big job to the Croatian Parliament, to all MPs, no one will stay in the corner, everyone can be involved in the design of the programme and tell what they think of each point. The deadlines are clear, often in the first wave and are not long, do not forget about the subsidiarity issue we have 8 weeks. And for frame positions we don't have a lot of time that can be on... to change and then we have even less time for the final points of view. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this is the European Union's dynamics. That's how all the members deal with it. With that to be said here, there is a reference to the action assessment, an assessment of the impact of the regulations. The European Commission will carry out a basic impact assessment for Croatia. We'll be able to look for extra, extra. That's, like, one of the good novelties. Of course our work with P.Z.E. does not stop, only comes business that the D.E.U. documents of the European Union will go through the position towards the institutions of the European Union and P.Z.E. which will return to be transposed by a regular process into our legislative framework. So we're increasing a certain amount of work. And I believe, so I cannot argue here, I believe that by 2020 more than 60% of Croatian legislation will be fundamentally European, perhaps even more. And at the end of the European Council, just so you know that dynamic. The key work of this House is, in fact, in Article 8 in the timely giving of conclusions and opinions on the point of view, but Article 11 and the European Council have yet to dare say stronger dynamics. Last week on Thursday, Wednesday or Thursday, the government received an indicative agenda for the council tomorrow. Thursday or Friday was notified by the commission that Monday or Tuesday morning will receive key documents for the European Council at the latest. Yesterday, the General Affairs Council, which has been through these documents, agreed on certain conclusions, and today is the final agenda of the Council to which the prime minister is going tomorrow, which means he leaves us room if we want to talk to the Prime Minister before the Council that with the framework agenda and individual documents only one day or two at the top of the Council we go because this is also unfortunately the dynamics of this kind in the European Union. And you need to break certain names about what's being heard here in the Parliament. Finally, allow me, last sentence, for Croatia as the 28th member of the European Union, we in the SDP consider this to be a good, firm model involving all MPs not only some elected committee but all representatives and bringing one good proportion to relations with the Government of the Republic of Croatia representing Croatia in the institutions of the European Union. And in the end, nothing is in cement and nothing is cemented. As we last said, models can change, we will see for the next 6 months, a year, how Parliament works and we can change our model of cooperation at any time, as has been changed so far by each member of the European Union, some and several times in one year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43890	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43891	Dear colleague Daniel, you have concluded that the legislative authority, i.e. you have asked a question, or you have said that you know who the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia is. It should be the Croatian Parliament, however, it is not so. The legislative authority is the Croatian government that passed the laws and every Friday that voting machine at the moment is counting on you and the President of Parliament 13, so the total number of members of the Kukuriku coalition in the Croatian Parliament is 13, counting on the President of the Parliament. On Friday, you will have the majority, to vote this law, which let's totally clear it up, is primarily a Balkan model, and this Balkan model is referred to in Article 4. And let's take off that veil of non-secretivity but simply take off the veil of what you want to interpret to us all the time that the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, will decide something, discuss, etc., will not. The power of the assembly under this law shall be exercised by the Committee on European Affairs and Points. So all debates, all misunderstandings about European affairs will be addressed on the Committee on European Affairs. And even if necessary, when a session of the Parliament is needed, the President may call on the Prime Minister, and this is said in Article 11, which will be held at a session of the Parliament or at a meeting of the Committee, so as soon as there is an alternative, then it will be a session of the Committee, not a session of the Parliament, which, as the Parliament does, will vote on every Friday on what it will do to the head of the party and that is, that is, to relent on the real legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia. And you raise this coefficient of yours as a percentage so people know what they're going to vote on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43892	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43893	Dear colleague, I think you surprise me, as far as I know, this is your second term, so far we should know the difference between the executive, legislative authority, the trio of government in the Republic of Croatia, but like this. Professionally, the Committee is the one who is the primary and co-ordinates other committees, the committees are concerned, all work on committees should now show each party as much as it knows and as much as it can. And as for Article 11, there is why one and the other, because the European Union knows ex ante and ex post and we allow one and the other option, both ex ante and ex post, the discussion of what would be, certain traits of movement before the European Council and after what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43894	New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43895	Dear counterpart Mondekar, it is clear to all of us when we entered the European Union, i.e. when we will become a full member of the European Union, then we have transferred a large part of the political powers to the European Union, that is, one part of sovereignty, and that is not at all controversial. Today, however, we regulate relations between the government and the parliament. You, I will reflect on only one of your claims, you said Article 15, that no one in the European Union has solved the issue as we have solved Article 15. However, I read you the last sentence, which reads: if the Government does not accept the opinion of the Committee on this matter, it shall inform the Parliament, which shall then conduct the debate. This is an unfinished thought, it's a missing squad. And what about after the debate, what do you say after the debate? The parliament is having a debate, the government does not accept the board's opinion and then clarifies to the parliament, the parliament discusses it, point. What's next? I think this text is a humiliation of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament will weaken regardless, it is too weak and now, and now what it could have done to him by this law is being taken away from him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43896	Replication response, distinguished representative Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43897	Thank you very much. An esteemed colleague when we discussed in the first reading and now in Article 15, so the basic premise is that Article 15 does not have to be, because candidates for European institutions are known in whose jurisdiction they are. And I think it is very good that the Croatian Parliament has any influence than none. That's number one. When I spoke of what influences are then most of you will literally get a piece of paper that is not discussed. Most EU member states do not have a debate, the government informs the parliament it has proposed. In some Member States, you can talk to the candidate, it's us, and we have this little thing. Why do I think this is good? Because if we talk to the candidate and the board turns out that the candidate, no to God, is not good and it still doesn't pass, then it's our shame. And I believe that this should then be discussed regardless of whose government and whose majority is in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43898	Thank you, Your Honor. New Replic and Vice President of the House Honorable Representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43899	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Agent Mondekar. You said that parliaments are weak compared to the EU. This was so up to the Lisbon Treaty and even in the assessment of the state of the proposal in the first reading of this law, it was said that one achievement of the Lisbon Treaty compared to national parliaments was the increased involvement of national parliaments in the revision of the EU-level legislative procedure. However, what we and more colleagues have noticed today is not the problem of weakening the national, our Parliament in relation to the EU, but of the government. And that's the problem we keep pointing out. This problem is reflected in a series of articles, practically in everyone. Article 6 where it is said that Parliament will receive information on the type of procedure. The government is informing the Parliament. The government is delivering information to the Parliament. I'm just quoting different. The government is obliged, but now what the government is obliged to inform the Parliament if it deviates from the conclusion of Article 8 of this law. So, what's more, what's little more in the Parliament is given to the government's authority to step down and then simply report to the Parliament that she stepped away from it and nothing to anyone. It is a problem, not a weakness of this Parliament in relation to the EU Parliament or the EU institution, but a weakness of organised, systematic, planned impairment of the influence of this Parliament in relation to the government and that is what we are constantly pointing out. And as I have said, it is seen from a whole series of articles and formulations that have been placed inside, and even if you want those I repeat again, it seems that there is a certain amount of Parliament's authority, then it says on the basis of which the government operates in the EU institutions. Why doesn't he stand on the basis he needs to or must act? Therefore, there is actually a series of expressions that weaken the influence of this Parliament in relation to the Government and that is unspeakable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43900	Thank you very much. And the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43901	Dear colleague, in my speech, I mentioned a whole series of states. In our environment, the most common formulation of the laws is this: Parliament can ask the Government's position on a particular issue. And then paragraph 2 reads: The government can respond to Parliament and give him something. Against our entire region here, all our neighbours in the European Union Croatia has the strongest model, the strongest model in the entire region. Our conclusion is something the government must act on. She can't do it because I said spin that paper, so let's just say we like it, consider it. No, it has to work, it has to work. However, there was a question when it said it could be concluded. Well, of course, we'll draw conclusions on these acts, but we can discuss in the Committee a non-legislative act, some policy. Well, that's not what we're gonna come to. So we allow ourselves to work both legislative and non-legislative, to bind government more firmly or loosely which no country currently has in the region. And finally, the government is the one representing Croatia in the EU institutions, the government should leave room for manoeuvre, but this law allows us to be regularly informed that it was not before Lisbon, it is the key thing of Lisbon subsidiarity and information, basically, that we have regular all the information, that we can respond in time and that we can use the possibility of being stronger or more loose in our decisions. Believe me, they don't have any land in our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43902	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly of the Croatian Democratic Community and Honored Representative Gordan Jandroković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43903	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we have five days left until our entry into the EU and yesterday when we were returning to our colleagues, Picula and colleagues from Dublin, we were there at a meeting of the Committee on European Affairs of the Member States. On the way back to Zagreb Airport, we met four delegations returning to different EU-related jobs, which really shows that Croatia is seriously entering a new phase of its foreign-political but also internal action, that we have a terrible dynamic ahead of us. The Ambassador to Ireland also told us that during the presidency she had about 100 delegations coming from the Republic of Croatia in six months to Ireland. Therefore, it is seen that there is an extremely large, extremely demanding business which also requires great responsibility but also large and strong administrative capacity. How we as the Croatian Parliament will deal with these challenges will show time. But the way we're going, it's not exactly our odds, because unfortunately, we're bringing this bill in a quickie at the last minute. We'll adopt it two days before entering full membership. We bring it in non-transparently. I talked about it in my first reading. Those who proposed the law were changing, jumping from the government to one committee, and on the other board, and here's what we have. We are also entering the EU in an atmosphere that is not positive, there is this controversy over the European arrest warrant, and now I see different tricks the government is trying to transfer responsibility to others. There's even talk of changing the Constitution. Mostly everything seems to be so that once again responsibility for one bad thing, one bad proposal, a reckless proposal, a perfidious proposal would be shifted to everyone else, and the government is there as good and positive. And now, instead of getting into a celebration atmosphere, that we already have this law, that we've tested it well, that we know how it works, we're actually entering the EU with new divisions, we're entering seriously violated credibility, and I'm sorry on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club what happened and I'm still taking advantage of this opportunity, and I hope there won't be any change when it comes to a European arrest warrant with what was in the 2010 proposal. As regards this law in the second reading, according to the HDZ Representatives Club, there has been no significant shift for the better, although this has been announced. The HDZ also announced the investment of an amendment, which is what we will do. We hoped that in the spirit of what we discussed and in line with your announcements, you would adopt the essence of our proposal, but it seems to me that this is a compromise and simplified proposal that has been reached probably in the agreement between the Parliament and the Government because the process of writing the law and in this second reading is also very interesting. I remember on the first reading there were no representatives of the government, so today it is good that at least here and I welcome it, but what is interesting is that, in the opinion of the HDZ Representatives Club, there has been a shift in the relations between the Parliament and the Government, but to the harm of the Parliament and in favour of the Government. And now that's very interesting. The Assembly, the Assembly Committee, is writing a proposal for this bill, and it's in favor of the government. This is very, very unusual because it is very much in the reflection of these new proposals in the new solutions that the government has suggested, however, that these solutions will look and make their position easier than what awaits them when we become a full member of the EU. And here's the argument that we're not speaking out of our minds, but we're going to try and explain it very, very carefully. Two are the key things. It is one thing to adopt this work programme to consider the position of the Republic of Croatia, and it begins with Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here, the government says, on the basis of the European Commission's annual work programmes and the EU presidency programmes, it shall submit to the Assembly by 15 January of the current year the list of EU legislative acts to be discussed at EU level during the current year. It's okay. The Committee shall consider the programmes of the European Commission and the programmes of the Presidency of the EU Council and the list of proposals for EU legislative acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, on the basis of which it shall adopt a work programme to consider the position of the Republic of Croatia for the current year. And that's okay. Then we go to Article 6, says the government is delivering all EU work programme documents to the Parliament, the government will deliver the EU documents referred to in paragraph 1 of this article and all other EU documents in a way that provides the Assembly with EU access to the base or in another appropriate way. So we're taking what we're interested in off the Internet. All right, we can accept that, too. Then the committee comes and says the position of the Republic of Croatia on the EU document referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to the Parliament immediately after the adoption of the position of the Republic of Croatia. So now it comes to the Parliament of the position that the Government delivers to the Parliament. That's just as correct. The Committee is then considering EU documents and views of the Republic of Croatia on EU documents in accordance with this law and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. And that's okay. And what you asked for was your proposal in Article 8(4) if I am not wrong about EU documents and the position of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee is having a debate and can reach a conclusion on the position of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of which the Government operates in the EU institutions. So, we have in a certain way as a Parliament, as a committee, committed to the government how it will work. The government is going to Brussels or Strasbourg for a meeting, and what happens then? There he disobeys the decision of our committee and says in Article 10. The Government shall inform the Parliament if it deviates from the conclusions set out in Article 8 of this Act. Now what? After that, we do not have any option as a committee, as a Parliament to protect our dignity, to call on the government, to call on the government, the government will simply whenever it is in its interest for different reasons, not only because of the change in the position of other Member States, not just because it remains in the minority, for various reasons, the Government may not act in our direction, or by our conclusion, and there are no sanctions for that. This article 10 was entered in the second reading. So he wasn't in the first reading, and we certainly didn't go in favor of the Parliament, but we went in favor of the government here. We actually gave them some kind of legal framework, a legal excuse for what they will certainly do. And here I'm surprised to you, colleague Mondekar, you've described nicely what's going to happen and I believe that's pretty much what it is, it's a big dynamic, complex job, and then what do we write like this? You yourself have just said in other countries of our environment that the Government can inform Parliament or Parliament, and then Parliament can react and the Government will listen or not. Well, then we could have done it that way. We've been doing a show for a year, we've been talking about the need to strengthen Parliament's integrity, and then we get a law that you who are certainly one of those people who worked on that law now says, "You know, reality is something else." We're not going to be able to operate objectively under this law. That's what I think the biggest problem is. What we've done, not all of us, but you from the SDP, you've made one spin as you often do, you've declared yourself very democratic, that you'll look out for everyone's interests, and then when the finals come, now we'll do what's possible, and that's how the government pulls all the strings, and everyone else stays the way it happens to them. If it were not just about this course of adoption of a position and a work programme to consider our position, we also have this famous article 11 that was said to agree on. And now, we have the first proposal of Article 11, which says, "The Prime Minister reports to the Parliament twice a year on the meetings held by the European Council. Extraordinaryly, the President of the Parliament may invite the Prime Minister to present the position of the Republic of Croatia for a meeting of the European Council before holding a meeting of the European Council." We have now changed it, so instead of twice a year, once a year, the Prime Minister, at the beginning of the Parliament's first annual session, submits a report to the Parliament on the European Council's meetings on the last year. What will be the debate after the entire year that passes, the Prime Minister comes and will inform us about what happened last year and how it can be a shift for the Parliament to do better if instead of twice the Prime Minister speaks only once. Why did you change that? Is that the idea of you from the Parliament or is that the idea of someone from the government? I'm asking you to make it clear. Why did you as legislators as a parliamentary committee, as most, as a SDP, go to reduce the position of the parliament here, and strengthen the role of the government, I am really interested in that. Furthermore, in Article 11, you added before each meeting of the European Council, the Government will, in writing, submit to the Committee the agenda and other accompanying documents and draft conclusions of the European Council, if any. We have a better suggestion for you. On the eve of each meeting of the EU, the Prime Minister will deliver in writing to the Committee of Opinions representing the items of the agenda. So we can get the agenda on TV and on the Internet, and the position of the Republic of Croatia cannot. Then it'll be some kind of dialogue and some kind of cooperation. In the event of any further explanations necessary or where the items of the agenda are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, the Committee may hold a special session at which the Prime Minister will report on the positions to be represented on the EU Council. You just said there's no time, but there'll be time. Sometimes there won't be time, then we'll be, we're not unreasonable, but what about when there's going to be time. We took another chance as a committee to discuss with the government and try to improve the position and position of the Republic of Croatia by working together. And you have the fourth item you have now brought here is related to the position of the President of the Croatian Parliament, who, if necessary, will present the position of the President of the Parliament at the meeting of the Parliament or at the meeting of the Committee the position of the Republic of Croatia for the EU Council meeting before the meeting of the EU Council or present a report on the EU Council meetings held. So you have now strengthened the position of President of the Parliament. He will, if necessary, assess whether to call the Prime Minister or not. I wouldn't be uncomfortable right now and reminding you of what was going on on the last current morning. Sit down, Zoran, give me the Rules of Procedure, so not now, I won't give it to you, etc. This is the level at which the cooperation between the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government will then function, because you have now reduced the possibility of the committee to influence, we will be written on the agenda, and the President of the Parliament will be the one who, if necessary, will call on the Prime Minister. So why did we go into strengthening the board, then why did we go through all this debate if that's the ultimate goal. We will submit an amendment to this article in the spirit of what I have been saying, so we want it to be retained that twice a year the Prime Minister is performing here to report to the Council on the EU Council meetings held, and we believe that we need to strengthen the role of the committee in the way I am saying that we are really participating in the debates when they are important and to commit to the Prime Minister and the Government to inform us of the positions that will represent Croatia on the agenda points, not on the agenda. You know very well that we can read the agenda anywhere. It is not something that should affect the better image of the Croatian Parliament and its work. So I'm afraid in conclusion, I'm afraid we've taken a step back from the first reading. It seems to me, however, that the greatest influence on this text had an intra-party agreement within the SDP itself where you agreed that it was the easiest and best work and that you would best protect your party interests, not the interests of the Republic of Croatia and not the interests of the Croatian Parliament. And I'm interested in one more thing, and I'm glad the Prime Minister is here now to hear how the government will function. I don't know if a government official can speak according to the Rules of Procedure. You got it. It would be good here, I call on him to hear the MPs who are here today to hear coffee is a procedure within the government, as the government has set up that administrative structure, which is the administrative capacity of the government that will face the challenges we will face from the EU. We have now set up the Parliament, more or less successfully but we would like to hear that one who will do 99% of the work and be responsible for 99% of the work, tells us that they will do it, who will be the competent authority, whether it will be at the Prime Minister's Office, whether it will be the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, at which levels coordination will be maintained, how the documents will be circulated. I think it would be worth it if the Croatian Parliament knew that because so far nowhere, we could not hear the government working in EU institutions anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43904	Thank you. Now we'll move on to replicas. A colleague, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43905	Col. Jandroković, Remarque wrote a novel by Erich Maria that my colleague Stazic does not correct me "In the West nothing new" and obviously there is nothing new about us. And since I am already in the second term a representative, so I know a very well about that Rules of Procedure that doesn't apply, but I recognize first and foremost the intention of a motionary who isn't in this case the Government, but behind this law is a government. Neither is the Parliamentary Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system an important article of this whole law is law 4. The power of the Parliament under this Act shall be exercised by the Committee on European Affairs. In the following text, the Committee. And this is just an act of democracy afterwards. The Prime Minister will come once, twice, three times, every 15 days to write written reports, the President of the Parliament will call on him, if necessary, etc. It is exclusively an act of democracy and complete unbelief not to tell a lie that Croatian representatives want to show us in another light. As counterpart Vuljanic said on average, we are intelligent not to mention the word he said as any average Croatian citizen. And this is what I would say is a violation of the Croatian Assembly's dignity. This is the law. And he asks.../The speaker doesn't understand./... and the question is, what about that committee, whether there will be more opposition on that committee than there will be positions. No, it'll be just like it is now. Decorating a democracy committee, a committee that will work exclusively for the benefit of the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole, not the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43906	Answer, reply to the replica, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43907	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, my colleague Vinkovic is correct, the role of the government in relation to the Parliament is growing stronger and stronger. And the Rules of Procedure and the debate on the Rules of Procedure will show that. This Law is a small baby compared to the Rules of Procedure and what is being prepared for us in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, since the appointment and discussion of the appointment of a new minister before the Committee of Resorship by limiting time by certain points, so someone will determine how much we will be able to speak, how many replicas it will be, these are also news that significantly favour the development of democracy and the reputation of the Croatian Parliament. And that's one tendency, it's completely clear, visible, look at the attitude to the referendum, look at the attitude to VAT for individual media. So everything goes towards strengthening the role of the government and strengthening the role of the Prime Minister at the expense of all other institutions, the democratic institutions of the Republic of Croatia. But it's not bad, because it's going to be very good now that it's going to be able to focus and responsibility for everything that's going on, from the economic situation to the social, the overall crisis that we have. Even to this Law on the Arrest Warrant, that is to say, a debate on an arrest warrant that shows the true character of this government and this ruling majority. But let him. Let them work. It's been a year and a half. I think those who were for them at first figured out what this was all about. And we will act in the Croatian Parliament, we will speak what we think and bring results.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43908	The replica of Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43909	Thank you, thank you very much. Let me get back to European affairs at the Croatian Parliament. So, regarding the conclusion, the Law and the Rules of Procedure allow the Croatian Parliament to draw conclusions, the Rules of Procedure say what is the conclusion and it is certainly wise of the Government and the Parliament to take advantage of what the conclusion gives us. And the conclusion allows us to express our opinion on certain documents and views of the government, to express our views on it, and then to make a commitment if we will. And it's a very well-solved model where the conclusion is three degrees. And that's why it's not basically going to happen, it's hardly going to be a deviation from the conclusion just and only what I said, what if on the working groups of the councils that are crucial. And you know well that's where you bring the job, what when after the informative... There is a change in the document itself or in the position of most members. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a derogation can only occur if we are too loud. And that's when the law says we're gonna have a debate. We're going to have a debate where the Ministry will tell us, look, Germany, France, etc. They said so, there was a change. And that's where we still have the option, so, through giving the very conclusion, a much greater possibility than any country in the region. And I don't want to measure myself with countries in the region, I think some of them have terriblely bad models, I think Croatia has a very good model. As far as Article 11 is concerned, I will just say, then, that one day is something that member states have as so-called. EU day. Why is this one EU day? Because this Law, this article of amendments, tells us that we will know about all European councils what is happening. If nothing else is minimally written, we will be kept informed of the European Council. And the President of the Parliament as an institution of the Parliament... I'm sure he'll take advantage of his opportunity. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And it's just the last thing, the business changes and the committee that can ask the President of the Parliament for a call, a call from the Prime Minister here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43910	The reply to the replica Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43911	My colleague Mondekar, you have failed to convince me that these changes and what we're doing are not just cosmetics. So if the Government of Article 10 is obliged to inform the Parliament, then let's strengthen Article 10, then commit the Prime Minister to come and report to the Parliament why there has been a derogation. Or at least ministers. ... So let him come, let there be a debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If they're going to inform us in writing and tell us we changed that because that's what Germany and France said, excellent, and what we've been making that conclusion. So let's go if we want to strengthen the role of Parliament, if we really hold it to the Croatian Parliament. So when it changes, when it steps away from our conclusion, then come to the Prime Minister, come to the President or the Minister and tell us why, explain to us, if you hold to our opinion, if it matters to you. If this law makes any sense. And no, we're gonna do everything nice, we're gonna try, we're gonna meet every Friday, we're gonna process a hundred papers I don't know how with five people working on us on the board. But, well, we'll do all that, and then the government will do something different, and then they'll let us know that she's very sorry for what she did differently and we'll just go home with our heads down. This is not it, this is not it, you have been saying since the beginning of this term that you want to strengthen the position of the Croatian Parliament, that you want to improve the image of the Croatian Parliament. With measures like this, you don't do this. I'm telling you, and in the opening statement, I said, everything goes hand in hand to the ruling majority and ruling party. In our time, you had the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, you had the chairman of the National Committee for Monitoring and Control of Negotiations. As an opposition today, not only the HDZ, no opposition party has anything, even according to the Rules of Procedure, to introduce another Vice-President of the European Affairs Committee, which also comes from the ruling majority. The joint parliamentary committee of the Croatian Parliament-European Parliament is being abolished where we had a president, and we no longer have that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43912	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43913	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Jandroković, you said that changes were made in relation to the first reading but to the harm of the Parliament, that is, in favour of the Government and that it is strange to you. So I'd say we don't really have to be surprised, I don't think it's weird, and I think you'll finally agree that we shouldn't be surprised because otherwise we're people in Croatia obviously that when we pick someone out, then they think they've got the throne and that they can manage everyone and that they can do whatever they want. We do not understand in Croatia obviously in politics that no one gets power but that it only gets the ability to manage public goods and run the state or some system. The Croatian Parliament as an institution has been through history, and it has already been spoken here today about the history of the Croatian Parliament in a slightly negative way, yet it has mostly dealt with representing the interests of Croats, preserving language, preserving identity and everything else, and in this time when entering the Union we are in principle facing such a new challenge and it is very interesting to see that such a bill is being put aside by the Croatian Parliament, where in principle a group of people put themselves in a position to decide on the interests of Croats in a large community, in a community where we will have to fight very hard to preserve their identity. So I think that the role of the Croatian Parliament is absolutely necessary here, that it is even historical at the moment and that unfortunately nothing is strange when it is done here, but let's say the President of the Parliament will be able to say to you in the future I will not give you my Rules of Procedure and that Zoran can't do anything afterwards, you mentioned it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43914	Replication response, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43915	Is colleague Hrg, we can talk whatever we want, we can invite a government official to explain to us how the government will function. After we asked him to do it, he left, so he left. Here's a dear colleague instead of hearing how the government is going to function, the government's representative goes away. So just when we asked him and started discussing what would make the government's representative rise and go, without an explanation. So I think this is really funny, I don't know how you from the ruling majority don't have a problem with the second time we're discussing this law, the first time no one comes, and the long way we go to discuss it now, being a government official here, inviting him to explain to us what the government is going to do, and he's going to do it instead of leaving. Well, I think it's funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43916	The deputy minister had to attend a meeting of the government, which is at 12 o'clock, so he will be back when the cabinet session is over because the foreign minister is not in Croatia. And the last replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43917	I have to admit that I don't really see the point of the replica anymore because I wanted to refer to the statement of the distinguished representative Jandrokovic, who I think is very important because this is taking away a series of powers from the Parliament and giving them to the Government and the government will really run 90 or 95% of the affairs in relation to the European Union, and my question has been directed towards the Deputy Prime Minister, a government representative, someone, now unfortunately there's no one else here, about how the government will also function, how the government has organized itself. We know what solves this law and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, it practically makes it impossible for us in any important intervention and important influence related to the European Union. All right, that's how they ruled out, so they set themselves up, but whether or not the government will be able to take over all these functions. That's what we wanted to hear, to hear clearly we won't. And the question is, of course, whether or not the representatives of the ruling here are actually aware of what is being done and how limited is the possibility of this Parliament's influence. Perhaps, subconsciously, they are somehow aware that during this entire debate in the hall is somewhere between so many 10 representatives of the ruling party, there is no one from the second largest party of the CNS, but for a long time, and there is an apology. But actually look, somewhere about a fifth or a sixth of all the ruling is here when it comes to this very important aspect, and then, of course, there's going to be everyone at the vote, and it's really asking whether consciously we're going to go into it all, or ruling, and we can unfortunately just protest, that this Parliament in some way give up its ingenuity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43918	Thank you very much. Replication response, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43919	Well, I agree with you, colleague Reiner, and I'd like to take a brief look at the position of the government. Madam Vice President, I appreciate you saying that he went to the government meeting, but couldn't he have said I was in a hurry before that, so I'll give you a brief explanation of what this is all about. So again it's an empty bench, don't laugh people, talk about the relationship between parliament and government, about the most important issue Croatia is waiting for in the next week. So we enter the European Union, we talk about the relationship between the parliament and the government, and there are no representatives of the government, but twice. We call him to explain, he's gone. So is that, I think, how do you expect us to keep our mouths shut? Well, I'd like to see that that's how it was in our time that you'd be doing, what would you do and what kind of circus you'd be doing here? And we're just asking and he's not coming back during this law because there's no time. We still have that hour of debate, and the cabinet session will take a long time. And again as in the first reading, the government actually shows this its relationship with the Croatian Parliament, and this law is just one rag in fact that should cover up what is actually going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43920	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43921	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's first something like a zero point of my debate on behalf of the club. I would gladly welcome Mr. Klisovic. I believe, I hope he will return and will be involved in the debate because this is a debate, as we know about the relationship between the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament. And I want to mention once again in my previous discussion something that I was discussing when we talked about the bill in the first reading. Namely, how much we ourselves hold to the dignity of the Croatian Parliament is also the fact that the proposer of this law is the Committee on the Constitution, and I closely followed how many members and members of the Committee on the Constitution were present in this assembly. There were times when no one was there. Look also at this moment which of the board members are here. I think that members of the board, all members of the board, should also discuss this bill and that it might be a small step in restoring the dignity and the Croatian Parliament, as well as committees and the work of the board. We have heard a lot today of big, important and beautiful words and these days, anyway and we will hear about the last minutes and seconds before Croatia enters the EU and about how we have to go straight, how we will do differently, how we have to do more, better, more effectively, how we have to stick to the agreed, how we do not need to open up unnecessary sides of political first of all. But as you can see also the debate on this bill and ultimately formulating the functions of the Croatian Parliament, the work of the Committee on European Affairs, but ultimately what the Parliament will do and how it will do, I dare say in a sad atmosphere full of divisions, indeterminateness, and I fear that in the end we will have a law in which, in fact, no one will be satisfied, i.e. the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament. I remind you once again, the foundation for this law comes from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which we changed in 2010. We then introduced the provisions of Article 144, in particular, once again, and once again mentioning paragraph 4 where it is clearly mentioned about the supervision of the Croatian Parliament over the work of the Government in these affairs relating to the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. So, clearly and precisely, we're talking about surveillance. In fact, the legislator knowingly or unconsciously defines this in Article 3 where it is said in the exercise, where it is spoken of the Parliament's power to carry out European affairs, it is said that the Parliament monitors and monitors the work of the Government, monitors respect for the principle of subsidiarity, etc. Therefore, even in the very explanation of what is the framework within which the Croatian Parliament will act, it is about supervision. So what I would like to point out once again is that the name of the law itself is not adequate and should be changed if no other way is possible if this supervision cannot be entered into the name then I would suggest that we accept Mr. Pupovac's proposal and that we are talking here about the relations of the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament. I'll repeat something of course that's not news and nothing new or original, but ladies and gentlemen, by passing this law, we're not late, we're inaccessible as it is said. So, not that we should have passed the law, but that we should have defined all the specifics of the Committee's work, we should have chosen members and board members and the Committee should have started to function. If nothing else, the committee should meet on July 1st. If not otherwise ceremonially, the symbolic committee should begin to function, and today we are just discussing the frameworks of this law, the frameworks of work and the board and the Croatian Assembly. And I repeat, when there is a vote, probably no amendment will be accepted. This will be bad and we will have a law that will be brought to the public by constant co-workers and colleagues and, of course, by criticism in the Croatian Parliament. This will again generate the dissatisfaction of all those who look at us, taxpayers who pay us, citizens and citizens who have chosen us, and they will rightly comment that once again, even though we are EU members, we are unable to agree anything, we are not able to specify anything, and it is right to draw conclusions that we are not able to do anything to their advantage. And finally, of course, to the benefit of the state. That's bad. The perception of the Croatian Parliament is bad, that was already the case. Why is it bad? Look at the debate about when it's spoken in public, when polls are conducted to reduce wages. Only in the first place is always the talk of representatives in the Croatian Assembly who should reduce salaries, and we have now staged a debate that talks about almost seems insurmountable opposites. The Committee will have a big and important place for European affairs, and that has been a lot of words. I agree, however, the proposer did not, in any way, refer to the proposals that I made on behalf of the club in the debate in the first reading that in this committee, specifically at the beginning of our membership should they be representatives of all clubs represented in the Croatian Parliament. That would be a minimum, for example, if the board and symbolically represented all of us chosen. But let's not have illusions, we are today and every day faced with the fact that committees are struggling with quorums. This is, therefore, a committee that should be attended by representatives who will not only regularly come but all debates, all prepare well, will be extremely busy. And I cannot accept it to be one of the committees that will compete with one or two MPs who have come or have not come to the quorum, so that we can vote the conclusions because ladies and gentlemen on the conclusions, on the work of both the Committee and the Parliament as a whole, depends and that we will present ourselves as the 28th member of the EU for the first few months. So I ask the same answer to the question because today there will be a debate on the Rules of Procedure when we will form a committee and whether it is possible in any way to accept our club's proposal that all clubs, of course, be represented by a proportion of members who are members of the club. Now something very specific only about articles. Therefore, the Parliament's notification in Article 6 is said to be notified and added, and this is added in the second reading, to ensure the EU's access to the base or otherwise appropriate. It doesn't mean anything. In another appropriate way, it means nothing. I'm asking for it to be done. Certainly a key place is Article 8 on the discussion of the position of the Republic of Croatia, so the position of the Republic of Croatia is not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but rather the position of the Republic of Croatia, so the state as a whole. However, in Article 10, I may repeat a few things that have already been said about the report by the Council of the EU Council on meetings, it is said that the Government is obliged to inform the Parliament if it deviates from the conclusions set out in Article 8 of this Law. So, it's ladies and gentlemen all by themselves absurd in their source. All conclusions in the Croatian Assembly at the plenary session are made on boards by the majority. They are brought thanks to the ruling majority. Today this one, tomorrow that one. And we ourselves suggest here that then the ruling majority who decided something in the Croatian Assembly at a plenary session or on a committee actually be hit by the ruling majority here in Parliament in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's basically absurd. Because if ruling here decides something then I guess even ruling if nothing else across the street has to respect it. This type of manipulation in Article 10 does not guarantee this. So, the government is obliged to report on this by the Croatian Parliament if it has given up on the committee's conclusions, or Parliament, and of course that's where the question arises, what after that? After that, ladies and gentlemen, nothing. It is also foreseen that, if necessary, Article 11 of the President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Prime Minister will present the position of the Republic of Croatia at a meeting of the Parliament or at a meeting of the Committee, as well as how and how the call of the President of the Croatian Parliament takes place. I think the minimum here would be that, for example, on a proposal of at least three club representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Parliament is obliged to call on the Prime Minister. So we need to find some fuse because the Prime Minister is always a member of the ruling party, and he is always a member of the ruling party, no matter what parties I repeat. So, the President of the Parliament will then consult with the Prime Minister in this logic where he will always be from the same party, if it suits you to come, it doesn't fit us, we won't call you. So I propose, it is a simple mechanism, on a proposal of at least 3 club representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Croatian Parliament will invite the Prime Minister. And of course again it is said that on the reports and the position of the Republic of Croatia, I repeat the Republic of Croatia not the Government of the Republic of Croatia but the Republic of Croatia, because the government is talking about the views of the Republic of Croatia that the debate will take place and what after that? Nothing. So there are no conclusions, none of these are mentioned here. So I suggest that this article be done absolutely. There are so many legal unnecessary gaps left here that they will definitely lead to complete confusion in interpreting this law, and then of course in interpreting the powers of the Croatian Parliament. And finally something that was not equally referred to by the motionor although it was brought forward in the debate on this law in the first reading, I return to the Constitution and return to constitutional provisions. It is said that the Republic of Croatia in the Council and the European Council represent according to the powers of the Government and the President of the Republic of Croatia. So here we are dealing with the views of the Government and what views the Government will make, what views the Government will be representing, but no one has referred to the views of the President, so we are not talking about the institution of the President in the Council and the European Council. It is a life situation that the government and the president, I repeat, do not talk about names, do not have to and often do not have the same views, and this will likely happen in the future. Then what? Ladies and gentlemen, the answer to that question is a constitutional provision we don't have and no one has opened it in any way. So I'm asking you a question. Can you, for example? The Croatian Parliament is asking the president to make his views known to the Croatian Parliament. We are in a system of parliamentary democracy of this I am aware and aware of all the powers of the President of the Republic whoever he is under the Constitution of the Republic but the answer to that question, and I do not think it is irrelevant, however, we do not. And what if I repeat any dispute over any important issue between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the president of the Republic of Croatia? I propose that once again the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system meet and discuss all these views with representatives of all clubs in the Croatian Parliament before voting on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43922	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. The first is a colleague of Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43923	Honored Madam President of the Parliament, Mrs. Kosor. You're crying too much for this deputy foreign minister if he's coming back, he needs to come back, you'll enjoy coming back with him for some discussion. What are you talking about? This is only one indicator of the state of consciousness of the ruling furniture and their relationship to the Croatian reality. And I'd add what the people see is what they choose. It's not a private marriage election, so when you change your mind for three days at the mother's, that's it. This is a four-year marriage. Let the Croatian people see who he has chosen, what authority and how this authority applies. So what we're crying about is whether someone from the government is going to come here and get us 30 as long as we're here to listen. And you're talking now in the end about the Assembly Committee on the Constitution and so, there's the president of the Assembly Committee sitting there proudly, and he says he doesn't care that 780,000 people asked to ask a question in the referendum, he says he won't accept a mass of 780,000 people for it. And Mrs. Kosor, you've been a journalist as far as I know on Radio Zagreb, so this through the regimeal media government is channeling criticism towards the Parliament by gradually turning the Parliament into a public garbage can into a public spithole and in some way not using other attributes to get the people away from the government and move them to the Parliament. But in the end, and that's good if it's the role of the Parliament and the MPs to empty the electricity and frustration of the people in some way when the people yell at the Parliament then let's be so useful at least. I agree, and we use it to the Croatian people and the Croatian state. But don't expect anything else from this set and hope for something from them that they will hear you, God forbid or obey or listen to us and neither us here how many we are a hundred.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43924	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43925	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Marasovic that I am crying too much, I am not crying at all and in much worse situations than you know from the recent and my past, so I am not crying because the government's representative is not here at all, but I quote "I would gladly welcome him" and I would gladly welcome Mr. Klesovic if he were here and it's good that he was even brief. No one was at the first reading debate. And as for the media, you listed a lot in your replica. Yes, I was a journalist on Croatian Radio. I'm very proud of that period. By education, however, I am a lawyer, and I also tried to discuss this law exclusively from the legal point of view, taking into account the draft law but certainly the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And forget the crying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43926	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43927	Dear colleagues, Kosor, our laws are in breach of practice. We are a constitutional parliamentary democracy, we know well that in practice it is not. You are instructed in fact one fact as to how the public perceives the Croatian Parliament. Perceiving us correctly, Parliament is an institution that has no power. The real power is on the other side of Mark's square, but you were Prime Minister of the Government, you know very well that's the case. And then it wasn't in your time that the majority of parliament opposed your proposals, she listened to you, there were decisions made as they are today, so she complied with most of your decisions. Nothing has changed in the last few years in two, three decades except this law formalizes this unnatural anti-constitutional relationship. So this law just formalizes what's in action for a part. And probably in the coming years, the next laws will further reduce Parliament's power and hardly fool the public because the public sees that there is no power here, that decisions are made elsewhere and I repeat, so it has been before.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43928	The answer to the replica of my colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43929	I did not glorify my colleague Vuksic in any way how it was before and at the time when I led the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it is known how the Government is elected in Croatia. The government is elected in parliament, the majority is elected, those parties, those parties that have most MPs and of course choose the government. That's how it was, and it will be until we change the Constitution. But certainly, if I were never to sign a law like this, I would certainly ask it to be done, to fill these gaps, and not to have room for manipulation, or to blame the interpretations. That's for sure. The colleagues who were with me in the government know that I had repeatedly removed some bill proposals and from the narrow cabinet when we concluded that they needed to be completed, so we don't open unnecessary discussions. And about how it will be in the future, I think that we must work on it and that MPs are elected as much as possible directly, means that citizens decide who they choose, who will represent them in the Croatian Parliament, and that as far as possible they decide by their conscience, by accepting good suggestions. But it seems to me from this perspective that we'll be waiting a long time. As for the perception of the Croatian Parliament, it is bad, it will not improve, because today we have representatives who rarely come, who say nothing, who say nothing, who announce that they will not come to the Croatian Parliament and nothing happens to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43930	And Joseph Salapic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43931	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mrs Kosor, I agree with you in the part where you spoke about your proposal that we should strengthen the expertise and capacity of the Committee on European Affairs. This composition, given the great powers that the Committee has received, could so far have worked as to seek quorum, whether someone will come to the session or not, and these are important issues and issues of national interest to our country. And it would be good if all the representatives of the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament were not already going as we suggested in the first reading of this Law, which is that regardless of these 6 external members of the Committee, it is true that these members are not obliged and do not have the obligation to come every time to the Committee, there is a higher power and various, different obligations of external members. We also suggested that the Committee be complemented by European law experts because we believe that this solution, given the great powers in accordance with Article 4, is not particularly good for the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this proposal, if the Committee were to step up with all representatives of the Clubs of Representatives, would give me the certainty of the quality and great contribution primarily due to the interests of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43932	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43933	Thank you very much. We are, of course, discussing the same and it is also on track in the European Parliament and elsewhere in the Member States of the European Union to strengthen the work on committees. Unfortunately for us in Croatia, in the Croatian Parliament it is still on weak feet because we are all witnessing countless times collecting quorums that I was talking about but also about the fact that sometimes there are very important laws and things, there are almost no debates. So, we have to admit that many of us are preparing poorly for the Committee's meetings, and there should be a key political debate, there should be a brush of views and always a ruling one, so those who decide should pass on to their centrals what is there, let alone something smart and constructive for the state to say and try to put it into proposals that come into the Croatian Parliament. However, insist, and here you are, that this Committee, if neither of us are to discuss amendments to the Rules of Procedure, is indeed to be conceived so that the representatives of all clubs sit there, can speak and that we then monitor them. So also in the number of arrivals, inconsistencies and debates. Everything is measureable, and then we can change the members of that committee. And I think that would be a good practice and guidance for improving our status in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43934	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43935	We don't know if anyone's coming or not, but here we go back to European affairs. It is not good to create here the wrong picture, first of all, for one debate, and then because of these day-to-day political events that are very important, the issue of the importance of the topic discussed today by representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament is being debated. What is not good and short I want to look back at that we MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament are also responsible for the credibility of the Croatian Parliament, we are responsible for the mandate that we received from our voters in our election units and through this picture of the highest legislative body in the country we send not only to the Croatian public to Croatian citizens and citizens but also to the public of the EU. This is one of the laws that we should firstly pass by consensus in one quality, one joint expert debate because it is not at least a constitutional category of this law, in view of Article 144, it is a historic new chapter in the Republic of Croatia, a Croatian future in the EU, and it is something that is primarily a newspaper, because we are sure that there will be problems with the functioning of the Croatian Parliament, the professional services of the Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the people working in the government on European affairs issues. First of all, we are ready to adapt to this part of the adjustment everything we have done in this legal section, and now follow what is said in practice, followed by true problems and true things that will come before both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. What we must not lose, and the trend is following the development of the European Community, today the EU has since the very beginning so that national legislation or national parliaments in certain times of EU enlargement have weakened the issue of the principle of subsidiarity and this issue, which in a "determined part of the powers" of the Croatian Parliament, is transferred to the European institutions, to the EU institutions and the EU Parliament. It's something that's a fact. But the fact is also that this part of the delegation of power must not lose the dignity and credibility of any national parliament and in this case the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government and the president of the Republic of Croatia. We did not negotiate Croatia's entry into the EU nor our European future to convey our national sovereignty to anyone, nor the key national position of the Republic of Croatia, but as for our natural, geographical and geographical position, as well as our political place in the EU, and therefore this long-term job. It should not be forgotten that we are one of the EU countries that has come the most difficult way in the negotiation process and we are sure that every other next member in our neighbourhood that is looking for its European path will have a much easier question because everything that has gone wrong in the most difficult times has gone over the back of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we MPs must not forget that this is the most representative body in the Republic of Croatia to spring from our Parliament and come from the Croatian Government and Croatian ministers in the Government and that this is what needs to remain in our national legislation and in our key national interests. We are sure that this article 4 transfers of power to the Committee on European Affairs, which we said in the first reading of this law, if it is a matter of delegation of power, does not mean that in a complete sense these powers are transferred and that the Croatian Parliament will not have anything to do with what the Committee on European Affairs is doing. We have advocated this if it is the decision of the majority, we did not agree that in that part we should give such powers to the Committee on European Affairs without a plenary session of parliaments and without us legislators in key issues at least on the most important issues discussed in the EU institutions as representatives and club representatives. We have proposed and agreed that the Committee on European Affairs cannot carry that weight alone on the basis of the current composition of the board in accordance with current business provisions, but that this committee should first and foremost be filled in by representatives of all clubs in the Croatian Parliament, but what is not accepted and I am sorry that it is not accepted that the Committee consists of 6 external experts who are selected by expertise and by that public invitation, which the Croatian Parliament publishes. We have proposed and it is not accepted that the committee is strengthened and experts in the field of exclusive European law to gain first and foremost the quality of the work of the board, not because it would be a political picture of some new structure in the Rules of Procedure, but because it will be difficult to work on this committee and there will be great challenges for that committee and that it is not enough to have just such a key as it is today, and this is this political one, which, after the election in the Assembly, is chosen on the basis of a certain key, is a member of the committees. We believe that this solution is not good and that it will have consequences for the quality implementation of this law that we are discussing today, which is the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. Our proposal is also not accepted that this law should have its name and the issue of supervision because the constitutional category mentions the issue of supervision and these are two key thesis. One issue is the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the other issue is the issue of supervision, which is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and we believe that this would be a better solution for this law because one side is sure that it is crucial that the Croatian Parliament oversees the work of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the EU institutions. And we are also sorry that that change in Article 8 has not been accepted when it comes to key topics that will be discussed on national interests and issues that will be on the agenda in the EU that the issue of the conclusion to be reached by the Croatian Parliament towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia is acting binding, not as is now this structure that does not oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the EU institutions. We have proposed to amend that Article 8 and it is not accepted in this final text of the law which is not good for us. We also disagree with the different formulation of Article 11 of the final bill where what is said in the first reading is now completely changed, which is that once a year the Prime Minister only addresses the Croatian Parliament on issues and policies and our positions in the EU's common institutions. We think that it is too little to say once a year about a year back on such important issues. It is not good that this article should be reformed and completely changed and returned to those original proposals on the basis of the first reading, but to strengthen Parliament's role through this article of the proposed final text of the law because I say it is also a constitutional category and therefore it is not necessary to mix what is the key, key solution and the Law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia itself. And that's why we're pushing for this article to be the 11th... Article 8 is to be amended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are also pleased that this Article 15th on the issue of representatives of the Republic of Croatia on the common bodies of the European Union is addressed in this way and that this is therefore a hybrid solution that only the Republic of Croatia has. It is good, but we have seen in the first step that we have, in a certain way, chosen our member for the Court of Auditors, so we can say to be embarrassed and we believe that we need to strengthen this control through here this proposed article, above all, a good solution, but that we need to strengthen this control and take care of what representatives from the Republic of Croatia will choose in the joint institutions of the European Union. A lot has been said today, perhaps more than was needed. We also talked about the credibility of the Parliament and the presence of our colleagues representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We think on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club that this is an important and key issue ahead of Croatia's entry into the European Union. We cannot support this final text of the law in this proposed text because there is not a single remark that is given in the first reading but we call on the Croatian Government to do, so there is little time left and it is not good that only a few days before Croatia's entry into the European Union we are discussing this Law. We call on these key articles to amend this final text of the Law on 11th and 8th and 4th. We have until Friday and to make the law above all a good law for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Because we don't sit here, whether the constituency chair is empty or full because of ourselves, but we sit because of the responsibility and trust that we have received from our citizens. And I am sure that this, responsibility and trust can only be justified by quality work in the Parliament and by the very role of the Parliament and by the laws that will first and foremost be in the interest of our citizens and people living in Croatia. And then the question that will show whether our European path is the right path, whether Croatia's membership in the European Union has really contributed primarily to our country, our country, our citizens. If that's not the case, then we haven't done much. We hope that this Final text of the Law will change until the vote and that, because of the interest of all, we will find a consensus in these key issues. If that's not how we do this final text of the law, we won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43936	Thank you very much. Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43937	Dear fellow Salapic, simply to supplement you and if I had my other tool, correcting the incorrect quote would probably be shorter. Since they've picked up those plates and that Rules of Procedure is in effect. But here, first of all, I would particularly like to apostrophe this article 4 and this article 10. So Article 4 is definitely saying that Parliament's powers are being taken over by the Committee on European Affairs, and there's a point, there's no more talking. All these further articles speak about the relationship between the Prime Minister and the Government to the Committee on European Affairs. Thus, Article 10, which states that the Government is obliged to inform the Parliament if it deviates from the conclusions set out in Article 8 of this Law. But it doesn't say what's going on, which is to say the penalty. There's no punishment. So he can and doesn't have to. And the most common will be the case I won't. Report. Now, on the other hand, perhaps this, today's defamation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would not say Croatia as a whole of the Croatian people but as a Croatian government. Because this is not a Beyonce concert, so Beyonce cancelled this visit, not a visit, but a concert in Zagreb, but a visit from the Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany who cancelled for the sole reason. For the sake of the yawning carried out by this government. And that's it, that's the only truth and the only story. It is also the law of diletantism, javaluk and all that the Croatian language in all its visions can say about a law that degrades this Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43938	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43939	Thank you, Vice President. We have repeated this many times today, but the truth is that instead of being a constructive one today, we can say, this week it will be a solemn week of work of the Croatian Parliament a few days ago Croatia's entry into the European Union we will get such a political slap in one of the worst ways possible and we will do it to ourselves and for unknown reasons. Those who have done so know for themselves and those who have done so return Croatia to the past and not to the future. And we're all drilling into that our future is in the European Union. I agree with you and we are on behalf of the Club of Representatives and we said that we should not weaken the role of the Croatian Parliament in this proposal, because that is, we also said in the debate, but through the Lisbon Treaty it is mentioned differently that the roles of national parliaments should be strengthened rather than weakened. That is why we have proposed a different formulation of Article 4, we have proposed a different formulation of Article 8, and we have suggested that, since we do not have a majority as an opposition, but we can give a constructive discussion of our contribution to a better law to strengthen this Committee with additional experts in the order of those who deal exclusively with the area of European law. And unfortunately, all of our proposals from the HDSSB Club and other opposition clubs are not respected in this final text of the Law. And that's what's not good. We said that one quality government and quality laws should first of all oppose a quality opposition. We need to strengthen the quality and expertise of the government's work through our discussions. Not every criticism of criticism sucks. Some criticism, some proposal should also be made for the reason that what is proposed and what will be concretely implemented in the Republic of Croatia has, above all, the benefit of those who live in our country, are our citizens. If that's not the case, then we really talk to ourselves and do no good to anyone. Neither our country nor our citizens, and we are doing great debauchery and great shame on Croatia through some of these historic days ahead of us which is certainly not good and I am sure that you and all the other representatives agree that we did not need it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43940	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is a colleague, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43941	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, actually, these first three points that you were just talking about and one extraordinary one that came on the agenda by breaking up the session are very connected. They are actually talking about the credibility of the Parliament and the law that we are talking about now, and the Rules of Procedure that we will talk about a little later are about the credibility of a smaller Parliament. You can see the respect of parliamentary deputies, especially opposition representatives, and let's just say that in action we keep mentioning the crime scene. The opposition speaks of the government's views here in the Croatian Parliament increasingly rarely heard, so because of the crime of inaction and one big mistake was made Thursday when we discussed the arrest warrant. Now I'm going to, so I'm not being warned that I'm not sticking to the subject, although the subject is also this extraordinary item of the agenda, whether it was cooperation or dictatorship, that's what you can ask. This law should regulate relations, obligations, determine jurisdiction but not cooperation. It's probably two neighbouring countries, they can cooperate, they don't have to cooperate. Co-operation is not binding. This law does not regulate the relations of the Parliament and the European Union. It has been mentioned several times that by entering the European Union, we have certainly deprived ourselves of a part of the political competences of both the Parliament and the Government, we have transferred it to the institutions of the European Union. National parliaments are weak, it is a fact, but not only in the European Union, national parliaments are mostly weak in the world. National parliaments in the European Union are not only weak in relation to the European Union but weak in relation to other institutions in the countries of origin. The weak power and influence of parliamentaryism in both the European Union and the world. In the light of this law, I will read a very short clip, by strengthening the role of national parliaments, the European Union is seeking to overcome the democratic deficit. Look, in the European Union, they acknowledge that there is a democratic deficit, God forbid you mention here a democratic deficit that is very prominent. So it seeks to overcome the democratic deficit created by the perception of the European Union's distance from its citizens. Perception is correct, the European Union is moving away from citizens as the national governments are moving away from citizens to serve neoliberal capitalism. National parliaments therefore directly participate in the performance of European affairs through different national models, etc. So it is said here that parliament should oversee the work of the Croatian government, but when we talk about the supervision of the Croatian government, then it is supervised in all segments, and when it comes to European affairs. Who today fears the influence of the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, because they fear the agencies. Is the work of the agency dependent on our opinion, whether to go to a director of the agency, the head of the agency has been removed because the Parliament has expressed a poor opinion on the work of the agency, is the power and influence of Parliament and our discussions the color of tycoons, are they afraid of the power and influence of the Croatian Parliament of the corporation? They are certainly not afraid, they are not afraid because their fate is not decided by the Croatian Parliament. The key to democracy right now lies in the fate of parliamentaryism that celebrates and according to this statement of reason and in the European Union are aware that today's parliamentaryism has never been weaker than it is today. I voted in favour of joining the European Union because I felt that only the United States of the European Union could, that they could resist corporate democracy. The word corporation and democracy are essentially being suppressed. The power and influence under this law is installed even in a narrow circle of people, a government that has so far been strong, with this law even stronger and a committee that is actually a fig tree of the board in which the majority has power, in which the opposition is only a decoration and in which the second vice president is introduced, which means the government will have both the president and the vice president, so that the president will not accidentally be absent, so God does not chair a meeting of the minority vice president, the parliamentary minority. This law, I have quoted in replicas before, intended for the Assembly the role of observers and escorts. Article 3 sets out what follows and what everything is involved and what the Croatian Parliament does not decide. Earlier, counterpart Mondekar said that in many other parliaments, states are in the environment of members of the European Union far up, that there is no debate there about anything, decisions are made on a piece of paper. It is interesting how we always look at those courtyards that are worse organized than we are and not looking at those parliaments, those political systems that are far more democratic and far greater influences have their parliaments in their countries. What they bring when and when we talk about the debates mentioned by counterpart Mondekar, which bring debates when always voted against most of these discussions. Because there are ten days when we haven't heard from the authorities, so the majority of the Parliament means not a single word about a few laws. This just means that most of us here in the Parliament have accepted the silent office system and that it fully supports this Law that degrades the Croatian Parliament. And I would only mention in the end that several times here in the Parliament is mentioned today, it seems to me twice, several times before being above this House only God. I think that's what my colleague Vinkovic said. But above Parliament in a secular, lay and democratic state is only a nation. Except in Croatia, there is only the Government above the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43942	Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43943	I don't want any colleagues about the people and God, although I think there should be a Croatian people and God above the Parliament. But you don't have to wonder. I'm more surprised by this silence, the silence that comes from this side. It's really an important law. My colleagues know I didn't keep my mouth shut when I was with them, and I can't keep my mouth shut now either. And this is the silence that shows this relationship, the relationship of those who won in these elections the majority and the will of the citizens, to get this country out of the crisis. And everything the Prime Minister who apparently turned the government into a large SDP club in which you do not have the right to democracy will be voted on Friday, when these balls are filled, when these MPs are right to raise their hands on that non-small salary and that's the case. And this is how I feel when I start to lift this replica like this so that every chairman there gets a headache. Well, you're gonna get a little more headaches because we're here to talk about what's right now, and right now this is degradation. This law is the degradation of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian representatives. After all, both Croatian peoples and Croatian citizens who chose all of us here to sit here and receive that low wage. And the problem, the problem is this silence. And it hurts me even more when I see that suddenly the deputy foreign minister disappeared after the opening of this topic that was being held and debated Thursday when all the cameras were shut down, except for the one on maxtv.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43944	Thank you very much. Comrade Vinkovic, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43945	I'm done. And I wouldn't want it to be our destiny without the O.Z.A. finding out everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43946	This didn't take too long. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43947	Yes, my colleague Vinkovic, I agree with this silence in the Parliament of a pair of ears. Yes, and sometimes silence is heard the most. And this silence is certainly one attitude and a very clear attitude. However, I think that the Deputy Foreign Minister has rightly left the Parliament, because I hope that the government is now sitting and talking about exactly what we talked about here or some have spoken about, others have listened about the cancellation of Chancellor Angela Merkel's arrival in Croatia and that we will get what was asked of the Club of Representatives of Labour by means of an indication whether the Government has withdrawn that law or has respected as advocate Kosor's amendment said and erased that famous date from the law. I guess we'll find out. If we don't find out maybe from the Deputy Minister, the Foreign Minister, we'll probably find out from one of the authorities here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43948	My colleagues and colleagues, we still have two individual representatives on board for the debate, so I suggest we conclude that before the break. Do you agree? Comrade Miroslav Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43949	Thank you, Madam Vice President. For over four hours, colleagues and colleagues have been discussing this final draft law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. All MPs, all opposition MPs agreed that it was a reduction in the influence of the Parliament in favour of the government with this or that variant in that assessment until it was said to be also the degradation of the parliament, MPs and the Croatian people. However, it should not be surprising, in fact, that this is the behaviour of the motionor or committee on behalf of the promoter, because Prime Minister Milanovic said at the 1st session of this Parliament when the law was changed, the so-called law of Komadina, it is not against the constitution, it is part of our world-wide horizon and it is legitimate. We have a majority. That's what we'll bring. So what they're proposing is still legitimate and legal today, but it's with inexplicable consequences. We must make sure that today the government no longer represents the majority in the Parliament or on the Croatian political scene, rather than representing the Republic of Croatia in the EU, i.e. on the European political scene. Therefore, the adoption of European laws is not like making laws in Croatia that after the change of government we will be able to change that. This is directly what counterpart Salapic said about the threat of national interests and the issue of the sovereignty of the Croatian state. This is why these solutions are actually designed to objectively harm Croatia's interests. It is one thing if the government in these negotiations, talks, procedures concerning political solutions will appear on its behalf as the Government of the parliamentary majority, and another thing is if we can perform and say it on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, that is, on behalf of all political options. Croatia has too few representatives and too little strength and political and economic and whatever others you want in the EU, statistically 1% if so, and if it goes with this division it has half a percent compared to all of this. And therefore the logic would be that the government speaks and advocates, it can speak with other governments regardless of their political composition on behalf of national interests, on behalf of the entire Croatian political scene, meaning the Croatian Parliament and negotiate, look for partners with other countries who think the same because this means that these views will be permanent. I therefore think that there is a need to respect what they are, and I will also call on this Article 8 where there is a relationship between the Government and the Committee on European Affairs, and I have proposed an amendment, and I think that others have said it in another way, that the position of the parent committees should be respected. That the Committee on European Affairs may not adopt its views without taking into account the opinion of the parent committee. If we link this to this next item of the agenda where there is no saying in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament where there is no saying that the working bodies, or parent committees, are the assumption that some law could come to the plenary session, but only it is claimed that the parent committees are discussing it, then the clear thing is that there is a full risk that this Committee on European Affairs will be the only committee and that it will cancel the influence of all other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. We can accept the argument that due to speed it will not always be possible to carry out these consultations or to implement the whole procedure, but it is not realistic to expect that key things will be discussed, that key laws or key decisions will be made in such a way that there will be no time for the parent committees to discuss this. In the case of the Government, I suppose, i.e. the Proposer did not want to take this simply because some other parent committees probably do not have complete control, and then they fear that these parent committees could, other parent committees might give some other opinion and are proposed to go to the point where both the board and the Government are both in the case of conflicting opinions and between the parent board and this Committee on European Affairs are then to attend a plenary session and agree to find a solution. On the other hand, not to take into account the role of the parent committees is to lose initiative in European affairs. Because we still have the logic of this that we are some kind of member in preparation or in preparation and not that we can have the initiative, so that the parent committees can initiate something, so that it will go further through the Committee on European Affairs in European procedures. Therefore, I think that reducing responsibility to only one committee means losing importance and jeopardising the future and role of the Assembly as well as the role of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. And it seems to me that this amendment should also be respected, but also most of these remarks made here today by the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43950	Thank you very much. Replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43951	Well, here's colleague Tudjman, here's the point of this law. And the intention of this law is to exclude the Croatian Parliament from the whole I would say EU affairs, not European affairs because there are countries on the old continent that are not yet EU members so as not to come to some confusion. But here Article 4 is definitely clear, the powers of the Parliament under this law are being exercised by the Committee on European Affairs. Even in the follow-up of the committee so that the motionor didn't have to work too hard, he was obviously saving ink. It is only the reporting of meetings of the EU Council in particular on this Article 10. The government is obliged to report to the Council on EU documents and the positions of the Republic of Croatia but there is no legal provision which, if the Government has made a mistake in those positions, and has not informed the Committee of which, before the adoption of the position itself, and there is a great danger that in this part, I would say a slightly lost part of sovereignty, because we all must be clear that Croatia lost not part of territorial sovereignty by entering the European association, but part of sovereignty relating to both the right and the power of decision, etc. and that this is precisely the law that the Government is definitely ousting the Croatian Parliament from all these affairs. So someone said it was a fig leaf. I would not say even on a fig leaf but shift it to one committee that will not be agreed with the clubs of representatives of all political options in the Croatian Parliament or with other committees responsible for certain issues. For example. In the case of local self-government, the Committee on Local Self-Government does not have any possibility of either giving an initiative or proposing any debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43952	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43953	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The fact is, this reduces the influence of the Parliament. Whether it's intention or ignorance or haughtiness, these are the terms we can discuss. But what I believe is crucial and I think you mentioned, it is about sovereignty and on the one hand about the future not only of Croatia but also of the future of the EU. In my deep confidence, the EU will have as much future and success as the Member States will be satisfied in that EU, and to what extent it will retain its sovereignty, both national and political and cultural. With a policy like this not to take care of these interests and such a policy, simply one that will do so in the future will lose food with the entry of the EU rules of legitimacy of individual parties and party programmes in the Croatian public in the elections, those who will only advocate their own party interests, and will not take care of national interests, I believe it will not have a lot of chances or it will take people a while to understand it but it will end that way. And precisely because we do not deepen the crisis we are in, we need to work as hard as we can on the consensus on key things in order to be stronger and domestically, as well as on the international stage, or on the European political scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43954	Thank you. And a colleague of Davor's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43955	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, it is an interesting fact that in the short term, this is the second time we have discussed the Law on Cooperation between the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to say the number of MPs in this Chamber. Unfortunately, the government's interest seems none, because one of the only representatives who's been able to listen to this debate for a while has disappeared from this Chamber, and ruling other than having them relatively few have no interest in getting involved in the debate. And this is the painful topic when we talk about the cooperation between the Croatian Parliament and the Government, just today when this law is on the agenda, we see how the rulings imagine the co-operation of the Government and Parliament. So the government doesn't need to hear at all in Parliament what we have to say about this, but that's why we're getting the hidden threats of an arrogant Prime Minister who sends his comfortable distance from the other side of this square messages that he can characterise as a hate speech when it can already be characterized in this way, the only thing he will certainly find offended and when we talk about him that way. I do not know if you have been able to listen to what the MPs have said, whether you have invited a representative or a Prime Minister to be shown in this House about these latest developments related to our legislation, EU accession and accession celebrations. I don't know if you can telepathically arrange it, but I didn't get the impression that, apart from what we suggested, the Prime Minister would turn to the MPs to get anything done on this matter. That is why I would like to say, and I will repeat the inadmissible clamper of the government as it relates to Parliament, what the parliamentary majority has been trying to resolve is also unacceptable, and this is what is being done by the Croatian Parliament and the Government. I join those who are the basis for the adoption of this law in Article 144. The Constitution and the amended Constitution are precisely so that we can pass a law like this that does not speak of cooperation but which speaks of the supervision of Parliament over the Government in European affairs. And Article 4 which is often used as an explanation that the issue of Parliament and Government cooperation is what this law is based on is only one exception to the rulings, the possibility of finding some arguments which, by the way, do not stand because the division of the authorities in executive, legislative and judicial matters, and thus the co-operation of these authorities is manifested in many ways, not by adopting such laws. I would say this law is the basis of Article 144 and it speaks of supervision, not of cooperation, but of monitoring Parliament's work on issues related to the European Union. I will repeat what I was saying in the first reading of this Law which is not accepted of course, but I will appeal once again to the Proposer to consider, instead of European Affairs, the jobs we are talking about in the European Union's affairs, because I think that this term is more precise, that it speaks more specifically about what jobs they are and in the debates before, we have heard that European affairs are a much wider notion that it also includes something that has nothing to do with our accession to the European Union. So here again in my debate I will ask and submit an amendment to the Proposer that, instead of European affairs, everything that is said in this Law on Parliament and Government's relationship is called the European Union's affairs. Furthermore, in Article 3(2), the Assembly can consider other European affairs in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. He can certainly do so by virtue of the Constitution, so such a provision is completely unnecessary. The fact that the Parliament can do so should not give him particularly this Law. It's already laid down by the Constitution, so I think a standard like this in this law is completely unnecessary. And something that shows why I said something about inconsistency, about haste, about five days before we enter the European Union, we adopt this Law in a second reading. This shows you in the final line and the transitional and final provisions of the Law. which states in Article 17 that this Law will be published in the National Journal and enters into force on 1 July 2013. This is another piece of news in lawmaking. This Law does not take place on the day of its publication in the National Journal but does not fit what it said I would already reach in the regulated systems, leaving a certain time so that everyone can get to know this Law or vacam legislation which is usually 8 days from the day of the Law's adoption here because of this hastyness and in the last even solving of the issue you do not have eight days to get to know the Law. Because the law will come into force in five days. It's a whole new deadline, unnecessarily such, maybe it would have been better if you'd left here an eight-day deadline for that law to come into force. But that law shows everything we talked about. This Law shows that by one law we are defacto changing the current level of relations between Parliament and government, that we are de facto changing the Constitution because the Constitution has set different relations between Parliament and the Government. But always and exclusively at the expense of Parliament and in favour of the executive authority. So and with the next points we will discuss, let's say the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we will see a lasting trend and the intention of the parliamentary majority to degrade, degrade the work of the Parliament and in any way give priority to all issues of the decision of the Executive Authority, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And what good is that the government has earned it, this government or this kind of exhibition in the regulations will unfortunately not help. So I suggest, instead of further discussions on this issue, and I join the call again, let's call on the government's representatives to Parliament. We have something to talk about because the topic of the agenda is the relationship between Parliament and the government. So let's hear it live so I can say all the threats of our Prime Minister who insists on showing that he's going to war with everyone, that for now he's been at war with both employers and trade unions, that I'm not talking about political parties, and lately not only with other links in society and holders of some ideas worth understanding but we've come to a conflict with our own, I'd say to European partners and we've been informed that Chancellor Merkel won't come to celebrate our entry into the European Union. So I'm asking you, maybe it's on the trail of that promise that Croatia will blush, I think it's blushing out of shame today, it's just a question of what we're going to have to do, how to wash away from all of this that we've afforded ourselves the last few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43956	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43957	The issue of the European Union's affairs is, above all, the Federal Republic of Germany's failure or the lack of a Prime Minister in Croatia, but above all their internal issue. But so is ours. Because the German Bundestag has a far greater role to play in the decision-making than it has, which the Croatian Parliament has. Now I wonder, since this is really about European affairs or the European Union's affairs and the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of Croatia, I would not ask where the Prime Minister is, but where is the Prime Minister at the moment. So, the strongest ally with the Vatican has just been the Federal Republic of Germany since the beginning of the creation of independence and an independent Republic of Croatia while we, it is a sign enough when someone does not want to come to the central celebration. It's just turning your back on all this politics. So I wonder if it wasn't clear enough, if someone was already pushing the fox who really forced King Kong out, but not just King Kong, but Godzilla too. And call the Prime Minister, call the Prime Minister because this is not the cancellation of concert performances in Croatia, but this is the resignation of the Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany and it is a question of who will follow all these resignations so that they do not make this celebration for themselves. So if there is no one here in Zagreb, feel free to come to Đakovo, there will be a very good and very big celebration.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43958	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43959	Dear counterpart Vinkovic, you were wondering, or you wouldn't be wondering which of the government's representatives are here, but where is the Prime Minister? So the Prime Minister, as I said from a certain safe distance, sends only threatening messages to everyone, threatening messages he has sent to many, now sends to the parties, and those who are a little less afraid have already responded to him in this way, so here we are faced with the fact that our partners are canceling their arrival in Zagreb, only to hope that it is the only cancellation. I'm afraid this resignation wouldn't have pulled more, but it just shows what we've unfortunately been aware from the very beginning, that our Prime Minister lives in some SF movies or cartoons because he keeps calling on some amazing characters of King Kong, you've mentioned Godzilla now. I'm afraid he only cowardly took a tail from his obligations and responsibilities that were recently the main topic when the SDP MPs spoke. The key word is responsibility. This is the result of this responsibility, this is the result of responsible policy when, after commitments have been made, after all that you expected, you give up your commitments and think in your style, Nordic rather than Byzantine, that you can luggage, cheat, change the provisions of the law and then charge someone third. And you forget that from the beginning we've been talking about exactly how we're going to get revenge on this government attitude and this kind of work. It's only in the conglomeration of the relationship that the government has been trying to set up so far, the continuation of their work. And as five days before our entry into the European Union, we are passing a law on the relations of the Government and the Parliament three days before we find out who will be here and who will not be here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43960	Thank you. My colleague, here you often talk about the democracy of the current government... Yes, yes, it matters. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The important thing is, the way we talk about the post of Prime Minister. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Josip Djakic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43961	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Mlakar, you're right when you say that on the other side of Mark's square there are threats being made. Now you'll see, says Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, now you'll see when you've dragged the fox by the tail, you've driven out King Kong. Now you will see who will end up in court, who will end up in court from Mark's Square, and you my ministers will not be witnesses, let alone suspects in any court proceedings. Now we'll involve the judiciary to haunt them all. This speaks at a cabinet meeting of a prime minister, and we are talking about the cooperation of the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament on European cases and laws. It also says that we will see both the party and the party accusing and says the law will be voted and there is no dialogue. He's not interested in Angela Merkel, he's not interested in an arrest warrant, he's not interested in a warrant, he's not interested in a warrant, he's not interested in raising a reward for anyone who tipped off the place where Perkovic is. Imagine, at the same time as we talk about one law, these scandals and debacles of a government run by Milanovic, which threatens the Croatian Parliament and its representatives and MPs with hysterical statements. He threatened the entire party, clearly from the cabinet's session, saying that he would be accounted for, that he would judge and judge without a court, just as they did those for whom warrants were called from the Federal Republic of Germany. It's the same way he wants to deal with us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43962	Thank you. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43963	Comrade Djakic, I'm sure we'll hear the vice president's assessment of my speech again. It would be good if she gave grades to everyone, even though her position wouldn't allow it. But what you said, the Prime Minister is threatening everyone because he has a good experience, his majority has taken over parliament, his ideas have been taken over in parliament, and that is why we can talk less and less today about Parliament, and more and more about the government because it dominates parliament but not thanks to its quality, but thanks to changes to all the laws that give the government primate over the legislative body. So then Mr Milanovic concluded well, if he could master it this way I would say a cheap way parliament, why not take over the judiciary as well. He knows in advance who will answer, who will not be witnesses in actions and who will be judged. Therefore, we can only expect to impose our beautiful will other than Parliament on the entire judicial system. I hope our society is mature enough that such cowardice moves from a distance by sending messages, threatening messages to anyone who doesn't think the same way that the judiciary will respond properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43964	Ingrid Antičević Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43965	Here is my colleague, Mlakar, you mentioned in your speech, your debate article 4. The Constitution and the second paragraph but you spoke only of mutual cooperation, and you also spoke of the need for Parliament's supervision of the government which is nothing questionable. However, I am supplementing the provision of the article, that is, your statement with the whole article of the second article 4 which said that the way the government's division involves the forms of mutual cooperation that you quoted, but also the mutual checks of the holder of the authority, which has just been incorporated on everything that has been said that I am not talking now. As far as I'm concerned, I'd also like to rephrase to you when you said several times that the Prime Minister was threatening. The Prime Minister says he's going to tell the truth, and that's the problem with us. I think we should agree on that, that it's time for the truth and that for a long time, that truth and truth talk were considered a threat. But the giving of sweet candy, the suckling attitude towards different groups and institutions in society also brought lies and conversion to Croatia, so I would say financial difficulties, but first of all, to one crisis, the crisis had to. So the courage is today, there's no talking about cowardice. It's cowardice to court individuals, to tell one another, to tell one another. One thing to say in public, the other to speak in secret. I think it's our duty to tell everyone the truth, and it takes courage and that's not the place for cowardice. And there's something else I'd like to tell you. You said a lot, and here comes Mrs. Merkel. She sent her representative. Therefore, the German state will be represented, Schultz comes as well. Also, you are very concerned that Germany is looking for a Croatian citizen to anyone, but you are a little concerned when the Croatian judiciary asks Mr Ivan Radosevic, who boasted as a member of the CDU, hosted that video of you as a HDZ member. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] That doesn't concern you at all. [[Thank you very much. Replication response. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43966	Please, colleagues! Time's up. Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43967	I wish you'd also measured your colleague Anticevic's time as you measured the five seconds I exceeded. I have to admit, fellow Antičević, that I didn't understand your replicas very well. But you probably didn't understand what I was saying, so it makes sense that we're still living in a misunderstanding. I was talking about article 144. The Constitution, because it is he who is talking about the supervision of Parliament's work on the work of the Government, is this article in 2010 by amending the Constitution in order for us to meet all the preconditions for EU accession, and you are referring to the general principles that are being brought to life in many different ways than those which you have read both cooperation and mutual verifications. These cooperations and mutual checks have nothing to do with the adoption of individual laws, as in this particular case, the relations between Parliament and the Government. As for courage, and first courtesy, and the courage is far to speak of would require the Prime Minister to, instead of sending messages to political parties and non-sanitaries from his government building, and he was invited here to talk about his poor policy which makes it logical today for Croatia to be found here not perhaps as an act of courage, but at least as an act of decency. And in the end, I am not concerned about any person who should be extradited to any Croatian, any foreign judiciary, nor did I mention any of these names, and I see that you are directed to that. You're probably referred to as your president and to which one of them will be tried, who released, although the court has yet to say anything about these acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43968	Finally on behalf of...... Please! [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Oh, please! On behalf of the Proposer, the final word of the President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of colleagues, Mr Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43969	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I'm going to look back at one thesis that's been going through the debate, which is that the adoption of this law wasn't transparent. Such a thesis is the least imprecisely incorrect. This law was held by public consultation with the interested public, an internet debate was held, 9 sessions of various parliamentary committees discussed in this House, a number of remarks were adopted in various segments of the debate which came as from the majority representatives, which was from minority representatives, which was from civil society representatives. What's in that non-transparent? And as for the other objections made, first of all, colleague Vinkovic says that this law debunks itself and calls for Article 4. But Article 4 states that the powers of the Parliament under this law are exercised by the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Parliament unless the Parliament decides otherwise. The Croatian Parliament may decide at any time, depending on the importance of a particular topic, that the parliamentary oversight procedure referred to in Article 144. The Constitution and Article 3 of this Act shall also be implemented through a plenary session. And the Parliament is not deposed with this, but there are various parts of the procedures and supervision and other powers given to the Parliament through this law, but also through basic EU contracts that still require a little more professional discussion than we have seen today and you have witnessed from each other than, unfortunately, it has been common in the Parliament so far. Of course, we'll have a chance, and you'll be able to suggest that some point of the agenda is being discussed here, not in front of the boards. Furthermore, the Parliament is not even in charge of the Government. And this isn't some fall in Parliament's reputation compared to what's been so far. First of all, this law has never been before, this is something we are introducing, which takes effect on 1 July of this year because we are then entering the EU. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not apply until 1 July, nor would it be appropriate to enter into force on 2 July because we are entering the EU on 1 July, and we need a law that will regulate co-operation between the Parliament and the Government from 1 July. And in this law, the Parliament is not placed in a position of subjection, though. The Parliament shall adopt its work programme, not the Government for it, on the basis of the EU legislative plan, on the basis of the EU presidency plan to be adopted by the countries to be chaired by the EU during a certain period and on a proposal from the Croatian Parliament Committee. So, the Parliament itself decides what it will consider, and at any moment it can supplement that decision. The government will not decide what this Parliament will do but the Parliament. Furthermore, it is the Assembly that can reach its conclusion in accordance with the Constitution. The conclusion is binding on the government, however, the reality is that there is a possibility that the government will step down from that conclusion. And in that case it is prescribed that a debate will be held in the Assembly. This debate may result in a conclusion, and in certain cases this debate may also result in the government's not being trusted. And I don't know what an alternative would be? Is it possible to write that if the government retreats from Parliament's conclusion, it automatically falls? Well, I think that would be the easiest way to put it. So, in this law, there is no putting Parliament in a privileged position, though. As far as reporting on the European Council is concerned, the Prime Minister will once a year inform the Parliament of what happened in the European Councils last year. So at the beginning of the winter session, we will have a day where we will discuss the EU and the situation of the Republic of Croatia in the EU on the basis of the work of the Croatian representative in the European Council. And that will begin every parliamentary year. I don't see what's wrong with that, but we will continue to hold the Parliament before each European Council will be informed of what will happen there, and after each European Council this House will discuss the report on what the Croatian representatives there have done. And that debate can result in various conclusions. And again, this debate can lead to the fact that if we are not satisfied with the work of Croatian representatives there, we will vote on the government's trust. But we can't prejudge that. Finally, the Croatian Parliament, embodied in its President on its initiative or on the Committee's initiative, may invite the Prime Minister to come and explain either what he did on the European Council or what he plans to do, of course, if necessary. Because there are also situations, we will call them such a technical European Council where there will really be no need because decisions will not be so far-reaching that they need to be discussed further in Parliament. But the essential, fateful thing, of course, will be debated here and, of course, it will be the Prime Minister who will have to defend his proposals and his views. In any case, this law is a step forward, i.e. this proposal in relation to what was in the first reading, and in my opinion it represents a good balance between the position of the Parliament and the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43970	Thank you. And the replica of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43971	So, fellow coat of arms, the fact is that the game of the case is therefore the legislator of this law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, although we know very well who the real promoter really is and who he was. Let us leave an online discussion, facebook, Twitter and other things and return to this article 4. Therefore, the powers of the Parliament under this law shall be exercised by the Committee on European Affairs, except in matters of the EU's common foreign and security policy, which shall be entrusted to the Committee on Foreign Policy unless otherwise decided by this law or by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament or if the Parliament decides otherwise. So, on Friday, when you adopt, you lift up the handle, then the Parliament no longer has to decide again because it is defined by a law that takes power. On the other hand, you have one thing by my side a nice change for the rapporteurs at the first reading session was all the representatives of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that is likely for the Rules of Procedure, now just the two of you. It is the same indication of how and how the Assembly will be reported on business. On the other hand, there is one big one here to say the game, and that's exactly the Article 10 that talks about essential and fatal issues as you called it the Croatian State. The government is obliged to report to the Parliament, but it does not say what happens when it is not done, and when most in the Parliament as it will be on Friday and now you are in the minority to raise your hands and this law confirmed as essential and fatal issues of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43972	Thank you very much. Replication response, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43973	Here's a thank you. Well, I'd like you to meet me, too, who's the legislator of this bill, and I was convinced by a minute ago that it was the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, but I guess you know that much better than I do. However, we will return to matter and we will talk about Article 4, that this law defines how it will normally be handled, and in the rules of the Committee on European Affairs or on the issues of common foreign and security policy, it will be the Committee on Foreign Policy that will deal with European affairs as a rule and it is good to do so. We will delegate one body in which there will be people who, by nature, will know more about the EU to do these jobs. but other committees of the Croatian Parliament, the home working bodies, will participate in the parliamentary oversight. Each of them will consider a particular issue from the EU-related section and give its opinions. And when it comes to something of great importance, then the Parliament will decide to discuss it. I'll remind you, we're talking about the preparation of legislative acts here. Those of these acts that will have to be incorporated into the Croatian legal order will return to this House and will then be discussed before the laws become exclusively plenary session. That's something you might have lost sight of. These decisions here we are talking about their preparation, and from preparation to adoption, and ultimately implementation, there is still a long way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43974	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And now I'm setting a break until 3:00. Thank you very much. MEETING IN 14.04 HOURS.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43975	We're going to make a statement on the points that we have conditions for that. Final draft law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs, second reading, PZ No. 373. The legislator is the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the text of the law has been concluded, and the amendments have been submitted according to a table divided by MPs. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. I'd like an amendment from Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43976	The amendment of Agent Davorin Mlakar to Article 1 shall not be accepted by the applicant. The accuracy of the concept of European business is ensured by the definition of its meaning in Article 2 of the final proposal for a law which clearly requires the meaning of the concept of European business.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43977	I'd like the esteemed representative of Davorin Mlakar to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43978	Your Honor, Mr. President. The purpose of the amendments that I submitted to the Final Act on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was to replace the whole text of the law the concept of European business with the concept of the European Union's affairs, because this is a more precise concept and precisely includes what is the subject of this law and what is ultimately the relationship of Parliament and government. European jobs are a much broader concept, and they include those jobs that we do not want to cover with the content of this law. Since I am not satisfied with the proposal's explanation, I am requesting a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43979	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on the amendment of the honourable representative Davorin Mlakar, whom the promoter does not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number two of Honored Representative Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43980	The amendment of Agent Andrej Plenkovic to Article 3(1) of the first subparagraph of Article 10(1) shall not be accepted by the applicant. Explanation. The monitoring of the implementation of all the obligations arising from the negotiations with the European Union is a continuous process which is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43981	Dear Representative Andrej Plenkovic. He's not here. We'll have to make a statement. Please state the amendment number two of the respected representative Andrej Plenkovic who is not accepted by the motionor. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number three of Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43982	Amendment of Agent Davorin Mlakar to Article 3 ... which is proposed to delete paragraph 2. The powers of the Parliament referred to in Article 3(1) are not exclusive, and it is therefore necessary to maintain the provision of paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43983	I ask the honourable representative Davorin Mlakar to be shown to the amendment's proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43984	Your Honor, Mr. President. Now maybe I'll explain it simpler. The norm that I have proposed to delete from this Article 3(2) is pointless because the Parliament has its powers set out in the Constitution and we cannot either supplement or reduce these powers by individual laws, as is the case with this Law on Cooperation between Parliament and the Government. The Assembly can, of course, discuss all the questions raised to it in the framework of the Constitution. Given that fact, I think this norm is pointless and that's why it needs to be deleted. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43985	Please state the amendment number three to the respected representative Davorin Mlakar who is not accepted by the motionor. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number four of the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43986	The amendment of MP Miroslav Tudjman to Article 8(2) shall not be accepted by the applicant. The way the Parliament and the working bodies of the Assembly will discuss and make their decisions are arranged for the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This is the case with the provision of Article 154. The final proposal for a Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of the Committee on European Affairs during the debate, i.e. the decision on the position of the Republic of Croatia on the European Union document. The Committee shall take into account the opinion of the home working body when deciding on the conclusion and, de facto, cannot decide without having previously requested its opinion. In addition, the provisions of Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. The final draft law is clearly prescribed that the Committee on European Affairs exercises the powers of the Parliament under this law. In fact, the exercise of power in this case is not and cannot be absolutely determined because it is clearly concluded that the Parliament can take the decision on itself at any time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43987	I'd like an honorary representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43988	Thank you, Mr. President. What the applicant has now stated as an explanation of why this provision is not accepted is in conflict with this proposal because it is required here that the Committee on European Affairs should take into account the position of the parent committee, i.e. that it should have the position of the parent committee. The explanation is that it should be if I understand correctly, therefore I see no reason why it is not included here, why the amendment is not accepted. On the other hand, it is realistic to assume that there can be a difference between the opinion of the parent board, the Committee on European Affairs and the position of the Government, so it would be normal for it to be an obligation to consider these differences at the plenary session. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43989	Please state the amendment number four of the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman who is not accepted by the motionor. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment number 5 of Honored Representative Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43990	The amendment of Representative Andrej Plenkovic to Article 8(4) shall not be accepted by the Proposer. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes that the Croatian Parliament can draw conclusions with these proposals on the basis of which the Government operates in the EU institutions, cannot therefore use the word proposed by the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43991	Please show the esteemed Proposer, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43992	Contrary to your position as a colleague of the coat of arms when you say that this article is fully in line with the Constitution, it's not exactly like that. The wording in the Constitution speaks about EU documents. The formulation of this article speaks of the positions of the Croatian Government, and the purpose of the debate on the Committee on European Affairs before the meetings of the European Council, is that before the Council meetings, the committee formulates a position on what the Croatian Government as an executive body represents at these meetings in Brussels. And the logic is that the board has a certain conclusion, in the end you have an article 10 after which you speak, that if the government deviates from the conclusions of what is happening. And here you leave that possibility optional,... Why should the Parliament not draw conclusions on such important issues as the preparation of Croatian views for the European Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In theory, in the way the law now looks, it would be approximately that, with this one-year information about meetings of the European Council, the Croatian Parliament on how the formulations of the law today can only receive written information, that if the President of the Parliament doesn't invite the Prime Minister he never actually comes and the ruling majority can instead engage parliamentary debates on European issues the whole relationship between the Government and the Parliament is aware of correspondence and even without conclusions. This was not the purpose of European engagement and strengthening the role of the Croatian Parliament in the process of making Croatian views on European topics. That's the logic of this amendment. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43993	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment of Honored Representative Andrej Plenkovic, number five, which the Proposer does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to amendment number six of the Croatian Democratic Union's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43994	The amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 11 shall not be accepted by the Proposer. The proposer considers that the arrangement contained in Article 11 of the final draft of the law enables the Croatian Parliament to properly exercise control over the government's activities at meetings of the European Council. The applicant shall also highlight the provision of Article 6(7). The final proposal for a law under which the Government is obliged to deliver, at the request of the Parliament, without delay and any other documents and information in the field of European affairs requested by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43995	On behalf of the promoter of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43996	So, teaching everything I've said, and how I haven't been during that amendment that used to be about the obligations arising from the negotiations on the optics of our amendments, is the optics of the day of entry into force of this law, which is EU membership. Croatia must also have a self-awareness about the role of the Croatian Parliament in these circumstances. This would also be the logic of those obligations in the accession negotiations which are the fact that the Croatian Accession Treaty is part of the primary legislation of the European Union part of the acquis. So there we have repeated something we have already said. The logic of this amendment is that we have meetings of the European Council and that we have the coming of the Prime Minister in front of the Parliament at the invitation of the President of the Parliament. So we did not want to turn this new dynamic between the government's and parliament's relations into an opportunity for the Croatian public to follow European topics much better, much more closely than it has happened in the 18 months since we had observer status. Today and yesterday is the meeting of the European Council. From 9 December 2011, these meetings were at least 7 or 8. We as a state that had observer status, and I see here some ministers who participated in council meetings haven't held a single minute of debate in a year and a half about any issue of body meetings that have legal implications for us since July 1st. These amendments are all aimed at including the Croatian Parliament and improving the text and we therefore propose a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43997	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number six of the Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community which the Proposer does not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I would like to vote on the final draft of the law. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 35 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43998	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] So with, we start with the Final Proposal of the Rules of Procedure of Croatia and the Clubs of Representatives. The first is the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. ... Oh, I'm sorry, I thought it was done because I wasn't there, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry, here it is, no, no, I thought it was already, here it is, here it is. Here: - Final proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament – Proposer, Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, second reading; Of course the motion for the act is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You've all received, I thought we'd already made a proposal for an act in the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, of course, to the adoption of Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. And you received reports from those committees at the session. And here's my word, forgive once again the motionary's representative, Honorable Representative Paddy Grbino.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u43999	Here is the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as well as of the Law on the Cooperation of the Parliament and the Government in European Affairs, and here is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system between the two readings, which discussed the observations and accepted some of them. In this regard, in this presentation, I will focus on the most important differences between this final proposal of the Rules of Procedure that lies before us. And that proposal that was in the first reading. I will start with Article 234 which, even in committee discussions, has caused perhaps the biggest controversy and I will point out that by adopting certain proposals, it is proposed that, exceptionally from a certain time for the Parliament's presidency to speak, it may suggest that the debate on a particular topic of the agenda may take a specific time within which time will be allocated to political parties, in accordance with their respective representations in Parliament. In view of the new provision in Article 37 in which the Bureau of Parliament is empowered to adopt an annual session plan, we believe that, in the long term, such a provision could allow for more regular work by the Parliament in the sense that it is known in advance when it will be discussed, that it is known in advance when the debate will take place on the agenda and that the representatives may know both the time and place and everything related to the debate. That it hasn't happened to us as it has known in recent years often to literally change the schedule and not to know when to talk, who to turn to, who to. So we think that, in the long run, an exception like this could lead to additional order. And, of course, its intensity is not to restrict someone's right to debate but to know specifically how long the debate in a particular agenda will take place and, of course, within that each club will have the right to participate in the debate. Furthermore, as regards the amendments, it has been amended, i.e. Part 8 relating to European affairs. As already stated in Article 4 of the Law on the Cooperation of the Parliament and of the Government, it is stated that part of the power of the Croatian Parliament under that Law is also being exercised by the Committee on Foreign Policy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Rules of Procedure in a way that it is clearly defined that the Committee on Foreign Policy is acting in the same way as the Committee on European Affairs. So, upon receipt of the position of the Republic of Croatia, it also points to the home working body. It shall, after the completion of the procedure, draw a conclusion. It has also changed the way the documents are cut down in such a way that they first refer to the President of the Parliament who will then deploy what goes into the responsibility of the Committee on European Affairs to that Committee, what goes into the competence of the Committee on Foreign Policy. And, of course, with consultation with colleagues in the presidency, suggest that a certain point given its importance be discussed at the plenary session of the Assembly rather than on a committee. Furthermore, one can say from a whole series of remarks concerning the government's annual report in such a way that it is also renamed from the government's annual work report and state in the government's annual report. In line with those remarks which have been made that perhaps a report relating to the state of play in the government would come out of the framework of the government's work and enter into what are the powers of the President, the President of the Republic. In addition to those amended the provisions concerning the delivery of documents in such a way as to make it more clear that documents are made available by electronic means and not delivered via the Assembly's website. The provisions concerning the composition of the European Affairs Committee have been amended in such a way as to invite members of the European Parliament who have been elected in the Republic of Croatia in addition to those who are members. Provisions concerning the Committee on Foreign Policy have been amended in a way that the Committee will also have external members and several other minor adjustments in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44000	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? I'm afraid they're not even here, because unfortunately, there are only 10 MPs in the O.R. at all. Nothing, then we'll have a debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. And on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the first one will speak to the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In these nine years, I am about 12th debate on the subject of the Rules of Procedure, its amendments and additions, but it has never happened before that debate was attended by 15 MPs and representatives, 5 of whom are from the Croatian Labour Club. It is unlikely that this topic is of great interest to either the representatives or the Croatian public because they are all tired of the speed of passing laws and regulations and all because of 1.7, although I do not see any reason for haste when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. In Croatia, we often boast that we have achieved a high degree of protection of different minorities, national, gender, sexual, social, and I agree with the claim that these are the features of a democratic society and of a well-organised state. In this House, however, there are a majority and minorities, the political majority and the political minority. The act in which the majority protects the interests of the minority is the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and it is interesting that the political majority in this Rules of Procedure also takes away the right of speech that it has so far. Efforts to do everything and all mechanisms are used to narrow down the maneuvering space of the work of opposition representatives and clubs as much as possible. To this end, the role of the Government is strengthened in relation to the Parliament, and we all share our dissatisfaction with the reputation of the Croatian Parliament, the low reputation of which the Croatian Parliament enjoys in the eyes of the public and citizens. During the first reading of the Rules of Procedure, defending certain provisions entered in the Rules of Procedure, one SDP representative said the terror of minorities over the majority should be stopped. Following this, this Rules of Procedure clearly aims to contain in itself anti-terrorist measures, to stop this terror. At which points in this assembly and committees do we most often have conflicts, conflicts, misunderstandings, expressions of dissatisfaction, protests? The first point, the government dictates the agenda of Parliament and themes and times and this is somewhat understandable because it is of course the executive authority that will, through its parliamentary majority, rush what is important to them both in content and time. However, according to this Rules of Procedure, the Government has the power to block the debate on each opposition proposal and not to allow the opening of that debate during the entire parliament's term of office, the whole calls from day one to the last. Thirdly, the way the Parliament works and the role of the working bodies, i.e. the committee, which was often an argument in discussions that we will gain greater quality if we raise the quality of work of the working bodies and committees. In principle, when they complemented the agenda, they would not be done twice a week, the committees had 24 hours of time to discuss some agenda points so that at a certain time the debate could be opened, closed and voted on because that is what the government is asking for. The fourth point of opposition is the attitude of the majority towards opposition proposals and it has been going on for years and I expected that the writing of the new Rules of Procedure will be used to prove in this Rules of Procedure that it cares about the views and opinions of opposition MPs and opposition clubs and that instead of showing muscle in a norm that enables obstruction, opening discussions, it will use arguments in the debate and later in the vote. However, this Rules of Procedure contain such provisions that there is no need to vote. And of course, the final point of the opposition of this Rules of Procedure is that the Prime Minister is given special status in the Parliament. He is an innocent person who has a right greater than any representative in the Croatian Parliament. His is the last of every key wheel. I said it in my first reading, and I repeat, this is the kind of Rules of Procedure that will turn into the Rules of Procedure for the Protection of the President of the Government, whoever he is. We tried both on the board and on the first reading to warn about those provisions that I believe have done a lot of evil, a lot of conflicts have created in Parliament's work so far and offered solutions. As early as 9:00 tomorrow, the Constitutional Committee will consider any amendments to be made to the Rules of Procedure and we will most likely vote tomorrow at 12 and vote on this Rules of Procedure. One of the topics that is extremely important are so-called Cleared text of the law. We now have the situation that the Legislative Committee is working and publishing only if in the final provisions of that 18, 19 or 23 amendments and supplementing the sentence are entered or if the Assembly specifically orders it. We consider that in Article 62. The Rules of Procedure must be a provision to draw up and publish the consolidated text of the law after the third amendment and supplement each law. The deadlines in which the government must be read in opposition drafts of the law or other acts of zero are the point of the possibility of opening a parliamentary debate. This is the matter of Article 119, and for so long as it is actually 122, and so long as that article is not entered in the deadline that the Government has to be manifest within 30 days, it must give an opinion to the opposition proposal or the proposal when it is not the Proposer there is no possibility of opening a debate on working bodies because there are no provisions on this debate and the opening dates and discussions in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, there is no provision in which the Government must give an opinion, there is no provision within which the working bodies have to discuss the proposal they have received. And of course, there is no time limit or provision on the inclusion in the agenda most often abused by the President of the Assembly or by the one who sets out the draft agenda, because the 30-day period is interpreted as 30 days back at the time of the meeting, not the adoption of the draft act. So for example, one of our laws has been waiting for two months to be included in the agenda. This is the law in which we have proposed as we have reduced the material rights of all civil servants and tenants and later signed the government agreement with the trade unions that the rights negotiations will be opened when the growth of the gross social product is recorded three months in parallel, and this law awaits the autumn session, as a provision is used 30 days before the call, not 30 days after the entry. The MP asks the minister a question and gets a response from the minister for four minutes. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the Prime Minister has the right to supplement the minister's response, possibly another 4 minutes. What's this about? Distrust with ministers or avoiding or bringing up the situation that when a question from the opposition benches goes to a particular minister, the prime minister has the right to additionally answer in order to avoid the situation to say at the next current morning the entire opposition ignores, that we no longer ask the prime minister any questions, because we have nothing new from him. In order to prevent this from happening now, there is a provision that the prime minister has the right to additionally answer the questions of every minister who has already answered the question of MPs. Either it's a huge amount of mistrust with members of the government or the prime minister is not sure if they will answer correctly. Points of the agenda that are not discussed at the session, and the President of the Parliament decides to conclude whether it is fair, whether it is in order to enable the topics which the Government is not proposing to be discussed and the provision that those points remaining from the closed sessions at the next session must be the first, second, third, fourth, and so on. Or it will be put back on the agenda under points 92, three, four, five, 108, 115 and 120. We have offered a solution to the amendments and we are asking for points that are not discussed at the closed session to take precedence over newly arrived materials, new agenda points. Because it is not acceptable anymore, not only when the opposition proposals are at stake, that in the reports of some state bodies that submit their reports to the Assembly, we are only discussing the 2010 reports in 2013. Because most of these reports have been on the agenda for months. This is especially because we have introduced a custom that in a year we only have 3 current mornings, we have only 3 sessions, it's probably one of the reasons and motives, and in this way it makes it impossible to complete the agenda with acts that have arrived in the meantime, and the government is not a proposing. And I'll finish the next one. The provision under which the Bureau of Parliament proposes, and the parliament but without debate, writes without debate to limit the time of the debate in advance to the cynicism of democratic power. The minimum attempt of civilised relations of the ruling to the opposition is the solution that such an agreement can be reached by the presidency only at the concentration of all the clubs of MPs. This is a minimum, although under these conditions we believe that there have been significant violations of working conditions in the Assembly because this composition has started with one Rules of Procedure, the new Rules of Procedure of the Rights of Representatives, individual rights of legislators, are extremely reduced in each of those provisions, which states that only representatives clubs can participate in the debate. Wherever this provision is used, there has been a significant change in the position of the parliamentary representative, and we in the opposition have two options, act in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure, ignore this new or expose the dangers of obtaining notice and dissatisfaction from the hall because of the dissatisfaction of the ruling. We'll have to apply one of these methods because this is not the kind of Rules of Procedure we're going to put up with.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44002	Thank you very much. The next presentation will be the honorary representative of Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44003	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Despite this instant procedure, which we have not often seen in a relatively short time, two readings and a qualified debate have been held, I think we have succeeded in the intention that after the first reading, we will come up with quality solutions that will significantly improve the quality of not only the basic text from which it started but also the text that we discussed in the first reading. According to some rough record after the first reading of the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system accepted 17 very important, I would say even large suggestions and proposals that are intervened in the text in order to procedure, and the Rules of Procedure is a catalogue of our procedure significantly improved. Of course by looking at the point where the position and the point at which the opposition solutions are offered look different. Yes, the fact is that some institutes at this time seem more rigid than they used before, and then we call on the solution defined in this Rules of Procedure in connection with the government's Annual Report as if we're forgetting that he's never been so far, and that the solution that we have in this proposal, therefore, the government president's obligation to submit an annual report to this House is not in itself a huge step forward. Remember, just a few years ago, the HNS club asked the then Prime Minister to come to the Croatian Parliament and report once a year. The government in the past, despite the Parliament's acceptance of the conclusion that we have proposed, has rejected this by justifying that this conclusion has been made so that it refers solely to the former Prime Minister, which is nonsensical. We now enter this annual report institute as an obligation, but according to some rules that should not degrade or spoil this new institute that is being introduced. Hence, such a solution to speak to club representatives, hence such a solution that there is no replica, but the ipso fact is that there is no then nor a reaction of the Prime Minister to the presentation of clubs during the debate but only a final speech. I think it's a quality step and we're going to try out at the fall session for the first time in years after the government's commitment to come to this House and report on what it's doing. So far, that kind of opportunity reminds me of my opposition colleagues we haven't had. As far as the HNS Club is concerned, we have actively participated both through our representatives in the working bodies and directly in giving suggestions and objections, and since most of that is, if not all we have proposed to advance and adopt in this regard, I announce that the HNS Club will support the adoption of a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44004	Thank you very much. At your presentation, we have one replica and it is a respected representative of Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44005	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. My colleague, you said this would be good quality for a club representative to say something and that I, as a parliamentary representative, had no right to say anything. You've somehow justified that the government won't be able to talk much just through the president and that's it. Thank you very much for that. I wonder how much you don't understand things. We are a representative democracy, we speak here on behalf of the people, we represent the people, and now you want in Parliament a representative democracy through the club again. I'm not giving anyone my right to say something about what I've been elected here for. Done! Dot! It's not that, it's a step back, it's a mile back. I have the right to say everything, and I don't give it up voluntarily. And I wouldn't recommend it to you to vote because it's a step back. Because tomorrow you'll be an opposition and so on. This is one text, one law that determines the rules of the game for all of us in different positions. I don't give up my right to volunteer, and you deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44006	Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44007	Your structure at the right sight is understandable but completely illogical. So it could be a step backwards to introduce a new institute that has never existed before. It can only be a step ahead. Is he good that's another pair of sleeves. Now, if this is about the government's annual report, then it is natural for the views on the annual report to be sublimed in the positions of the parties represented in the Croatian Parliament, but this proposal allows independent representatives to say about it. That's what we haven't had yet. The other thing is that we would like to see maybe this report that we have so far not had to turn into a whole day of Parliament's party. I think that was neither the point nor the one that suggested that the future prime minister would come to this House of Commons, nor that a clear picture of what the government is thinking or doing would be taken by individual club representatives. This is how it will be concentrated to say essentially and clearly to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44008	Thank you very much. The next will be a debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure also managed to see it in a second reading within a short time. I say, unfortunately, between the two readings of our remarks, the motions were largely not accepted. It is no wonder that the parliamentary majority that defends the logic that VAT is paid according to the number of words in newspaper articles, and that is done by the Tax Administration, are likely to find such responsibilities for the customs administration and who knows who else is not. Since every day we listen to such innovative technological steps as the determination of VAT rates does not surprise any of these solutions in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, we had the best intention of making remarks in the first reading to do something that this Rules of Procedure would serve us all for better work and for working bodies and also for plenary sessions. The manuscript shall remain the same after the refusal of these objections. The manuscript is that since the beginning of this House we have been fighting for that only de facto or one of the very rare tools that we have here as agents do not kidnap us. One of the things we can do is propose in writing laws, and the other or most importantly I would almost say weapons is to represent my electoral body by speaking in the working bodies, speaking at the plenary session. Of this call of three instruments that MPs had the opportunity to use, there was only one left. You threw out the correction of the incorrect assumption because it was misused over the years as we were able to hear and that was the main argument why one of these instruments came out of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The second is an instrument that remains, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but significantly reduced in yours if you want efficiency in your application because it points us to written observations to the Committee on the Constitution, etc. then, until a long time ago, the board will decide whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured in a specific case. And the third only instrument left to the MPs every day that they can even react in this House is a replica, but the replica is experiencing, and we've heard the announcements from before, change. Changes, unfortunately, to limit not only the number of notifications but you will now limit the time available to individual representatives or clubs to have opportunities to talk about the regulations that we receive on the agenda. It is a shameless attempt by the ruling to further say I would make a completely uninteresting debate in the Parliament, if you would vulgarly castrate all MPs because you are making it impossible for them to speak, especially because their speeches often have a critical reference to what the Government is proposing. Now I'd like to go in order to re-illustrate what we tried to tell you, and you didn't want to listen. Once again, the proposals referred to in Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure as regards two categories of representatives. Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and elected representatives. Legally and logically, there is no such division within that unique institute. The Constitution does not know the Constitution knows the possibility of being chosen, which means in contrast or argument acontrario an unselected representative. You can be in accordance with our Constitution and our regulations only you can be a representative. Either you won't be because you won't be selected or you'll be a representative. The elected and unelected representatives do not exist. And this is forgive me for saying stupidly that despite this, we are pushing for terms that are neither constitutionally nor legally nor logically non-sustainable. And they were introduced to the Rules of Procedure to try to resolve the issue of the rest of the mandate of those same MPs who will be elected to the Assembly but will happen to act incompatible with the duties of MPs in the Assembly. The position of the HDZ Club is that the seat is the most important place that can happen to you in political life. That you should respect him for the fact that people chose you in that place. Many colleagues earlier, related to earlier laws, said they were extremely proud of the fact that they had become representatives of their electoral unit, their electoral bases. And that they have the opportunity to kind of verbalise everything their electoral unit thinks about in the Croatian Parliament at the time of the regulation that life depends on us all. And we are proud of the fact that we are representatives of the Croatian Parliament. And we cannot agree with the suggestion that this is a second-rate position in political life. And it's second-rate because you have to solve all the issues before you solve your parliamentary mandate. So that's how the Proposer tells you that even before you go into the election mandate, you must inform the President of the Parliament of your intention to put your mandate on hold. Notify the intention or put the mandate on hold, I don't know what the fundamental difference is. But we're still complaining to a healthy logic that you can't put into rest something that you haven't even started yet. The mandate didn't begin to run until you verified it in Parliament, so you can't even put it on hold. And if you wanted to solve this in an adequate way, you wouldn't need a crazy concept of elected MPs and MPs. We therefore again appeal to the applicants to adopt these remarks, to disown such incorrect nomotechnics because it will not help anyone. However, what I think is much more important for today's debate are articles that we talked about in the first reading that have also unfortunately not experienced any changes, this is an article of the 119th of this Rules of Procedure that tells us that once we have put the Government in place as a whole every new amendment of each minister will no longer come to the Plenary session. These people will not be discussed at the Plenary Session but will be guided by the committees responsible, so depending on which portfolio the minister would cover in the appropriate parliamentary working body would be held to discuss his appointment. And instead of 150, it will be decided by 5, 7 or 12 members of each committee. Although if the same minister is asked to vote on confidence, then if you wanted a systematic solution then it should be resolved in the same way, then it will not be decided by the board but by the plenary session. To show you how unsystematic this text has been made, if you have already wanted to give a discussion on the mandate of a particular minister, then you should have entered into each committee because the Board's tax-related affairs and the fact that they will decide on a particular minister whose portfolio is covered by this parliamentary committee. But there is no such thing in the affairs of these committees, it is not stated. Therefore, since we hold that the Assembly is a place for which the Government and each individual member of that Government are responsible, we find it unacceptable to consider a solution that transfers the jurisdiction of the plenary session to a particular parliamentary committee and simply cannot vote for such a document. Furthermore, what was also said in the first reading of Rule 128 of this Rules of Procedure we again raise to the undeserved heights of only one person, only one official in the Republic of Croatia but always the same and that is the Prime Minister. And not just any Prime Minister, because it's interesting that it's happening right now at the time of the term of office just like Zoran Milanovic. Zoran Milanovic, as Prime Minister, will address the Parliament in this reference to this article of the Rules of Procedure once a year at the beginning of the regular session of this second part of September 15th to inform him of the observed phenomena, problems and state of society, as well as the activities of the Government and would orally present to the Parliament an annual report from the Government. It would at least make sense that it's a half-yearly report if it's about that year, given that the session is in the ninth month. But regardless of what we said and in the first reading of the law, this suggests the full establishment of an office model of government. These shall be in the case of competences which have been prescribed or attached to the President of the Republic in the half-presidential and presidential systems. And we think that it is neither time nor place, nor that it is appropriate that today what should possibly belong to the President of the State by applying this Rules of Procedure and without amending the Constitution and anything else that should be preceded you are now giving as the authority of the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, time is running tirelessly, but your ideas are always new, so in this reading of this Rules of Procedure, something happened between the two readings that we didn't have the opportunity to see in the first reading but we believe that it is very dangerous and that there is an additional restriction on the right to speak in parliament. Therefore, Article 234 of the new article has been introduced which states that the Bureau of Parliament may propose that the debate on a particular topic of the agenda may take an exact time within which the applicant may speak for up to 20 minutes, and that the representative of the home working body, the representative of the Committee on Law and representatives of the other working bodies who have discussed the topic for up to 10 minutes. The remaining time is allocated to representatives' clubs in proportion to the existing assembly's composition in such a way that representatives from a particular club can not be assigned less than 15 minutes for a speech, and representatives who are not members of a particular club can speak for the longest time for 5 minutes. Decisions shall be taken by the Parliament without debate. What is most important about this decision is that instead of the time that MPs have so far had to talk about their vision of a particular topic, you have sublimed the total duration time that can be, for example, according to this proposal 3 or 4 hours in which individual debates and any replicas that MPs would have put on a particular topic. Finally, it may not be the least important, and in this regulation this time you have shown exceptional courage, and unlike the current Rules of Procedure, you would have decided to publish it in the National Journal, and it will be published in the National Journal and enter into force on 1 July 2013. If it is true that the vacacio legion of 8 days could not have been applied to the Law on the Relations of Parliament and Government because of our accession to the European Union, although we do not see any reason why three days later would not have entered into force, this argument certainly does not apply to the Rules of Procedure, and if a little correctness exists with the promoters then it would be at least time to leave an 8-day deadline for meeting the rules published in the National Journal. Unfortunately, time doesn't allow me to present everything I intended on behalf of the club, and I want to say what my colleague Lesar said. If you insist on this text, we will be forced to follow the provisions of the old Rules of Procedure on which we have calculated that we will work and when we move into elections. Based on this Rules of Procedure, it is simply impossible to work in a democratic way in the Croatian Parliament. The HDZ will surely be against this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44010	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused three replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44011	Dear colleague Mlakar, it's hard not to agree with you. I will read Article 234 in this sea of arguments which you have stated against this anti-democratic Rules of Procedure in each line, in the ear and legisl, the legislator, and perhaps the people understand what kind of authority they are dealing with. The 234th article reads: The Bureau of the Assembly may propose that the debate on a particular topic of the agenda may take an exact time within which the applicant may speak for up to 20 minutes, and a representative of the home working body, a representative of the Committee on Law and representatives of the other working bodies who have discussed the topic for a maximum period of 10 minutes. The remaining time is allocated to representatives' clubs in proportion to the existing assembly's composition in such a way that representatives from a particular club can not be assigned less than 15 minutes for a speech, and representatives who are not members of a particular club can speak for a maximum of 5 minutes. The decision set out in this article shall be taken by the Parliament without debate. This abolishes all rights so far because the Bureau of Parliament can decide on any item of the agenda as it says, most of them, only if a consensus is put on all the club representatives then it can. This article makes no sense to any other article which determines the rights of parliamentary representatives. This article wouldn't be ashamed of Ceasescu, he's dead, so I won't call him and I won't call him Lukashenko, and... there's just a mustache missing. This is terrifying, this is what you have abolished democracy, this is what you have brought to Parliament. After this, if Article 234 is applied, the Assembly does not make sense, so you have abolished freedom in Croatia. Well, this is terrible, this is scary, this is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44012	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44013	Thank you very much, colleague Vuksic, for agreeing, although there is now a colleague Stazic and that would be a problem, and I mention his name because he announced exactly what happened. We're told you're not disciplined enough, it doesn't match the parliamentary majority's hearings, otherwise, and especially not critical opinions, so when we can't fully take your word we'll limit the time as much as possible. This is a shameful attempt to destroy any critical thought or spoken word in parliament, I have already said. What I would like to stress again, we will not work towards the provisions of this Rules of Procedure because as we moved into the elections, other rules were in force. We've agreed to say that because of the majority of the Parliament, we're not talking about the dictatorship. The reduction of the right of individual representatives by justifying it to some other reasons that the majority of parliament said when it abolished some of the instruments we had at our disposal, and this is now one step away from being told by the police. Then why do you need a parliament? You're enough for yourself. You've had enough of the opposition and the citizens. They'll be here for that bill soon. But this way, not if it's near Ceaucecsu, I'd say it's much closer to North Korea than most people think it should work in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44014	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Mlakar, therefore, this article 128 and 129 most clearly state that the ruling majority want one man to be raised to the heights at which no other politician in the Republic has been, no matter what many have called it either way. But look at the Prime Minister coming to this House once a year, telling us what's been going on over the past year, he's been talking for an hour. But MPs have no right to discuss it, they do not have the right to replicate. You can say something in 20 minutes on behalf of the club and that'll be all. But when you add up all the opposition clubs, when you add it up here, and it doesn't say in Article 129 that the Prime Minister can't report by the terms of this Rules of Procedure, and he has the right to do so after every club speech for five minutes and then 20 minutes. So this man can just do whatever he wants, but God forbid a minister from his government says something he doesn't like. He is automatically dissatisfied with the answer, rises up and starts as he asked President-in-Office of the Parliament of the Rules of Procedure, starts telling that minister that he's talking nonsense, that he can't speak. But if he was treating his ministers like that, and we saw in the election of a new tourism minister where he just told him you didn't have anything to answer those questions, that's enough. Therefore, we are clearly indicated that this will be a parade of one man. Just watch, those parades cost us dearly. The question is who will come to the celebration of Croatia's entry into the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44016	Thank you very much. Your line will be answered by the distinguished representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44017	Dear counterpart Shuker, the Prime Minister said on several occasions that some of his regulations were stupid, that they were not good, and then we witnessed that soon after that statement, those regulations were changing. We also heard that it should not be allowed to object in the electoral procedure for counting votes again because it was foolish for the Prime Minister. I believe that by the next election and the ability to control the electoral votes will also fall away. Today, you have heard from that same Prime Minister, but not where we were looking for him, but through the media to get political parties, to get in the way of the unsanitary and to say that he took over the good part of the judiciary, because he knows who he's going to sue, who he's going to sue, who he's going to take on and who's going to be involved in certain trials. It is only a reflection of what he managed to achieve here in the Croatian Parliament that we must carry out such ideas, that we consciously reduce our ability to act so as to raise one man because he sees himself in a special light and probably thinks he has special merits that give him the right to adapt to his needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44018	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed MPs, Đurjice Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Mlakar, here is what this Rules of Procedure could call the Rules of Procedure on the abolition of the freedom of speech of parliamentary representatives and the silent elimination of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Because here's the prime minister and the president of the SDP has concluded that his obedient SDP deputies are so obedient that they have nothing to say and they're silent all the time in the Parliament, and we'll probably think of it, so at the entrance when we register, they'll share our dose of Band-Aids that we'll put on our mouths, and that's what he thinks, that's how we'll join his praises to ourselves. But I'm as sure as you said it won't be like that and it won't be as long as he thinks it will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44020	And the esteemed representative of Davor's Jr. will answer. Oh, no? It's not. I was under the impression that you'd been lifted. Okay. Thank you very much. We're going to the next club. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, the exhibition will be shared by the distinguished representative Salapic and the esteemed representative Vinkovic. And it looks like it's just you. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44021	Thank you very much, Vice President. We quickly received the Final Proposal of the Rules of Procedure for a re-debate, so part of the comments that I will make on behalf of the HDSSB Club will be repeated in relation to what we said first. The most important and crucial thing is that it is not good that we get back on the benches, because the vast majority of our remarks, arguments and reasons why we support or do not support, unfortunately, is not accepted. And what we said today is all connected, this debate takes a long time. It is a bit chambery, and it should not be because these are important questions for the work of the Croatian Parliament in the time ahead which is very important for the political and any other future of our country. So when the opposition discusses with itself, when we comment with ourselves and ruling not much about it, then the meaning of this debate is lost in general because knowing that everything proposed will not be accepted. It's not very good for some high degree of democracy. What in the part where we said we should be particularly concerned about is these questions about the article 119th appointment of a subsequent appointment of a member of the government, so the minister at which we no longer speak, is to be discussed here at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, but on that parent board, which, by its own means, belongs. It is true that the committee will have a debate on this, but we think it is a very important issue, that it is the same as the appointment of a new government after the elections in Parliament, so I think the same rules should apply in this case. So that a debate on the appointment of a new minister should be held in the Croatian Parliament. This is an important issue, primarily for the functioning of the government but also for those policies and for that portfolio, which will lead the future candidate for the minister. To not say a word here in this House, we think it's not good, and we're sorry it's not accepted. Because we have advocated that there is still a need for debate in the Assembly on such an important issue. We supported in front of the HDSSB club that the Prime Minister speaks to the Croatian Parliament once a year. We do not view this as bad even as necessary, and we have suggested this before this Rules of Procedure was spoken of because what the Prime Minister is answering to the questions of MPs and MPs at the current afternoon is already a little bit known as what it looks like and all of this is for the purpose of some kind of response which we can already say is that in advance and knows what is going to be said in each question. Unfortunately, that's not accepted either. It is not accepted that we have suggested that the Prime Minister should address the Croatian Parliament but that this is being discussed. This is what the club representatives will talk about in that time of 15 minutes and an explanation, the explanation is that then they will get the impression that every policy, every party, every club of representatives has given their opinion on the political meaning of the government's work and action regarding the report that will be given by the Prime Minister to the Croatian Parliament. This may be in one part and so, but in the other part, the debate on this, the width of the debate, the involvement of the representatives in the debate, that is, may be longer, but much more meaningful and more important because then the meaning of a quality debate is obtained. We cannot accept that it is not accepted in this final bill of law. As far as Article 234 is concerned, whoever has now come up with this and changed this final proposal of the Rules of Procedure, we believe that he made a big mistake because there may have been some intention which is a good intention but the way of good intentions we know where he was paved. That's not good. It is not good to limit the debate in this overall time limit, because if you are going to ask the question then the purpose of this debate in the Croatian Parliament is really lost, and I am sure and firmly believe that this is not the intention of the Proposer of this Rules of Procedure to restrict the debate in this way because it is then that the general Croatian Parliament, one democratic debate and a different opinion is lost. In a different opinion, the opinion of an opposition that will sometimes not agree with the majority's opinion with the government can only contribute to improving the quality of our government and ministers in the government. Most parliaments are firm, we understand, we have determined this after the election who has the majority and who will be responsible for the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but also who will also be responsible for the citizens. Because what the government should do after the elections is therefore a firm responsibility to the citizens and responsibility for any policy that has been promised in both the election campaign and the post-election campaign. And what remains on the MPs, that each of us on behalf of the club, was individually in his discussions representing the interests of his constituents, his constituency, his city, his municipalities, his place of residence. So that's what's left of us. And it is our responsibility to speak in the House what our voters expect us to do, which is to represent the interests of the end from which we come. If, in any form by any law, this debate will be limited to the debate of the MPs, then we take that democracy to the least possible extent possible and I believe and I will repeat I am sure that in the context of our full membership in the EU, it was certainly not the proposal's intention and this article should therefore be corrected by the amendments until the vote. We are ready to support everything that is good, which comes from the proposings, and we are sure that better changes can be made in this article 234. We welcome this article 66. The Rules of Procedure, which regulates this issue, calls for representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament. This goes in the context of what we have discussed about this law that was in relation to the Parliament and the Government, which is why representatives from the European Parliament will be invited, which will, in addition to the current composition of the Committee on European Affairs, be given different competences in this Rules of Procedure to contribute to the quality of the work of the Committee on European Affairs. That's good for this Rules of Procedure. We also support these nomotechnical changes that have been made compared to the first reading. A different competence and greater powers of the Committee on Law are also needed in the context of the changes we wanted with this Rules of Procedure. We can also support changes in the responsibilities of the Committee on Economy when it comes to consumer protection which is one of the important policy issues in the EU institutions. Unfortunately, on these 3, 4 questions, we are breaking and we cannot give our support. I believe that, given the 7 votes, this does not mean much to the ruling coalition, but surely we should accept some arguments because if, with a consensus on some important issues, and these are the most important issues for the functioning of the Parliament, then we can agree on all the virtue of democracy in Croatia, then we are really on the right track to become the right European country. It should also be acknowledged that those original announcements and the abolition of the correction of the incorrect allegation were intended to end the unnecessary debates and perhaps the abuse of that institute that was, but by introducing instead of correcting the incorrect allegations of replication and extending the time of replicas to 2 minutes, the answers for another 2 minutes I think that only needlessly delaying the debate so that the correction of the incorrect quote as one institute remained I think that we would shorten the debate, speed up the dynamics, we had a more life-saving work of the Parliament, not such a chamber atmosphere. And this is how we repay the debate with these changes, and then we want to fix it with this Article 234, and I think we're totally going the wrong way. Here, we call on the Proposer, given that there are here solutions which are supportive and which are to be accepted in view of the work of the Parliament that is expected in the time ahead, but given these key things, so Article 119 and Article 234 will not support this final proposal of the Rules of Procedure unless we reach an agreement on this until the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44022	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused three replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44023	Dear counterpart Salapic, you probably didn't remember, so I will repeat that in this insidious anti-terrorist act, and the anti-terrorist act is because the minority terrorises the majority in the 234th article, "The Bureau of the Parliament may suggest that the debate on a particular topic of the agenda may take a specific time within which the applicant can speak for up to 20 minutes. The rest of the time is deployed to representatives' clubs in proportion to the existing assembly's composition in such a way that representatives from a particular club cannot be determined less than 15 minutes for speech. The decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall be taken by the Parliament without debate, and the time of the speech of those 15 minutes shall be used by the MPs in a manner which they shall determine." Thank you so much for not telling us how we're gonna figure it out for 15 minutes. Let's just ask ourselves, what's the SDP doing to the silent majority of two, three hours? In those two, three hours, I'm guessing he'll be reading panegirics to the great leader. What we're going to do for 2, 3 hours or we don't need to use that time that's determined by the clubs. This suspension of speech in the Assembly was made because the government is afraid of every criticism. The government fears the truth, and the government fears what we say every day in the Parliament. For what? Because it's a failure, because every day it loses and there's not one answer to a single key question in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44024	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Salapic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44025	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Vuksic, you reiterated this article in the 234th, and I also read it well, and I spoke about it in the debate. The intention is certainly what we have said, and this is that the first amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the abolition of the incorrect allegations were intended to shorten the debate in the Assembly and probably achieve some better dynamics of the work of the Parliament, and then, in time, as time passed before us and laws that were very important and important were seen to be delayed for several hours, at 5, 6 hours and whoever proposed this Article 234 certainly wanted to jump to that between correcting the incorrect allegations and replication or enjoying the debates of the ruling coalition that are unnecessary to shorten that time of discussion and introduce such an article of the Rules of Procedure which is not only democracy, not only the right to speak but rather than something else. Then it should have been fair to admit that that correction of the incorrect allegations was a good institute so we can get it back, that we can. The debate was more dynamic, and if we look at the previous assembly's heart-to-heart, and now we see that the quality of the debate has fallen to one big zero, because when you have silence on one side, it is clear that most in the Parliament will support their government and will support the laws and proposals and solutions proposed by the Government, it is not against it. But when there's nothing to talk about and when we've been talking about as an opposition here in Parliament for a long time we've been talking to ourselves, it's completely losing the meaning of every debate, and that's the way a quiet silence wants to kill itself, actually, that speech in the Parliament. And if no one responds to what you say, if you have no answer whether you are on the right track with your arguments, then you lose your sense of self that we have said what our contribution is to it. I am for the debate to be dynamic that the assembly benches are full to hear opinions from the left and right and the independent so that we can all make the best possible solution together in terms of what our citizens expect, but it is good or bad that will be shown in the next elections where voters will decide who in the Assembly really represented the interests of their people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44026	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44027	Limited debate on some agenda points is a practice, for example, in the Slovenian National Assembly. It is a practice in the EU to parliament. Are these two institutions non-democratic? Is that South Korea? There is no debate in the United States after the president's report. Is the United States a non-democratic state? And at the end of all things, you are right in court about you, and about us, they will give the public that, unlike us, they will give the court and the State's Attorney's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44028	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Salapic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad to see that you, on this side of the ruling people, have taken up a line and said a word about what I was saying on behalf of the HDSB Representatives Club, I'm just sorry that you didn't say anything at all that I was really saying. I believe that we as the Croatian Parliament do not need to call on anyone and nothing to be explained in the arguments of arguments. We need to bring a Rules of Procedure which will primarily serve us representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, and indirectly to Croatian citizens who expect us to work effectively in Parliament. We are witnesses, and I don't know which country we have seen ourselves seeing as our assembly benches in the most important issues and laws that are of interest to Croatian citizens, let's just say last week about a mandatory insurance law that we have discussed in the House 15, 16 of us. So we ourselves send the wrong picture to the Croatian public and contribute ourselves to giving the most negative reviews to the Croatian Parliament. There are instruments in our hands in which we will work best, and in that part we do not need to imitate anyone. We have had our long-standing work of the Croatian Assembly through history it is not difficult to follow or not follow but I am sure and I do not know that you were not an agent in the past meeting that the last assembly meeting was much more dynamic and that the debate was much more constructive and much more quality regardless of some sometimes raised tones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44030	Thank you very much. And the next line will have a distinguished representative for Davor Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44031	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Salapic, I would say that I commended your calming tone and your exposure that went in some way in favour of the promoters accepting if something was said more calmly, which perhaps if it was a little bit more emotional, is more difficult to accept. But to be honest, I listened carefully to your presentations, I didn't fully understand. You said in a way that it was a good fact that some of the instruments that were available to the MPs were kicked out of the Rules of Procedure, now you're saying that there were much more dynamic discussions before they had those instruments at their disposal. Not to say that the ruling size at that time was very well involved in using here I will not take another term, these same instruments that she has now deleted from the Rules of Procedure. But I didn't understand whether you were actually to reduce the right especially to limit your speech to clubs and the total amount of time that can be spent at the debate at the Assembly on a certain point or whether you are as a club harshly against such practice that we are now prescribed in this first wave how much we can speak. The next step is the only one I want to wait for when we're still being prescribed what we can say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44032	Thank you very much. That's what we're with. I'm sorry, you answered, it's true, it's true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44033	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Mlakar, I think my dying tone might have put you to sleep, so if I had been yelling there, it might have been better. I did not say that I was in favour of abolishing those institutes, correcting the incorrect allegations and injuring the Rules of Procedure according to previous solutions, but I said that the proposer's intention was to abolish those institutes to give some new institutes as a new form of replica we got and that this should be better than before. I said exactly what you just said, we're on the same path, thinking, I said that with these replicas we didn't achieve anything but just needlessly repay the debate and this article 234 came up as a solution that should change everything that's completely wrong. So we're on the same path as thinking about Article 234 of the Institute... At the disposal of the representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm certainly one of those guys who, I don't think there's any sense in the Parliament that some big noise and yelling won't contribute to anything. I am for a peaceful and constructive debate, for a consensus on national issues. And when we need to divide to the left and the right, then we know what the themes are. If these topics, topics around, such as this morning about the relations between the Parliament and the Government, are in the terms of our membership in the European Union, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which we should therefore act in new circumstances when, since Monday 1 July, I am sure, I am here for consensus and for a dying tone. If it is what happened this morning, the lack of Angela Merkel's approach to our attitude and our relationship to the European Union, then I am in favour of a party. So, I'm for assessing the situation... The way to then here are using the instruments that are available. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44034	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat. On behalf of the SDSS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I am also on behalf of the SDSS Club and the first reading I have said some, a few references to the first text of this, the proposal of this Rules of Procedure. So now I'm going to say a little bit shorter than I think it's necessary to point out about this final text because besides that text will probably be adopted on Friday and he is who he is. It's ours, it's ours to say our vision of this problem. First of all, with all due respect to the motion of a colleague who, in front of the Committee, explained his views, views, reasons and motives for bringing this Rules of Procedure, I still cannot be taken by some impression that after these, this Law which we have discussed today is the relationship between the Government and the Parliament and this Rules of Procedure as a technical matter and 1. The 7th entry into the European Union will no longer be the same. So, even the position of the Parliament, this High House will not be the same as it's been so far. It's kind of my impression, it's getting lost, no matter how much we accept it or not, but from these texts of legal and solution in these texts it's given to read. The committees are strengthening, the Parliament is marginalizing in some way,... and in public perception and marginalized but also defacto marginalized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, here it was about the loss of sovereignty, probably the loss of a part of sovereignty. The rights of MPs in the individual debate have been significantly reduced. We have practically questioned the logic of a basic tool of parliamentaryism and that is public speech. This has been so since the parliaments of ancient, Roman parliamentaryism existed until today. So, speech is the main tool of Parliament. So, we see that Croatia's entry into the European Union changes the position of the Parliament, the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs will become the central body for the implementation of European affairs. Therefore, he will gain more meaning than we can read from this text. And part of the legislative activity the Parliament is transferring to the government. The Government shall send legislative proposals of the European Union and its views to the Parliament and the Parliament, within a certain period of time, its opinion to the Government. So the entire activity is central activity going on in the government. That is why, in the first reading, we also told some of our thoughts and suggestions where we said it was necessary to oblige the Government to deliver all legislative proposals, other acts and views to the Parliament, and to prescribe and set deadlines for these activities so that the Parliament could monitor and monitor the activities of the Government in the EU Council. The Council should, in any case, deliver binding opinions to the Government through the EU Affairs Committee. In the end, it is so arranged and in other EU countries, so these provisions have been incorporated into their rules of procedure. We've had a series of proposals to correct certain members, some proposals have been adopted, some haven't. We felt that the adoption of the annual work plan should be corrected. In one part of the proposal was adopted, however, when it comes to the weekly session, we still see that we have not defined how one session's schedule should be defined at the beginning of the working week, but the possibility of changing it every day is shown in practice that it is not the happiest solution. In the interpretations, one part of our suggestions was accepted because we pointed out that at those three steps, and with all the time limits for the implementation of the interpretation, it would wait for the interpretation from 4 to 6 months. I think this solution that's been offered here in this final text... that possibility has been somewhat avoided. It is quite correct to accept our suggestion to extend in one part the competence of the Committee on Foreign Policy and I am glad that the Proposer has accepted our suggestions in the sense that the Committee on Foreign Policy should be as significant as the EU Affairs Committee. I would also join my colleagues in thinking practically about the criticism of Article 234 that we do not repeat ourselves but we definitely think that it is not happy, and also a skillful solution to model this strongest weapon of representatives, which is the right to a word of speech. So limiting this right, as stated in Article 234 of course, is not a happy solution for us in this Rules of Procedure. Similarly, Article 119 remained unchanged on its basis although we felt that it should be corrected in the section when it comes to the subsequent appointment of a member of the Government or the Minister. The motion remains at the point of view that, in the case of the subsequent appointment of a member of the Government, the debate on the proposed candidate is being held in the working body of the Assembly. We suggested we think that the debate should be held at the plenary session and that it must be led at the club level if not by individual debate, but we reject it. But it's an interesting explanation that it's been rejected. So Article 119 in its reasoning, the Government opens three questions and defines in fact its essence of the government's relationship with the Parliament. In the first part of the argument, she says the regulation of the provision will allow for a debate on the proposed candidate by the professional public. The question arises, therefore, what is the expert public and the question is whether it is more competent for the professional public to assess the work of the future minister than it is for Parliament's representatives or one logical question, how it is possible for the professional public to make an assessment of the ability of the future minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and these are not in the position of parliamentary representatives. The other thing is that it will also enable any representative who wishes to participate in the debate to do so. It's possible this theoretically written, practically. I ask the question how will he be able to attend the committee meeting of 150 representatives? How will all 150 committee representatives be able to attend, to ask questions from the minister, and to have the minister answer, so the future minister responds to these MPs? I think it's almost an impossible mission, but that's an official explanation. The third point of the reasoning of Article 119 is that this strengthens the role of the working bodies of the Parliament which are now becoming the central place in which so-called ‘the Council’ is carried out. The hearing of future members of the government. I don't think we should comment on this in particular, so we're just confirming this thesis that we said and I don't think it's good, so it's empowering the committee's role. It needs to be strong, each committee needs to be competent, to be trained, to be strong but not stronger than the Parliament, not stronger than parliamentary representatives, not more powerful than parliamentary parties' clubs. So that is another confirmation of the marginalization of the Parliament in this Rules of Procedure. We still think that the ministers of the future ministers should review how it says so here, listen at the Parliament plenary session at least at the level of parliamentary parties' clubs if not in individual debates. And another thing that I would refer to here is Article 66, Article 65 has been defined by the Committee on European Affairs as the most important committee of course from the section of the prescribed business is that this is the future most important committee in the work of the Parliament." The Committee on European Affairs has a president, two vice-presidents and 14 other members, and another 6 members are appointed from the ranks of public, scientific and professional employees" I said in the last debate that, we think it is necessary to define in Article 66 a clearer position of members of the National Minority Club in this Committee. In this regard, we have also addressed an amendment that should read: "The Committee on European Affairs has a president, two vice presidents and 14 members. One representative of the National Minority Club and six other members is appointed from the ranks of public, health and professional staff.". We think, since this is the biggest, most important Committee, will obviously be the largest party combination in this Committee. Obviously, the main interest of the parties will also be for membership in the Committee, it is good that both professional and scientific staff are present. But it is also good that in this Committee at least one member of 14 of them should be a representative of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities. Because of all the future issues that are going to happen, because of all the future relationships. And precisely because it is the committee that will be most attractive, where there will also be the most inter-party combinations and negotiations we think one place should be defined for the benefit of one representative of the National Minority Club. Not prejudicing who would be from any party option. This would therefore be left at the disposition of the National Minority Representatives Club, which would then be proposed in those 14 permanent members by one of its representatives. That's what we're thinking. We're sorry she probably won't be adopted. We think if this thought were accepted that this Rules of Procedure would be better. So we're thinking, how are we going to stand up when we vote on this Rules of Procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44036	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44037	Dear fellow Horvat, I hope you will take the view that you cannot oppose your opinion if it does not respect your opinions you cannot vote for that Rules of Procedure which do not respect your opinions. Because it's the whole Rules of Procedure that's talking about not respecting parliamentary deputies. And you, Mr. Horvat, have referred to Article 234. Perhaps colleagues in the position did not remember this article, so I will read again: "The Bureau of Parliament may suggest that the debate on a particular topic of the agenda may take an exact time within which the applicant can speak for more than 20 minutes, the remaining time is allocated to representatives' clubs in proportion to the existing assembly's composition in such a way that representatives from a particular club cannot be determined less than 15 minutes of speech. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The time of speech can be used by MPs in a way that determines for themselves.". However, it is not only that, before you saw and should have the chairman react when a representative of the government threatened here in the Parliament which is a huge mistake, he threatened the DORH. I don't know who he was referring to, I'd like to DORH... Takes care of the laborists, said you'll be followed by the DORH anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, Mr. Chairman, I'm protesting this, so not only will they suspend our speech but they'll send us to the door and the police, so the police will scare us so that we don't accidentally dare stand before the Parliament or leave the Assembly, we'll have to sit here because they'll threaten us with the DORH. This is invisible. I mean that way to talk to the opposition, no matter who our laborers were referring to, to the HDSSB, because I guess his colleagues were replicating, he was looking at me. Or HDZ. So everything that's written is much worse than what it says. A lot worse intentions have this power.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44038	Thank you very much. We would now move on to the next Club and this is SDP Representatives' Club and on behalf of the Club will speak to the esteemed representative Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44039	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament are a great responsibility to all of us. It's one of the few acts where we have to come up with a concept ourselves and agree on provisions, agree on what we're going to regulate. There are no other promoters here. It's an act that we do for ourselves. It's an act that determines our basic relations. Please. What has certainly become quite visible in this case is that there is no complete agreement. But allow me, so it's a very natural part of one debate and process. Here it was said to destroy the debate but the debate was very much and the criticism was very difficult even the hard words, the criticisms were used. As a result, I have no doubt that the future practice, even after the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, will be a very lively debate with the opinions and many actions and behaviours that someone in this assembly will not, of course, approve. But that's exactly what the Rules of Procedure of Parliament is about to discuss those things that, despite our considerations and differences in interests and political views, will be a common denominator of the true... Which we'll stick to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let me point out some things about that. First of all, praise should be given to those who have worked most on the Rules of Procedure. Because look, we have two chapters in an explanation that talk about a large number of remarks that have been made after the first reading. A colleague from the HNS listed 17 of the 14 who were adopted. And these are far-reaching and important remarks. One large part of the remarks was not adopted between me and mine. Please, but I consider this an integral part of the debate where the proposings have shown that they want to meet, understand the reasons and respect the arguments of those who have been for or against something. The agreement therefore sets out a different consensus and mutual understanding of the assumptions of each such act. The Rules of Procedure are based not on what is written on paper but on what we as advocates show by our conduct. And for this reason, the criticisms concerning the Rules of Procedure are mostly not about the current or future Rules of Procedure but about what the people here are said to see in our behaviour from empty benches to boastiness, cruelty or actually lack of arguments. But I say this in the context of commendation to those who have respected some and rejected other remarks. It was that there were heavy criticisms and hard words of course that the process continued. But allow us to praise one important thing, the main motive for amending the Rules of Procedure was a very significant or very significant change that takes place within a few days of Croatia's entry into the EU. Since legislative activity in the EU is exceptional, we must find mechanisms and ways of a flexible, reasonable, legitimate response to that fact. It is difficult to task the Parliament's plenary to deal with all European affairs but I do not want to discuss now what was the previous debate but here the formation of a new committee with very strong powers is actually a delegated responsibility of the Assembly is one of the important things even the main part of this Rules of Procedure. I regret, therefore, that there were more or less justified remarks first, and these praises remained unmarked. Corrections in the Committee's activities I think are the result of the experience that in another, better way can regulate their jurisdiction. But it's interesting that the fact that the board was resuscitated didn't come across a confession. The committees have a large number of sessions, not only because of a large number of laws to be processed but also often I would say the preferred practices of thematic sessions and this is not so seen in this Rules of Procedure but the correction of jurisdiction points in this direction. The most debates here have caused two things. One thing is what is called an emphasis on the office principle here, and the other is called asphyxiation of freedom of debate in the Parliament. With regard to the report of the Prime Minister, it is indeed necessary to start from the fact that such obligations have not been made so far. It's not an opportunity... for the Prime Minister to show his power it's the opposite. An opportunity for this House to discuss his responsibilities. Now you're going to say but this debate is limited, is it must be reasoned must be focused on what is said, not on all the subjects of the debate that may appear to us. There are no individual debates, so that is because the experience that is passed on from other homes of similar parliaments here is that it is a moment of great responsibility indeed once a solemn moment, and then the debate and understanding of it is not the level to be achieved there. As for the fact that it has shown and spoken about that it would be better if the President of the Republic spoke about the state of the nation, I share one such opinion but this is about progress in quite concrete relations between the Government and the Parliament. How many times has the prime minister been asked to come here, so let him come, be obliged to do so in this Rules of Procedure and to do so in a rather long statement that those basics of state in Croatia and on the business plans of his government. When it comes to this article 119, I cannot fully agree with Mr Horvat or those who think that the debate on new ministers should be conducted exclusively on the tide. We have quite a good practice that committees have been very contentiously discussed with candidates for different functions, and that just 151 MPs will appear at a committee meeting I think is unrealistic. But even then she can be held here. What would be very important, however, is that this debate focuses on the quality of these candidates and what they need to do. And committees are working bodies that cover a certain area is then a natural place for such a debate. Finally, no one will take away the right of the assembly to decide who will be the minister or his recall. Article 234 has caused many misunderstandings, perhaps because this article represents a certain calling for abuse, but each majority in the Assembly must have the wisdom not to abuse, and almost every provision can be misused by a provision that leaves some possibility. The limit of the debate as provided for in Article 234 of Mr Vuksic's quotes several times already implies one self-restriction and the wisdom of those who lead the Parliament not to apply such measures to what are the most important issues for which a mature one is an extended and long debate. But the fact that we have empty benches and poor participation tells us that there are other issues that the Parliament decides on but for which there is no interest in participating in the debate, but it has in deciding. And let me finish with one thesis that I started with. The authorities here are afraid of criticism and therefore the provision of Article 234. The government should be seeking criticism but it is very abundantly gaining in this hall. It is not easy to deal with such active representatives who have many objections to legal texts. It is even less difficult to answer even less under difficult conditions of social and economic crisis on issues concerning the general state or general policy in the Republic of Croatia. But gentlemen of the debate has a great deal to do with it, and it will be. Wisdom would be to focus it on channels of normal debate in the Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And by the way, let me say it. I do not agree with the fact that the debates have been extended because we have changed the Rules of Procedure and cast out the corrections of the incorrect allegations and so on. We, by the lines, indeed have rectifications of the quote. But the point is that in replica, one who claims something has the right to answer that question. The reply to the replica is indeed a real instrument of debate in the Parliament. So the replicas will be, the debate will be and the Rules of Procedure hopefully will serve its purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44040	Thank you very much. Here's how you ended up with the replica, and we have one replica on your exhibit. And that's the esteemed representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44041	Your Honor, Mr. Craiger. With most of your debates, I can agree. With one part no, you said every authority must have the wisdom not to abuse the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So then you said the government should be looking for criticism. Obviously, this provision 234 will be misused because it would not be inside and that is what Vice-President Mr. Stazic announced. I would pray when we compare ourselves with other democracies to compare everything else in these democracies with how long they cut their grass and how they treat the opposition in these parliaments. We take out only one piece of information and we say but they have it, and then we say it's the same with them, but they have five times the pay, but that's not what we're talking about. So article 234 that I'm not going to quote now makes it impossible for clubs to discuss. Clubs get, they say, no less than 15 minutes. So 15.5 we can get. Do you think you can have a quality debate in 15 minutes, say, I'll take an example. Our club that has six MPs, that six MPs can discuss a particular topic. And isn't this practice you're experiencing in this House, as a man who's impartially on SDP's list, that you haven't convinced yourself that a hundred times he's been abused, say, by the Institute of Emergency Procedure, who shouldn't have been. That the laws that had the EU mark were misused, so the law changed in those things in which it was not meant to be under that label. So we have the right to suspect that this Law will be misused because we are forced to do so by bad practice in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44042	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Josip Kregar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44043	I'll start as you do first with what I agree with. And that's that it's not good from any other person's experience to extract only one element and consider it strong evidence. In the Danish Parliament, representatives are not debated but party representatives, exclusively clubs. That's not good for me. Of course, that's where I agree. As for the fact, however, that we have a certain solution that can be misused. Well, I almost don't think of a provision that couldn't be misused in some way. But you should read it the way it says. It should be read that the 234th article you have quoted so many times is not mandatory but is the possibility of the Parliament's presidency to rationalise the debate. It's mine, it's... Yeah, yeah, uh... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My hope is that this will not be misused. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't underestimate my hope because I don't think it's wise, you might find it more difficult to use such a provision because it is too important for the overall functioning of the Parliament. Let it be used in trivial things but not in your discussions. That was what I wanted to point out. As for the practice of passing the Law on an urgent procedure, that I am not delighted and in the ports and practices, and I am afraid that it really leads to the speedy changes in the laws already passed and the decline of the overall quality. But I think this government has found itself in a rather difficult situation that has to bring in a large number of acts in a short time. That it is in the distance between what is being made of it and that is speed, it expects what it can offer as a quality legislative proposal. But that's why we're here as agents not to vote for what's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44044	Thank you very much. The next debate on behalf of the Club will be on behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44045	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is a very interesting debate on the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and of course it always has the attributes of a good political debate. I will not enter any battles that started here after this pay phone because I would rather concentrate on concrete repairs or those elements which are in the interest of the Croatian party of pensioners. They are related to the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership to try to correct certain illogicalities, i.e. to correct certain illogicalities through amendments in other paragraphs, i.e. articles of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm going to start by trying to explain the amendments, starting with the amendment to Article 40 where we use the word "worker" and it would be right in paragraph 5, and it would be right to speak in accordance with the Law on civil servants and tenants to talk about civil servants and tenants, not employees. Also in Article 41, not through coefficients and the mention of coefficients, in any way, indirectly regulates the increase in the salary of the secretary and the deputy secretary, and they are equated with regard to the rights with the representatives who have the position of the president and vice-president of the working body in the Croatian Parliament. I wouldn't mind if we changed the concept, and if someone was first elected to the Croatian Parliament, so that he would become his deputy, and he would become a secretary or a deputy, so we can talk about this kind of mere equation seems inappropriate to me, and it's especially inappropriate at the moment when everyone gets paid and we raise someone. Furthermore, in Article 52, where the involvement of the organisation and experts in the work of the Working Body of the Assembly is envisaged, we propose to delete this for one reason why financial resources should be provided. Whether it will be a special item in the budget or the budget of the Croatian Parliament, but one thing is certain. Since Article 52 of these financial resources will not be available, we will not be able to include scientific and other organisations and individual experts in the preparation of the acts by means of funding, i.e. by paying. But we suggest that it is simply deleted because there are too few objective criteria to establish this, in order to determine the need to engage scientific and other organisations and individual experts. And secondly, we have a lack of financial resources, and then it says as an alternative, and it can be suggested to the government that these transactions be entrusted to the ministries and other state administration bodies. It can always do that. So, there is always the possibility that the Parliament should request an opinion on a particular issue from the ministries and other bodies of the state administration. That the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament will not be limited to the influence of the professional public if I delete this article is spoken of in Article 57 where the working body of the Croatian Parliament can invite public, scientific, professional and other persons to attend meetings to obtain their opinion on the topics discussed at the session. If someone really cares about certain matter being shown in the light in which it is, if the correct interpretation of a particular problem is, then they will be sure that both scientific and professional and public persons will respond to such a call, because the Croatian Parliament does not have such a low position in the Croatian public as we often want to show ourselves. I think that every professional and public person is honored to be honored if the individual body is a single body, the working body of the Croatian Parliament is invited to express its opinion on a particular problem in some way. The only thing we offer in this article 57 is an amendment to talk about public, scientific, professional, and other people, not employees. So the amendment is also of a formal nature. Furthermore, we have an amendment to Article 83. So I said in advance that this is in the interest of the Croatian party of pensioners because it is part of the work of the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. And we suggest that the work is very precise, therefore unmistakable and that it is part of the circle, so that the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership is a parent working body in areas related to employment, labour and labour and labour law status of employees in the public and private sector of pension insurance, labour protection, social dialogue and social partnership. So, 4 sub-items but 4 very comprehensive and very important sub-assemblies with that we suggest that next amendments throw out some things that are now written, which is a housing policy that definitely belongs. It may partly be part of the work of this Committee, but only in the question of how many average salaries it takes to secure the housing, solve the housing problem of workers or how much the cost of dwellings collects the cost of living. But we believe that this housing policy would belong more to the Committee on Construction, possibly to the Committee on Regional Development, but possibly also to the Committee on Social Policy. So I have asked here to edit this article 83rd and the other presidents of the working bodies so that the board presidents can meet from both the position and the opposition to try to disintegrate this knot. I've been given positive evidence somewhere, somewhere I haven't, but that's what I'd like to throw out, or formulate it better. So we would like, in this way, to amend Article 85, so the Committee on Health and Social Policy of Explicate to say that a new subparagraph is added 4. which would read the rights of persons with disabilities. Why? Because the rights of persons with disabilities are within the scope of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, they therefore do not belong within the scope of this Committee. Namely, only those rights that arise from the working status of disabled workers, professional rehabilitation, the right to a disability pension are therefore inappropriate and discriminatory especially to single out the rights of disabled people because we do not, for example, single out women's and men's rights. All labour and pension rights apply equally to all persons, but unfortunately most of the rights of persons with disabilities are derived from the social care system, which is clearly reflected in the work reports of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, both in previous years and in the last 2012 report, so it is logical that in the section of the Committee on Health and Social Care and the Committee on Human Rights. So we propose to include it in this Committee on Health and Social Policy. We have been given the principle of consent of the President of the Committee. Furthermore, we have an amendment to article 87, where on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports we have an intruder who is the protection of women at work. So we propose to delete this sub-assembly for the reason that in the Committee's work, pension system and social partnership work protection is explicitly stated. It is also the opposite of the Law on Gender Equality to make a gender difference. All workers are entitled to equal protection at work independently of sex, and the specific protection of women is defined by the Labour Act and the Labour Protection Act, which is the responsibility of the Committee. Furthermore, labour protection is an integral part of the organisation of work and is required by each employer in accordance with the Labour Protection Act to ensure the conditions for workers to work in a secure manner. It is therefore not on the working body to edit the work space. We further have an amendment to Article 91 where we want to put the rights of former political prisoners in the work of the War Veterans Committee. They also have the protection of other victims of totalitarian regimes, so I think protecting the rights of former political prisoners would belong here. And the last amendment that I have already said is this housing policy on Article 93.We will see for now all these previous amendments have been accepted by fellow Committee presidents except for housing policy. We will see if it stays in this Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership or if we will look for a new address. Finally, I would also like to say something about my discussion of this first - reading Rules of Procedure, which was focused on Article 29. This is where the final proposal has been changed because we now have a position so we have a cover for some clubs that already exist in the Croatian Parliament, so a combination of political parties and independent MPs which we have not had so far and that is to be welcomed because we have garners and spring has not come. Here's finally spring, so these clubs will have their own legality. However, something I would not accept and offer as an amendment is the issue of national minority representatives, we would set a limit here that a national minority representative cannot be declared an independent representative. So the current Rules of Procedure of our colleague Furio Radino does not in any way prevent him from being a member of the IDS club, so he can declare himself a minority representative because he has been elected. He was elected by special criteria in the special constituency and he always remains a minority representative, so there is no need to declare himself an independent representative and the club could call itself the club of minority representative Furi Radin and IDS or vice versa IDS and minority representative without any problem. This is the corrections of Article 29, and I don't think we should call each other names anymore, and I think we should say hello because nobody knows what fate and everyone else is waiting for us in life. We don't always have to get along at all times with our parties and ourselves. Therefore, there will be a situation or an outage from the party or a run from the party and there will be independent representatives, but I would suggest that if not for this time let him prepare it for one next time that we too have a fine distinction between these MPs considering how they were elected because at this point we have everything under independent representatives, so also those who have been expelled from the party and those who have left the party themselves are independent representatives. And those selected from the list of citizens such as Don Grubisic's list is also treated as independent, under independent representatives. I think in some future change, I'm not talking about this, in this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, that part can be arranged very precisely in the articles preceding this chapter, chapter 2, which speaks of parliamentary immunity and the club representatives. I believe that let this remain in writing so that in some future revision of the Rules of Procedure it can be arranged to be fully accurate. Here, the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club will support, of course, hoping that a part of our amendments and efforts will be respected to support this Final Proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44046	Thank you very much. And now we're moving on to individual debates. The first of those distinguished representatives, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44047	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Of course I will start with Article 234 which I think is actually the greatest threat to this Rules of Procedure and I think that the activation of this article will bring down everything that is good in the Rules of Procedure. Now I will say something that I fully agree with, although one good part of the opposition has spoken about how it is against the Prime Minister to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament. I am in favour of submitting the report because it is quite logical because the Prime Minister has been elected to the Croatian Parliament and it is quite logical that the body chosen by him submits the report. In fact, there was a trap that actually led to a controversy about whether the Prime Minister could file a report as it said about sightings, problems and state in the country, so it was changed, so it says in a state of society. I think that's a worse solution. The government runs the country. And it's quite logical that the Prime Minister submits a state of affairs report. What makes you... Because he says he would take over the president's prerogatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not true. Who's more invited than the Prime Minister to report to the state council in the country. I think we should return that formula that was in the first, first reading. Tolerant, democratic power or political majority seeks if it is indeed a democratic political minority to give as many rights as possible. Not because someday she will, we hope to find herself in the same position as the minority now. That is why, because of the fact that it is truly democratic and that we are developing a society where here you have seen in the previous law and the European Union sees a lack of democracy. Both in the European Union itself and in the Member States of the European Union. The deficit as they say what we have passed in the previous law. One of the major, one of the major shortcomings is that the government can block with the help of parliament, initiative, proposals and opposition activity. What we are proposing, legal acts, all proposals coming from the opposition can be on the agenda for three years and 354 days and never be discussed in this House. I wonder why the government treats the opposition that also represents the citizens who chose it. The relation to... and the disrespect of these citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and they are not in such a large minority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the demotion of ministers is also a proposal for the Prime Minister to complement the answer of the minister in charge. It is quite logical that the minister who answers the question is asked to be competent and to know about a particular problem and more than the Prime Minister. However, these Rules of Procedure are designed to make it, that actually the Prime Minister can... And we saw what it sounds like in the Croatian Parliament when Zoran Milanovic does it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has been said before in discussions that the committees will take on more and more responsibility. That it is the urgency that committees are being discussed, that committees are being decided and that all parliamentary representatives can participate on boards. So someone said, it seems to me Mr. Kregar, that all representatives can come to the board, which is logical and according to the previous Rules of Procedure. So he can, all of them can come, 150 of them, 151 MPs can attend the Committee's session. And then the Plenary session will be held in the halls where committees are held, that's logical. Everything that's illogical to others is logical to us. And what's the point of that? Make it backwards. Why shouldn't ministers be discussed at plenary sessions? Because it is true, there are then ministers of the first and second order, ministers who were presented at plenary sessions and ministers who were presented on committees unless there are 150 MPs on the board. But it's still gonna be a committee with 150 MPs. It may have been resentful before, it may have been a prelude to the opposition that she was sometimes contentious, that maybe she was talking too much, to pollemize. However, I am ordering the position, or the authorities pardon you, the authorities speak, argue, polarize, bring your position, debate with us because you are arguing not for us but for those who chose you but don't threaten you, do not confirm what we know you are managing and the police from this House, so threaten to knock on anyone's door DORH like we're afraid of DORH. I spoke several times and voted only against Bajic's report and I think Bajic should leave. And what exactly do you want to intimidate us with? What you are doing is exactly that message that has been said gives me the right to abuse Article 234 and that you will abolish the ability to speak in the Croatian Parliament, which is what I agree with colleagues who previously spoke to our only tool, the only weapon we can use and the tool we can handle in this House. Thank you. I don't see the time, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44048	You've got two and a half minutes left on my estimate as far as I can tell. Are you done? Thank you. We have a few replicas reported, Joseph Kregar. Here's your colleague, Craig.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44049	I don't think it's a good idea for us to bring something that's technically a useful solution. It has not happened until now that so many MPs have come to the meetings of any committee, no matter what the subject is, and there were no 150 of them at all. It's very rare for one who's not a member of the board to come along to hear what's being discussed. So a little more moderation in assessing this solution wouldn't hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44050	Thank you. We have an answer. Comrade Vuksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44051	I'll respond very briefly to a brief replica. It's about the election this time, attesting to the minister. We haven't had that on board as far as I know, and I think the interest will be much greater. And the other thing, you didn't answer the question why you didn't represent the ministers at the plenary session. There's not a single reason. That there are two criteria for the minister. Is there a First and Second Order Minister you didn't answer, so I'd like to ask if you can do it in four eyes if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44052	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here's my colleague Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Vuksic, I agree with you that it is not good and that we pointed out in a number of times in that recent, very recent debate on the first version of this Rules of Procedure. I say, I deliberately stress the recent because it is the impression that it is the same reading, or once again an emergency procedure. This is only formally separated, but in fact practically without change or with minimal changes we discuss almost the same text. And to that text, that very part of us had observations because it seemed completely unwarranted to age literally two types of ministers. One species to be selected immediately in plenary and discussed etc. And then suddenly the next kind of minister that's in some narrow circle just on one committee where you know that there are 15 people or 12 people, half the majority of them rarely become 7 people, say. So 7 people will discuss with him, talk about him, etc. We all said what it was about. It's actually about wanting to avoid situations like they were in this House when it justifiably criticised the government's policy in certain segments. Now to avoid it, and to get away from the public's eyes, there is something that is not good for those people who will be chosen, because they will be chosen by a different standard than those ministers chosen in a different way. And then of course we have two types of ministers, which is one paradox, an unusual thing, and I repeat, it's not good for those people or for the government as a whole, whatever the government is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44054	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44055	Dear colleague Reiner, here you are now speaking again of one abuse. You said you didn't want to get in a position to criticise the government's policy. Exactly and that is, in fact, the intention not in front of the public because it is explained that committee sessions cannot be transferred, committee sessions are rarely reported, although I believe that from committees where ministers will be represented and reported but will be far ahead of a smaller audience. And since this should be avoided by the government's criticism, the prime minister's criticism and the way this government solves problems. This will be addressed in a more intimate atmosphere with seven or eight board members, or perhaps if at least with the presence of the opposition, the representatives of the authorities will certainly not attend.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44056	Thank you. The next replica is Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, try to imagine what this session of the Parliament would look like these three days, if this Rules of Procedure were in effect. Look at the wonderful miracle our government remembered that in a few days we are entering the European Union. And that we still have a bunch of laws that, and regulations that don't comply. And now look, the Parliament has to bring it in because they've had a cabinet session today, they've sent five laws, and it has to be passed on Friday. So that's why what's happening these days is clear what the government wants to achieve with Article 234. Also, some who have argued for certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure in recent times that this is the highlight of democracy, the highlight of the strengthening of the Parliament now do not even want to hear about those provisions, so what has changed in the meantime. Does anyone really think that on behalf of the club there's only one who can say an opinion? Now you have 40 people at the club, by some points, so surely 30, 40% want to argue for the simple reason that those points concern their life, their... Where they came from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But look, on the other hand, you have the government's interest in not being overly debated, not talking too much, because maybe some things will be revealed that the Prime Minister and his ministers don't like, and then the government's presidency under pressure makes a decision to, say, discuss that point for just two hours. I'm saying, if the Rules of Procedure were in place, try to move it today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, you'd probably be somewhere at the sixth, seventh point by now, because because of the urgency that these laws should be passed by Friday, practically in the evening, we would limit the time of debate to these points. So here, this week, what the government has done today, it shows us most clearly what it wants to achieve with Article 234 without a lot of philosophy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44058	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44059	Here, I couldn't agree more, colleague Shucker, it's all math. We need 20 points to discuss it by Friday, vote those points, and it would have been a lot more comfortable if we had done it by those who wrote this Rules of Procedure up to three o'clock and gone to the quiet houses. There wouldn't be much criticism. However, we are responsible to our voters. We must speak for our voters, represent their interests. However, this Rules of Procedure does not give us the opportunity to do our job if we are to be limited to the time provided for here. And it looks like what he wants to vote for will be voted. Because there has never been a single remark, an important remark of the opposition. So in the future, we will have to find other ways or not to participate in these sessions if we are to be abused and I believe that Article 234 simply requires you to find other ways. Mostly give a clear message to the public that this authority is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44060	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44061	Thank you very much. I agree with you that this Rules of Procedure is a step back in Croatian parliamentary democracy. That on the other hand most of the parliamentary deputies are trying to take away the most, the best tool we have in our work, which is speech. And during the last debate when I debated myself, I made it clear that what they failed to respond to and all the while saying it was the same, and that's this story about the appointment of ministers, i.e.. The debate on ministers on the parliamentary committee. If it is possible to come to a parliamentary committee, if it can be debated, if it can even be broadcast on television, let's say one such debate, which is the problem, and why can't we respect some arrangement to do so at the Plenary Session when we can do it at the Plenary Session. But it's not like that. Although they claim it's the same, it's not the same. On the parliamentary board come those who are appointed, there are 12, 13, 15 depending on them, then only one number votes them, not all vote. Then it is likely that you will come to such a constituency committee very little because it is mostly at a time when Plenary sessions are held. Then there are a number of these little moments that make it impossible for you to even discuss a minister. We last had a very dynamic and lively discussion about the Minister of Tourism. And I think it was good for Croatian citizens to know who would lead such a resort. And it could have been found out in almost six hours everything that was to be found out. However, today it is decided that this should no longer be so, because it is in the interest of how we heard Croatian democracies, that this is progressive, that other countries, etc., etc. It is my opinion that this Rules of Procedure is simply made up to the extent of the majority, that their current obvious advantage may be that in a year, perhaps even before, perhaps or in two years, it may be the greatest flaw or lack, and it may surely strive to change it then.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44062	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44063	Dear counterpart Boric, in order to be more honest with the intention to put in place a provision that at the time of the Plenary Sessions no committee meetings can be held, and especially not committee meetings when such important issues are resolved, then it would be a clear intention. So... We can all come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it doesn't say anything. And you'll probably be putting sessions in some storm when most of us can't get on the team, remember, those board sessions. Remember what happened at the beginning when the Kukuriku coalition took over the government where Monday's clubs, Tuesday's committees, were told on Wednesday's plenary session Thursday and Friday. And that he would stick to it and that he would finally put order into the work of the Parliament. But who's sticking to it? No one. And now we have another such provision that will indeed take place in the crucial issues of the Republic of Croatia, such as the appointment of a minister to debate on committees while the Plenary session will take place. Maybe someone's gonna say there's not gonna be a Plenary session, as we know when it doesn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44064	Thank you. And the last replica of Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, respected colleagues and colleagues, I must say that I am appalled by the fact that all day or at least in that part when we talk about the Rules of Procedure of a certain fellow MPs I will insist that they manipulate that word by making certain provisions of this Rules of Procedure. I've been sitting in this House for four terms. The provision referred to in Article 234 has been in the Rules of Procedure since I remember. If there are colleagues who are also with me from that period, let someone tell me whether this provision of the Rules of Procedure has ever been used neither at the time of the coalition government nor by the HDZ Government, and no one wants to say that above that article of the Rules of Procedure stands an exception, an exception that no one in this House has ever used before. And that everything else about speech and allegedly restricting speech is nothing different than it is right now. And you fellow Vuksic will continue to be able to do exactly any exposure as you do to have a replica of either the club, or a single representative from the same club, from another club, the opposition, the ruling and I don't know which one. And you insist that we restrict freedom of speech in this House. To me, it's cheating and incorrect speaking in the House, not to say anything else to deceive our constituents, yours, whatever you want. Second about ministers and their representation on committees. I vote for it because here at the plenary session it's not the ministers of one row or another. When the presentation of the government and all ministers is then spoken by the motionary, and when possible the change of ministers then there is no reason for the representatives who believe that they have anything to ask him about the candidate for the future minister to ask from the domain he will have tomorrow in the government Not here at the plenary session to talk about everything and anything but that cabinet that the minister is proposing. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44066	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44067	Dear colleagues, you spoke several times about the deception of the voters. I'm discussing the Rules of Procedure that I have on my desk. I am not four mandates, and I am not interested in what you four mandates have done and how much you deceived the Croatian public with the promises in Plan 21, and as much as we deceive the public, it will be two and a half years ago again by the voters. You're saying there are no first and second-row ministers. How to choose and represent each other in two different ways. How? I don't think there's any difference, then, what, when you get on two. It's the same as playing football by two different rules. You play one half-time like this and another half-time like that. So, you're not contradictory here, and you don't deceive the public, but deceives the public of the opposition. Nothing, that's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44068	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by Goran Maric. Here's Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Beus Richembergh, earlier here claimed that we had come to this proposal of the law in an exact procedure. Although the instant procedures usually include instant products, they cannot claim that this is an instant product. This is a bill that could only be better. To listen to everything proposed rationally and to even accept what was promised to be accepted here, the Proposer said that it was acceptable in connection with those who, on behalf of the Proposer, come to Parliament to define who can, who cannot come and that the committees will be denied the debate on the law if someone not proposed by law comes on behalf of the Proposer. There's no way that's going to happen, even though you said you were going to install it. A few notes and suggestions. Article 38, where it describes the Bureau of Parliament as doing what it does. Normally, logically, it would be natural to supplement the fifth sentence if he suggested cutting the time for discussion in accordance with Article 234. Because he's doing it new now, but it's not in his job description. The proposal should therefore be complemented there. The procedure is the foundation of democracy, and democracy implies freedom of speech. And everything that goes on to deny speech reduces the space for democracy. I don't know who has the right to do this, and this bill will provide for this right to take away the right to speak to a representative, to take away the right to replication and debate. It is good that the Prime Minister submits an annual report to the government, but it is not good not to discuss it individually and there is no replica. Imagine what it would be like to discuss the annual report of the Croatian Competition Protection Agency, and that no one can speak except the club president, when discussing the annual report by a state lawyer and that no one has the right to reply or to debate other than clubs. When it comes to the HANFA report, HAMAG or any other institution, the State Auditor, the Chief State Auditor of any institution that corresponds directly to the Assembly. That would be unthinkable. It is only imagined when the Prime Minister submits a report to the Croatian Parliament. So if so, let him read that report at a press conference or in the form of a press release, then I don't have to read it to us here because we can come up with that through other means to know what the president wanted to say about the state of the country. This bill of law has a lot of technical misunderstandings and mistakes even, I dare say. Although here in one Article 132 I even think that to ask questions, when a representative asks a representative of the Government or a Prime Minister that it takes up to two minutes to ask questions, no longer than two minutes to answer and explain, expressing satisfaction or dissatisfaction takes up to two minutes. I don't know what the difference is between two minutes and no more than two minutes when it's the same thing. But the question can be asked in one minute, it doesn't take two minutes. But perhaps even two or three minutes would be more necessary to answer a question that expresses satisfaction or dissatisfaction. But questions must be clear, unequivocal, direct, and therefore there is no need for such a minute to ask questions. I don't know where the Croatian language was, the one who was language-correcting this bill, which the high school went to, but this doesn't have much contact with the Croatian language. I don't want to be too specific, but I'll just have two, three copies. Article 174 says the draftr of the Law is obliged to inform the President of the Assembly who will give notice to the working bodies and the Assembly. I haven't read anywhere yet in the spirit of Croatian that someone is giving notice. It's not there. I don't know how such a structure got in a sentence here. When it comes to Article 232, which speaks on the subject of the established agenda, if the speaker gets away from the agenda theme, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda theme. It can only stand in this sense that the president will warn him to stick to the agenda, but if he will warn him, then it will be said that if the speaker gets away from the agenda topic, the chairman will warn him of the point. It is in the spirit of the Croatian language, but it cannot warn him to stick to the agenda, he can only warn him. If the warning is not there, then it is already predetermined, which is why he warned him. There's one saying not twice about the same. The applicant did not take into account one important thing that happens in practice, for example, that a report is discussed on the parent board but does not come to the plenary session in the debate. In the meantime, the parliament disbands, whether this Rules of Procedure does not predict what will happen when a new assembly of parliament is convened whether the same debate is being held on the new committee or only being forwarded to a plenary debate. So far, it has been the case that in 99% of the cases everything discussed has just continued to be discussed at the plenary session and only 1% of the cases where the applicant did not respond or the committee's position has been repeated and discussed again on the same report. There's not a word about that. Such doubts and doubts would have to be defined by the Rules of Procedure in order to avoid different treatment of the same reports. I would like to hear the answer to the question of what is going on with the report that was accepted on the home Committee on Agriculture and did not come to a plenary debate. And what happens if the report isn't accepted and it also came up, it didn't come to a plenary debate. It probably depends on whether or not the applicant’s position has been met with the report. There have been cases where repeated and twice discussed on the board on the same report. That rule, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament's work has not yet been foreseen and neither does this one. What's with the government's opinions doesn't define. Why would the Government give an opinion to the Parliament on a report by an agency that corresponds exclusively to the Parliament. Only that it serves as a guideline for discussion. But that's not good. If the government responds to a report going to the government, if it corresponds to the Parliament, then there is a debate on committees, government opinions, no government opinion has come, and that agency or institution is solely responding to the Parliament. I think those things should have been defined, too. Maybe, I don't mind thinking but it's not binding, it's not holding the procedure back, it's not holding back... Otherwise, the Rules of Procedure, by my conviction, have too many boards and are not in line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 29 committees. We have, say, a Committee on Education, Science and Culture. It's not consistent with the ministries. We have the Ministry of Culture and we have the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. I don't think the committees, the parent committees and the parent ministries are responding to each other, and there's a lot of times going by. They also stated that something had been accepted and something had not been accepted, however, it was said from fellow Stazic that the proposal was not accepted to shorten the debate and in the meantime the new Article 234 was just proof that it was accepted by Stazic's remarks which was not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44070	Thank you. We have one replica, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44071	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Marić, you can see it is very interesting to compare the provisions of the old Rules of Procedure and the new Rules of Procedure. It's in this part of which you've been talking about, about how much an agent can spend time asking questions, that it's clearly defined 2 minutes, but two newspapers have been inserted for government representatives. One is that if the prime minister is asked if the prime minister is not satisfied with how the minister answers the question, he can answer the question, but it is very interesting, the time to answer the question. So so far it has been exactly like this, says the answer to the asked question generally takes 2 minutes, and if the complexity of the question requires an answer can take up to 4 minutes. However, this lost until 2 minutes in the new rules of procedure and became up to 4 minutes. It means another provision of the new Rules of Procedure that put the government's representatives ahead of parliamentary deputies. However, the provision of this Article 234 is very interesting where it has always been said to be so. It was not always like that, but in the old article of Rules of Procedure 212, the extraordinary Bureau of Parliament is said, with the agreement of all the presidents of the Clubs of Representatives, and this is crucial when it comes to the limitation of time for the Bureau to agree with the President of the Club of Representatives, such as today the President of the Parliament and the Presidency of the Assembly with the presidents of the Clubs of Representatives to agree that we will, for example, connect these four agricultural points and that we will have a single debate. That is, therefore, the provision of an old rules of procedure that is used in a very good way. It was also not once that when there were reports from the Prime Minister or some ministers that they agreed to discuss only.... But you have one key provision in Article 234, which is that in this new article 234 the possibility of clubs speaking for 15 minutes is excluded in relation to Article 212, and the rest of the time is divided into other club members. This is not available in Article 234. So, a big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44072	Thank you. We have an answer, Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44073	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker and yesterday and today are actually in the first item of the agenda, and even now we have often heard here a finding of the subordinate position of the Parliament in relation to the Government. And this bill also reminds me more that the motion is a government rather than a parliamentary body because it cares more about how to please the members of the government in the Parliament when they visit this Parliament than give the right to representatives for what they have the right. This bill gives even the right to MPs but to remain silent, but we have not chosen silence as some who are exclusively silent and on the most important proposals of the law, even in the explanation of the motionors do not use a third of the planned time because tactics are as fast as possible, as simple as possible and as little as possible, so they think that we will shut up too. But let's just go back to this Rules of Procedure now that he doesn't speak at all where he sits, and if the promoter is someone else, not the Government, whether he's a representative of the Government in the Parliament or not. There's not a word about it. If there's a right to come, is there a right to sit, is there a right to sit, is there a right to speak? It's not there. We saw him this morning, and we were even here complaining about why he left. That Rules of Procedure does not define, I think you should define where the Proposer sits during the entire debate, in his place or there. And that doesn't define it. The Rules of Procedure avoids everything that should be clearly determined that we all know how to behave and have a procedure. All he cares about is that there's no chance of anyone asking the Prime Minister or the minister or asking him if there's as little time for discussion or replication as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44074	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, Miroslav Tudjman. Here's a colleague of Tudjman's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44075	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will not repeat what has been said so far, but I will remind myself of some suggestions that have been made in the first reading, which have not been adopted or adopted in a questionable way. The first thing I think is said in a way, but not in that spirit as the remark was made in the first reading, along the way to visit what Mr. Maric said. The Bureau of Parliament, Article 37, says patronage, etc., and then suddenly some strange verb is established, instead of establishing an annual plan for the meeting of the Parliament. Now, that's that proposal I was talking about that should have, like all other countries, a timetable or a calendar for the Parliament meeting. It determines the plan, so it can be understood that the Bureau of Parliament says it will be 4, 5 or how many sessions a year in the calendar year, it can be called the plan. Here is also said the meaning and the spirit is to establish the calendar of the Assembly meeting so that everyone in advance for the whole year that Parliament will meet. It seems to me something that should be corrected if we are to introduce order that this coalition is constantly calling for the introduction of order. The second provision that seems important to me, just about that, in Article 228, is to say on the occasion that, after the agenda has been established, the President of the Assembly shall, in a proper manner, publish the established agenda. At the beginning of each working day, the President of the Parliament shall, as a rule, announce the points of the agenda and, at the end of the sitting, the Chair will, as a rule, publish the points of discussion. In other words, theoretically, it can be said that at the end of the evening one agenda is said, and tomorrow morning it is no longer worth it, but it is another. Therefore, I believe that this item should be amended and that this item is the order of discussion of the agenda points as set out in the rule does not change in the current week of the session. If we adopt him on Friday what practice it was until next Friday, that agenda should be worth it. Furthermore, what I think is very important perhaps for a common sense is that it is contained here but it seems to me that since law can sometimes be interpreted in one way or another, in one way or another. We have in Article 179 of this proposal of the Rules of Procedure that the presidents of the parent committees are obliged to put into the agenda of the parent committee certain laws, i.e. for which that working body is parent and to submit reports to the President of the Parliament. However, there is no provision that without the opinion of the home working body no debate can be held at the plenary session. And we, at least I, from this brief experience that I'm here in the assembly, have had a few discussions at the plenary session without having a report from the parent board. Therefore, this spirit in this, the provisions of these laws exist but is not taxed and I think it should be stated. Furthermore, as regards this provision of responsibility, the rights and responsibilities of the parent bodies when it comes to this Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the proposal was what I think is normal for the EU's security policy to be discussed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Because the issue of EU security policy on the logic of things is a matter of national security, and I see no reason not to introduce it and as a obligation here not to dispute and intensities that other committees both intend and need to deal with this issue. It is a clear matter that I also join those who advocate a debate on the election of ministers who are later, when a change comes in the minister to be held at the plenary session. The argument we've heard here that there aren't a lot of people on the parent boards that won't come 151 MPs to talk about it anyway. It is in my opinion that this is being discussed at the plenary session and at the very least that at least all representatives have the right to participate in the debate at least in representatives' clubs if not all of them. With this I think that another provision, which was necessary, that each legislator should make it a assumption that it could come up with a debate in the law to specify which procedure had been implemented, who had discussed everything about the proposal for a certain law in order for this debate to be of a better quality and that what was so used that it had already been lost to become transparent to know which, all those interested in certain legal changes or new legal provisions to see what they had shown, what their views were, so that they could be more precise and easier to discuss and determine in the Assembly. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44076	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44077	Thank you very much. Comrade Tudjman, you've noticed one very important thing to which we still have a few sentences to add. I have heard here that this proposal gives greater importance to working bodies and committees. Well, I didn't really notice that that's exactly what it's all about, because if it can come to a debate with plenary law, a report or a bill that wasn't on the home working body, then what it contains is the importance of the home working body if it's not even the basic prerequisite of the debate at the Assembly. Therefore, it would be necessary for the opinion of the home working body to be subject to discussion at the plenary session and reports and draft laws or amendments to the law. It would be necessary that the home working bodies are not to be held in the days when the plenary debate is held, because there is no law and there is no report in the Assembly that is irrelevant and which should be carried out in a hurry in 5 minutes. And if we want these working bodies and committees to become even more important, then to ensure that as many present representatives and those interested in participation as possible are involved, although they are not members of the board, then this should be the condition of the plenary debate and that it is not on the day when the plenary debates are held. Otherwise, this Rules of Procedure stipulates that the Proposer is obliged to inform the President of the Assembly of who will represent and explain the draft law or report on the basis of a plenary debate, but which persons, not by name or by function, are not listed. For example, the minister comes here with his entire six-to-lowest-level suite, sitting there and speaking, explaining, even half of them are not listed as being able to speak on behalf of the promoter but sitting there. It has to be limited to this. Or, I witnessed that there was a debate on the home working bodies and that the proposer was not the one listed in the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44078	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44079	Thank you. You see, this suspicion of actually being able and without the parent board is justified because if I am not mistaken in the previous Rules of Procedure there was and in parliamentary practice there was an obstruction and then the work of the Parliament was blocked because some committee presidents did not want to hold a session with that agenda point, but in that Rules of Procedure there was whatever happens, as the meeting is called and there is some order. If I'm not mistaken, it's not here now, it's deleted, so other words really count if someone's going to go down that road to block it and that it can be discussed independently and say that it's within the box I don't know that most people still decide that it's more important than the parent board. However, if, and this is one argument and another reduction of the opposition that it cannot express its opinion, it cannot act using all these parliamentary methods. However, there is another problem that is related to this and therefore makes it even more difficult, and this is about the law that we discussed today on the relationship between the Government and the Parliament on European affairs where it also does not want to be put that the Committee on European Affairs should be consulted and the opinion of the parent committees should be held. In other words, it only counts on the Committee on European Affairs, where the parliamentary majority has a president and its majority, it does not matter what the parent committees say. And in this way the role of the Parliament continues to be diversified, or increasingly insignificant, and the Parliament becomes increasingly insignificant and loses its power.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44080	Thank you. And last to discuss Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44081	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd actually go back to what the esteemed Cregar representative said, and we're doing this proposal to sort out how the Parliament works, we're sorting out our own house. And if that's true, then it's certainly not good what's going on and what we're witnessing right now. First of all, if we're setting up our own house, it would be good if we were to make it consensual, try to agree on ways best for all of us. But that's not happening. There's been a re-determination of the majority in the Parliament who, of course, has that right, but is that good? By force to accomplish something that the joint house should arrange? I don't think it's good. If that's the best proof that we've been discussing this for hours now, here in the hall is the ruling coalition of ten MPs, none of them reported for discussion. In fact, of course a man feels it's pointless to discuss it anyway. It probably is at this point, and it seems so, although probably because of the public it's not quite like that, but all of us who discussed it are aware that whatever you say here and whatever smart and constructive suggestions you put out at the end instead of these ten tomorrow will sit here eight or nine times as many people and they will all give up nicely for it, for solutions that I am deeply convinced of too, will not fit. Because actually this law isn't meant here, it's dictated on the other side of Mark's square, and here you'll just obediently raise your hands for him. And what's wrong with that? For example, I expected that, and that is the purpose of the Rules of Procedure, the work of the Parliament would be better arranged. That there will be articles that will talk about what has been announced and what I would support in my heart, which is that, say, the plenary sessions are held on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, that votes usually take place on Fridays, that clubs meet on Mondays, that committees meet on Tuesdays, that committees cannot be held at plenary sessions. All of what we were and at Parliament's presidency agreed and what would arrange this work of the Parliament improved him, because now he's a mess now he's a mess often. But that's not there. Why isn't there? I don't know, I guess someone seems to be a better mess, but I don't think so. There's one whole series of contradictory stories in there. For example, a number of colleagues have mentioned how the agenda is defined. Well, now with the agenda, you have everything and everything. In Article 38, the Bureau of Parliament discusses the agenda of the next session of the Assembly. Which is actually completely unnecessary here because the same article 224 fully derogates it because it says it proposes a president of the Parliament who can then change the agenda proposal at the session itself and leaves out certain topics or complementing topics etc. So that's what the article said before, and it's certainly not good. And despite that, I personally highly appreciate the current President-in-Office of the Parliament as I did some former presidents, but I don't think that's good because it puts them in a position and unfortunately this is happening again with the government's Majorisation of the Parliament as some law comes, he has to put it on the agenda, the order of agenda points is often changed. Well, you know that we don't know what we're going to discuss in an hour, of course, what the quality of such discussions will be, then everyone's pretty clear. What else surprised me to admit it? I was surprised by an incredible surface in that. Here is Article 121, which says that if a government representative is not present at the debate, the working body may suspend or postpone the debate, the Parliament will decide without debate. How? What procedure? That's not what it says. This Regulation shall enter The government is obliged to report to the Parliament on its work on the policy it implements, etc. How again? What procedure? Who does that detail in what way? So there's nothing in there that says even though it should be written. Stories that it is good or not good that once a year the Prime Minister gives an oral presentation of the government's report are presented in a different way. This would possibly be good if after that an extensive debate could be held, such as crawling the entry of an office system because it is the impression that what Obama is saying is being achieved, there is no debate afterwards, but Obama is the president of the presidential system. We've given up the half-presidential system a long time ago, and now we have a prime minister talking about the state of society. He can talk about the state of the country because he's responsible. The situation in society is mainly referred to by sociologists and it seems to me that no prime minister has ever been. So it is obvious that the prime minister's position is very important for the Prime Minister's speech, and these messages will then be sent all over Croatia and we will all listen to them with amazement. ... the imposition of the role of prime minister here is best seen in Article 136, where it says the government's asked questions are answered by the Prime Minister or by a member of the government, and the answer may be added by the Prime Minister. So it is actually something incomprehensible to me, it has never been so far in these 23 years of the existence of the Croatian Parliament. Is that extra because it's thought and priorities that the ministers in the government are incompetent, mutated or what, I don't know, but why wouldn't the minister from his field be competent, most competent to answer that I don't know. Or is actually referring to the fact that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure allow the situation as we unfortunately have seen here, I say unfortunately because the whole public saw them and clearly gave their judgment. Again disorder, the ambiguity of Article 149, where in the interpretation, the stories of the MPs can be selected by their representative who has the right to explain the interpretation. How long? Some things are done with great precision, and it doesn't say anything now. Or when the Prime Minister, or an individual minister, when the interpretation relates to the work of the ministry, has the right to orally explain the government's interpretation report. It doesn't say how long again. So in some things it goes into strange precision in other very important ones absolutely nothing is said about it. A whole series of inaccuracies, article 233.where it says extremely because of the importance of the theme Parliament can decide that individual representatives of the club can speak longer. What procedure is that? Well, that should be written in the Rules of Procedure. Who's going to decide that? Then we'll fight here and talk about who's stronger or who's not stronger. Article 234. Let's not manipulate, I agree, but let's just say, clearly, what's been changed in it. He was similar but with a very important difference existed long ago, but the important difference was that and he was not being used, I agree with that, but the very important difference was that it should have been brought into line with the representatives' clubs applying it. It's never been used, but this way I'm not sure it's going to be used. We have witnessed various abuses, so we are truly apprehensive in fear. The confusion with the agenda is in Article 228, where it says that after the agenda has been established, the President of the Assembly shall publish this established agenda, and at the beginning of each working day of the meeting shall be discussed at the points of that day. So what kind of Parliament is it that we have to say in the morning about what will be discussed that day? Well, can't we plan this at least a week in advance? Well, I'm convinced that if we want to function normally and okay then we should know at least a week in advance. But, of course, there goes the hair of the government, which in its total incompetence and chaos sends some documents every day, the laws of the Witnesses we'll get the same tomorrow on the benches of some texts that the day after tomorrow must be voted on, the day before joining the EU under the firm that it must be done for EU entry. So if the government didn't realize a day earlier that we were entering the EU and that some of those points couldn't be solved two or four or six months ago, then I really don't know it, it's just talking about a general mess I've been looking forward to getting rid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44082	Thank you, too. We've got three replicas, the first one to come forward is Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44083	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, I agree with you and logically it would be that this Rules of Procedure a lot... And it would make sense that we want to improve the work of this House of Commons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And basically all of what we say in the towers is that we disagree that in a certain way we should have installed it in the Rules of Procedure. A new provision of Article 234, watching this assembly look like every day in the afternoon, and it is certain that these eight laws that we are going to discuss tonight, which we have to discuss, will not be discussed by anyone but the HDZ Club, or possibly still there and there. So it might be more logical if we had installed some kind of parliamentary obligation on all of this together in Article 234. So we know what to do. And also to claim that this article 234 is identical to the former article 212 is at least ridiculous because I say two key provisions have been expelled. And that's that sometimes Parliament's presidency is in agreement with club presidents. And the second thing, in that short or certain term of discussion, at certain points, the representatives of the clubs had and there is no right to 15 minutes in this Article, and then the rest of the time was divided according to the agreement. So these are two very important parliaments and the Presidency of the Parliament couldn't make a decision on its own to limit themselves. And there was once or twice a report by the Prime Minister that agreed with the club presidents to discuss it or when the minister was appointed, that only club representatives were discussing it, not other representatives. But this Rules of Procedure clearly points to one thing, wants one person in the image of the Prime Minister to rise to a pedestal, he can do anything, you can't do anything. Then it would be best for them to write us what we can and how we can speak and then try to say what we are about to say with our speech exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44084	Thank you. We have an answer, Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44085	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Shucker, I agree with you, of course. It is doubtless that certain things are made so that at least they can be used to keep the opposition quiet and shut. Whether it's gonna happen or not, it's hard for me to tell. But in our people, there's a saying, "whose snake has been bitten by that and the glider is afraid." So it is, of course, to expect that some of the things that are so persistently pushed into this Rules of Procedure will obviously be applied with some intention. One of the bizarre and on the trail of what you said was that you wanted to allow the Prime Minister, the Government, to do whatever they wanted, with us parliamentary deputies, not only with us, the opposition but with you ladies and gentlemen, so-called. The ruling one. I'm deliberately saying so-called. because someone else is ruling you. Article 228 may exceptionally alter the order of discussion or the decision of the President of the Assembly during the sitting if there is no report by the competent working bodies of the proposing or the Government for each item of the agenda. So think about the bizarreness we're talking about. So we're talking about that if the one who proposes some law wasn't worthy of coming here at all. If the parent’s body did not discuss this, then it could change the order of the debate so that someone could ask him to come anyway. Well, it would be normal to then... automaticism takes off the agenda and that this item cannot come to the agenda until the end of the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I've been in a lot of bodies that have always been treated like this. When someone who needs to defend something proposes, I guess he cares about it the most. When he is not worthy to come then he loses his right to speak. Well, we lose our rights here if we sign up and don't show up. And now they're "swimming gliders" as the people would say only to succeed in homecoming the prime minister or ministers to defend what they should defend as they function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44086	Thank you, too. Next replica of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44087	Here's no matter what I'm going to say at the end on behalf of the promoter, I felt the need to replicate on a thesis that you presented in your debate. My colleague, you have, in some way, offended the MPs, so let's call them most when you say that no one in the majority has discussed this agenda point. For example, they discussed colleagues of Hrelja, a colleague of Kregar, a colleague of Beus, and fellow Sobol, a fellow member of the Sobol, to list just some and they are no one for me as you called them. They took part in the debate. They may not have spoken long, extensively, repeated two or three or four times what colleagues before them from their club said, but they spoke. And a colleague at last may not matter about anything to talk about 10, 15, 20 or 30 minutes, sometimes it's important to say something concrete even if it only takes two or one minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44088	Thank you. We have an answer, Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44089	Thank you very much. I really skipped one or two MPs, the others didn't, the others spoke on behalf of the clubs, so I didn't, of course, count on it, I didn't even mention you, of course, you spoke on behalf of the promoter. But in an individual debate, you will forgive, amazingly, that no one felt the need to talk about it. And I repeat, so the words of the MPs on your list, we arrange our house. And when we talk about a concrete one, I have listed a whole series of very concrete remarks that, and I have said these remarks on the occasion of the first reading and nothing has happened, I have just repeated them, pointing to them, thinking that it could fix this Rules of Procedure. But obviously it's totally irrelevant, you'll obviously vote it tomorrow. But let's be aware that's not good. That's not good for all of us. Not because of our opposition just, believe me, it's not good for you either. And sooner or later you will see that this is not good and that it could be done better, that it took a little more time, that some constructive proposals were heard and at least some of them were classified, I am convinced that we would get a better Rules of Procedure and that we would work more successfully. But as usual, you don't want to hear it, and you will do your will as you do every time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44090	Thank you, too. And the last replica, Miroslav Tudjman. Here's a colleague of Tudjman's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44091	Thank you very much. My colleague Reiner used to talk a lot about this agenda. I'll only give today's example. On Monday, the government made its proposals to supplement the agenda, or to announce which points of the agenda will enter, as well as the State Border Control Act. Yesterday was a national holiday, this morning was the first possible time when we could call a session, a session was held at 14 o'clock because this item of the agenda should now come. It was a question of how to bring in the proposings who came, and the other board members in full composition couldn't really be mad because the other committees had the same sessions. Thus, they probably had the same problem with other points of the agenda. And now I'm asking you what we look like in the eyes of the public when you don't have time or time to prepare for this debate, or study the law, or consult others. Therefore, this procedure is such a way of discrediting, destroying the dignity and reputation of this Parliament, as well as the government because it works in this way because it does so with its own behavior lead to such situations. There's no reason why it wasn't planned and why there's not enough time left for these things to be done the way they're supposed to be. This Rules of Procedure will basically make no difference if things like this don't happen again. There's no provision for someone to tell me what a provision is, which are procedures that don't happen again. Because of what we've been doing, nothing and that's the problem. Therefore, the objections that there are no MPs are simply irrelevant in relation to the way the Parliament works.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44092	Thank you. We have an answer, Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44093	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Professor Tudjman, that's exactly the aspect I was stressing. I expected this Rules of Procedure to solve a whole series of unresolved issues that are bothering us, which are tormenting us because of the organisation of work here, because of the desire to prepare ourselves well for discussions, because of the desire to study materials, because of the desire to consult people who are not members of the Parliament, but who know more about a problem than we do, of course, in such a chaotic approach, there is neither time nor opportunity. And it is clear that by doing so, we discredit ourselves and this house because we are discussing the unprepared because we often debate, and we are not completely sure of our views, precisely because there is no time, which is not literally known which laws will be discussed in the next two or three hours, let alone the next day or two days. Those who are longer in this House, and there are several here remember that by 2000, MPs received the beginning of the session a small calendar on which they were precisely marked weeks, or days when the Parliament worked, and when it did not work. It's gone. This exists in serious parliaments where you know exactly what weeks are done for the whole year in advance, which days are done, when working and the framework plan is known. We have nothing to do with it. We don't know if it's Fridays, Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, one week's Mondays, the other starts working Tuesdays, the third doesn't start on Wednesdays. The laws are coming in, and the documents as anyone remembers, so here you see a day and a half before entering the European Union, suddenly the government has discovered that there are still some things to be coordinated and then it sends us from a session of the Government that was held today to discuss it tomorrow and then the day after tomorrow or tomorrow we must, the day after tomorrow, vote, the day before the entry into the European Union. So it's all non-serious and I expected that rule to actually solve it, but it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44094	Thank you. And finally on behalf of Proposer Peja Grbin, chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the debate today. There's been a thesis that this Rules of Procedure is being choked by democracy, and fortunately I haven't heard that it's in the ranks of those Rules of Procedures as it was in the first reading of North Korea, but it still accuses us of trying to silence this Rules of Procedure Parliament and who knows what's not. But, of course, that's not the case. And I'm going to go through those provisions that were the most controversial. For example. The provision of Article 119, it said, will prevent hearing or discussing new ministers. Well, that's just not true. The new ministers will be discussed before the board, each parliamentary representative if he wishes to go and discuss it, and unlike the process so far, the minister will be obliged, or a candidate for minister, to answer questions asked. So we'll be able to listen and see what candidates are for the minister, which has not been the case so far, and the public will be able to find out. If it's the asphyxiation of democracy, it's an honor. In addition, Article 128. We are suffocating democracy by imposing an obligation for the Prime Minister to submit a report once a year, to address MPs and the entire Croatian public where he tells what he's been doing, what the government has been doing in the past year, and thus we are suffocating democracy. After that, representatives of all political options represented in the Croatian Assembly will be able to discuss it through their clubs. It's not asphyxiation of democracy. And finally, Article 234 again is about the asphyxiation of democracy. But no, that's not true either. Article 234 as Sobol spoke is one exception. We will see in practice whether and how much will be applied, whether it will come to life. How will it work, but you did not take into account that this article is, for example, very much in favour of the MPs and increases their time of discussion in relation to what is provided for the applicant. The promoter's speech is limited to 20 minutes and that's it. The applicant will no longer be able to report as has been the case every 5 minutes, or after each representative and speak. No, MPs will have a very high priority through the application of this article to the applicant. So I don't even see democracy asphyxiation here. Finally, my colleague Reiner talked about several things that were disputed by him in the Rules of Procedure, and I do not see them as such, and one of them is, for example, a question of how to conduct the debate and how much can a representative of the promoters speak in the interpretation. Well, for 30 minutes, it specifically says in the Rules of Procedure, and a government representative who is not an interpreter can speak for 15 minutes and it is clearly prescribed and so it has been so far and there has been almost nothing changing. Here's where I'd end up. I'd like to inform you that a whole series of amendments have arrived. The Constitutional Committee will consider them tomorrow. I am convinced that part of these amendments will be adopted and I hope that although you will not agree with me there, we will get a much better Rules of Procedure and that the work of the Parliament will be more successful than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44096	Thank you, too. We have reported four replicas. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44097	Well, esteemed colleague Grbin, here you are, in your final address as the promoter, looking back and saying that this isn't asphyxiation of democracy. Well, maybe we could agree that this isn't the asphyxiation of democracy, that this is the dimming of the same or all sorts of skills to make it impossible for Parliamentarians to speak in a speech where they can express their views and opinions in the way they've done it so far because it doesn't suit you. Practically, the government is from these constituency benches and it's gone. At the beginning of the term of office, it was constantly said there was no opposition, no opposition. However, the fact is that there is opposition, there is no debate by the ruling. All that comes from your workshop as the chairman of the Assembly Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure of these last tens of days, and even a month of causing doubts and divisions, even doubts among those who are constitutional experts, and your disdain for these 7 hundred thousand, 700,000 and more signatures for the referendum, and these kind of blackmails, please choose to raise your hand for the Constitution, for example this law that is today current or proposed amendment is simply a new way of communication between the authorities and the opposition. Here I was listening to Mr. Reiner, he's the vice president of this House, this House, and he's expressing dissatisfaction. This is how we Assembly representatives who don't have that much influence and inability. They're people from Parliament's presidency. So it was not intended to achieve a minimum consensus on some of the most important things, so to bring it with some agreement and a common conversation, but to force some solutions as the highlight of democracy, and we know that this is not so but to adapt to the daily needs of this let's say the bad policies run by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44098	Thank you. We've got Peja Grbin's answer, Ovoltie.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44099	Thank you, Mr. President. So here we are from the opposition at the beginning of the term of office accused of suffocating or stifling democracy, but of course it doesn't end up like that. When the Rules of Procedure changed a little over a year ago, and a replica was introduced that would cover a comprehensive correction of the incorrect quote, you said it would dampen democracy, that it would prevent the debate in the Parliament, and we see the debate becoming more dynamic. And it's exactly the opposition that uses that institute much more. And he doesn't bother anyone today that he's replaced the correction of an incorrect quote. And as for the lack of consensus and debates, or proposals that come only from this side early in March of this year, as chairman of the Constitution Committee, I also addressed to all clubs, including the HDZ Representatives' Club a proposal, i.e. an application to deliver their proposals and intensities which they believe should be changed in the Rules of Procedure, what they believe should be complemented in the Rules of Procedure and to propose some resolutions, some solutions. Do you know how many suggestions have come? This much. Not one. And then you say we're not trying to talk. Well, that's not true! We're trying, but at the invitation to submit suggestions, you haven't responded to any suggestions. And when you read the argument and the Co-operation Act and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, you will see the number of objections and oppositions and rulings accepted, and how much was rejected. There was no difference whether the proposal came from one side or the other. Each one was considered, and whenever possible, it was adopted regardless of who suggested it. So please don't talk about lack of cooperation, consensus and conversation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44100	Thank you. Next line of Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. These grades of democracy are still more worth it, or they have more weight than the opposition because the ruling ones are not really relevant because they have a majority, and then they can vote what they want. When it comes to these ministers that it is actually now an increase in democracy and debate remains irresponsible who then explains why a certain minister has been removed. And what are the changes in government and government strategies? Where will this committee be explained? And who's gonna say that? The new minister? Thus, a whole segment disappears to be discussed at the plenary session. On the other hand, you are constantly skipping what has been warned. This controversial article, which goes on to reduce time, should be agreed by all club presidents that this will happen as is the case in the current Rules of Procedure. However, there is simply no such thing. In other words, you reduce all those options that have existed so far, and you claim that this Rules of Procedure is not good. If you're reducing it, it means this one's gonna get worse. I have just given you an example of what will happen, or what happened to this law today and with this committee, whether it can be avoided by the new Rules of Procedure. You didn't even mention it. You didn't even mention the key things to determine the calendar of the Assembly meeting, which is what academic Reiner was saying, which I mentioned, etc. It's just that you're jumping over like something hasn't been said. So the key, however, is to reduce these options, and if you want, you could claim a radical thesis that we claim here by ruling, I can vote immediately as soon as the proposal comes, it will be voted out, and we in opposition can make our remarks in writing, so we have solved and had democracy, and everyone has said what they think and want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44102	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, fellow coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44103	Well, I'll start by looking at democracy. I think I have a lot of right to talk about democracy in Croatia, but that right doesn't have only me, it is right for all MPs and all citizens of the Republic and I think that someone is in opposition or has no more or less right to talk about it. The same applies to the call referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article. Of course, such an invitation does not exclude the right to speak of objections at a plenary session or the right to refer only to observations at a plenary session. But I think if you want to talk seriously and if you want to seriously approach the amendments to the Rules of Procedure that remarks could be made at any time until the beginning of the first reading. But that didn't happen. Now, you asked what to do with the explanation of who's proposing a new minister? Well, it is clear who is proposing a new minister, and this promoter must come and present it on the committee, which is the representative appointed by the proposer. Well, that's not at all controversial. That's not at all controversial. As far as the meeting plan is concerned, I have already referred to the session plan in my opening statement on the new provision of Article 37, the Bureau's obligation to adopt a plan for the meeting and hope that this plan, the annual session plan, will lead to the fact that we do not have the situation as we have now, particularly these last weeks in light of EU accession. Well, I won't deny that the things that have been going on, and what's going to happen tomorrow with the addition of the agenda isn't good. Well, that would be crazy, so I don't think I should say that this is good and that's the right way to work. But I hope so, and I want to believe that this will change, among other things, because of the adoption of this new Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44104	Thank you, too. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44105	Thank you very much. Well, you and I, we obviously have a different Rules of Procedure in our hands. Because in this whole chapter, which speaks of interpretations, there is nowhere to be said how much anyone has the right to speak, these are general provisions of the Rules of Procedure, where it is defined how much the Proposer has to speak, etc., these are therefore general provisions. And if you apply this analogy to Article 234 what you have said in Article 234 it is not mentioned that the applicant does not have the right to speak after each speaker for 5 or 10 minutes as defined by the general provisions of this Rules of Procedure. So much for consistency. And when you talk about how this Rules of Procedure can be applied, I'm very interested now that the proposal is for the new Deputy Prime Minister instead of Mr Mimica wants all 20 and how many committees do we have to go to propose that they discuss and they name him because Mr. Mimica doesn't have a closet that covers, he practically covered all the areas. What's his parent board? Who's gonna propose to him? And as for the proposaler, he can send his representative to defend the Prime Minister's proposal, not the Prime Minister can't send his representative because he's the Prime Minister, and that's the Prime Minister. Therefore, he cannot send anyone but he comes to the Assembly to defend whether it is at a plenary session or on a committee coming to defend a proposal for a new minister. Therefore, a lot of contradiction in your presentation. And as for the fact that you sent representatives of clubs to make their remarks to the Rules of Procedure, it's logical if someone is doing something to send some work material and then, based on the working material, everyone else is making a statement about it. But as much as you wanted to respect our remarks and suggestions, you can best see from these two discussions how ready you are to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44106	Thank you. We have an answer, Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44107	Thank you. Well, here's what I'm going to say to you: Lucky fellow Shucker and I don't think not often but almost always the same, so here's what makes me a happy colleague. Thus, as regards Article 234, it is very clear that the applicant has 20 minutes at his disposal. Whether he uses those 20 minutes at once or divides them will result from his decision. Just as it will be the right of clubs to share their 15, 20, 30, 50 minutes in accordance with their decision. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44108	Comrade Shucker, please. I beg you, please, fellow Shucker, don't, choose your words. [[Stupid coat of arms: Collateral Shuker Article 234.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44109	.../The speaker turned off the microphone, he doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44110	And what did he say I didn't hear? ... Okay, but I'm asking you to choose the word of your colleague Shucker. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44111	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As for Deputy Mr. Mimica, we will see whether he will be proposed and in what form he will be proposed and what its resolutions will be. If it is proposed in accordance with Article 119. The Rules of Procedure, if it comes from one portfolio, will be discussed before one committee, if it comes from several portfolios in front of a joint session of those committees, several committees whose resolutions are covered, and if it is proposed for a minister without portfolio then it will be the responsibility of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44112	Thank you, too. And the last replica of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, for several days now, you from ruling people have been crying and moaning, you don't even know what to do and how you're caught up in what we're now entering the EU, that's the impression. And I have to tell you the first sentences you've said to my colleague Shucker myself I personally have to tell you that I'm happy as an older woman that I disagree with you in a lot of ways, not because I don't respect young people, but I think you're really talking in a strange way about having a strange democracy because a colleague of the coat of arms in trouble is known to heroes. So what they're saying is that this Rules of Procedure should solve us and these problems today that you say you don't like, so why isn't that settled, so we're talking about very important laws every five minutes. We don't have time, we don't have a debate, we don't have anything. Well, if those few hundred laws were in place three years ago, if we had tried to complete the negotiations of the HDZ government at the head of Mrs. Kosor, who you had not the strength to give a confession at all because God forbid we would have to give it to HDZ and their ministers then that they were really valuable and honest working and that we here in the Parliament about every point that was P.Z.E. coordinated her that we had discussed not one day and five minutes, but we had a different Rules of Procedure. And what you're saying and don't say exactly about the replica, we've warned you about exactly what's going on right now is that we can only speak with the replica, and you've abolished the correction of the incorrect quote, but now you're abolishing and I'm not going to say freedom because you can't end freedom, you can talk, you can do whatever you want in reality, but not long ago, you'll see a very short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44114	Thank you. We have a colleague's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The situation that we disagree obviously makes us both happy so here's at least something that pleases everyone. As for decisions taken, let us call them so under pressure and which must be placed on the agenda for some higher reasons, so that is a situation we will not avoid. If you have followed the recent years of crisis and those EU Member States that have been in crisis and who need assistance and those EU Member States that have provided such assistance. At times, they had to meet overnight and make laws at their parliaments to avoid the consequences of the crisis. And this is a situation we cannot predict, nor can I, as a proposing, allow myself to install in the Rules of Procedure mechanisms that will prevent such a decision if there is an emergency situation. It's about the part about the actions and how it's been so far. And lastly, I have to look back on what you said about Mrs. Kosor. I think Mrs. Kosor is the greatest recognition for her work that exactly your HDZ did when he excluded her from membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44116	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've raised this plate of breach to the Rules of Procedure because of the least of you who are chairman of the Constitutional Committee, I didn't expect this way. You have hurt and offended all HDZ representatives, you have offended me because you are offended by one simple truth, and then you are serving as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44118	Comrade twilight, please, you know very well that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure and you have abused that institute. This is all about perception of what we're talking about in the assembly. So you've perceived it in one of your own specific ways, a certain number of you. You've abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's not good. I hope this Rules of Procedure gives him a chance to live, so if things don't work out, we'll have a chance to correct it. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44119	We are going to the Final Proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The draft act is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the text of the Rules of Procedure is over. The amendments have been submitted, the special table has been divided into MPs. I'd like the president of the motion to show up on the amendments. Let's get this straight. Amendment No. 1st Honored Representative Boris The amendments have been withdrawn? [[Intruder Blažević: All are withdrawn.]] Okay, thank you very much. Let's go to Amendment No. 2nd Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44120	The amendment of Agent Davorin Mlakar to Article 4 shall not be accepted by the applicant. In view of the meaning of the terms of the elected representative, the MPs, given the way in which the mandate is confirmed at the constitutive session of the Assembly and the established selection and action of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, we believe that the provision had to be regulated exactly in the proposed way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44121	I'd like the esteemed representative of Davorin Mlakar to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44122	Mr President-in-Office, the meaning of the amendments that I have proposed in Article 4 is that, unlike the wording so far, the Assembly was to establish itself by electing the President of the Parliament at the first session where the majority of elected representatives were present, the proposal was to establish itself by electing the President of the Parliament and by confirming the majority of the mandates of the Assembly because, as far as I am aware, we are the collegiate body prescribed by the Constitution of 100 to 160 MPs and from language to legal logic, therefore the sound logic requires that this body can be established when most members of that body are elected, and not just one of the first among the equal and that the Parliament enters into its full mandate. Since this argument of the motion is also unacceptable, I ask that amendments be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44123	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. The second respected representative of Davorin Mlakar, who is not accepted by the applicant. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 3rd has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 4. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44124	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSU to Article 29 shall not be accepted by the Proposer. The amendment the Proposer did not accept for a reason because he... the need to enable, rather than deny, equal conditions in terms of the declaration of representatives to an independent representative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44125	I'd like a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44126	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44127	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. The 5th Honored Representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44128	The amendment of Representative Miroslav Tudjman to Article 37 shall not be accepted by the Proposer. The applicant did not accept the amendment in question because the provision clearly laid down the power of the Bureau of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44129	I ask the applicant of the amendment of the respected representative, Miroslav Tudjman, to be made manifest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44130	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, this amendment requires the Assembly to behave, at least in the order and schedules that apply to primary schools. To know when it starts and what hour it works, or what days it sits. Thus, the word plan here is required to replace the calendar because there is a very precise meaning that these words have. Therefore, the assumption is that we should start acting the way all other parliaments in the EU behave to have their own work plan, that MPs can plan their activities and that we know how we can co-operate with our other partners, other parliaments, other committees because today it is simply impossible to organise it. Therefore, I think this is a minimum of one minimum to introduce order into the functioning of the Parliament. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44131	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. The 5th Honored Representative of Miroslav Tudjman, who is not accepted by the Proposer. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. Six is withdrawn. Amendment No. The 7th has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 8. HSU counseling club. The Honorable Chairman of the Board?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44132	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSU to Article 40 shall not be accepted. The applicant did not accept the amendment in question because it is not possible to replace in all the articles the words of the employees with the words of the civil servants and substitutes, because by accepting the amendments, for example, the provision of Article 63 of the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure reads: "The Committee for Legislatives has a President, Vice-President, 11 members of the Bureau and 6 other members are appointed from the order of public, scientific and professional civil servants and deputies."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44133	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44134	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. Nine. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44135	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSU to Article 41 shall not be accepted by the Proposer. Since the provisions of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of the State prescribed that the Secretary of Parliament and the Deputy Secretary of Parliament were State officials, the provision in question had to be regulated in the proposed manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44136	I'd like a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44137	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44138	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Amendment No. 10th has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 11th has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 12. The club of representatives of HSU in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44139	The amendment of the Club of Representatives to Article 52 of the Proposer has not been accepted since we consider the amendment in question unnecessary because the provision in question is defined in a clear way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44140	I'd like a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44141	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44142	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 12 is withdrawn. Amendment No. 13. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44143	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSU to Article 57 shall not be accepted by the Proposer. The applicant did not accept the amendment in question since employees are not active military persons in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act. In accordance with Article 2(1) of the Law in question, the worker/employee is a natural person who performs certain tasks for the employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44144	On behalf of the Proposer?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44145	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44146	Amendment No. 13. Amendment No. 14. Croatian Labour Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44147	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44148	Sustained?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44149	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44150	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 15. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44151	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS to Article 66 of the Proposer has not been accepted. By way of derogation from Article 46 of the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure, it is prescribed that the composition of the working body of the Assembly corresponds to the composition of the Assembly, and therefore the applicant could not accept the amendment in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44152	On behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44153	I thank you, Mr. President. That is precisely why your argument is why we are asking for this amendment and to ensure and define the participation of one representative of the Minority Club in that 14-member quota. So if the Committee, which is certain from today, has 17 permanent members from the EU's most important job committee, there are 6 external members, so it makes up one large body of 23 members and will certainly be subject tomorrow because participation in this committee will be the most politically attractive and will certainly be the subject of many inter-party agreements, we think that this amendment should ensure that at least one representative of the National Minority Club should be participated among these 14 and we do not see why this would not be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44154	You're asking for a vote from Honorable Representative Mile Horvat? Please state the amendment No. 15 SDSS representatives' clubs which are not accepted by the applicant. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to the amendment of the 16th Honored Representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44155	The amendment of Mr Miroslav Tudjman to Article 69 is not accepted by the applicant. The applicant did not accept the amendment in question because the EU security policy as an integral part of the EU's common foreign and security policy is defined by this final proposal in the competence of the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44156	I'd like the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44157	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In part, the rights and responsibilities of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security also include the issue of information security, security-related jobs, police-related jobs, critical structures, cybersecurity issues, the issue of regulating the Schengen area, all of which are elements of the security policy that are in the correlation and relation to the EU security policy. It is therefore not rational to not specify that the issues of security policy and the EU are not disputed that this Committee on Foreign Policy has its own responsibilities but this segment belongs to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. So I'd like to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44158	You're looking for a vote. Please note the amendment to the 16th Honored Representative of Miroslav Tudjman, which is not accepted by the Proposer. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 17 of Honored Representative Tomislav Ivic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44159	The applicant accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44160	I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44161	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44162	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number 18 of the respected representative Tomislav Ivic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44163	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44164	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number 19 of the HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44165	Amendment No. 19 of the Club of Representatives of the HSU to Article 83 of the Committee accepts, in part, in a modified form, that Article 83 is also amended and reads as follows: "The Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership are part of the work of determining and monitoring policy implementation, and in the process of the adoption of laws and regulations it has the rights and duties of the parent body in areas relating to employment, labour and employment status of employees in the public and private sector, pension insurance, labour protection, social dialogue and social partnership, housing policy". The amendment is not accepted in the section proposing to delete the Committee's work on housing policy, since the Proposer considers that housing policy and employment must remain within the Committee's scope regardless of the section of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44166	I'd like a representative of the HSU Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44167	I accept a partial explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44168	Thank you very much. The rest is withdrawn. Thank you very much. Amendment number 20 of the Clubs of Representatives of HSU. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44169	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44170	It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number 21 of the HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44171	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44172	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number 22 of the HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44173	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44174	Thank you very much. Amendment number 23 of the same club of representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44175	It shall not be accepted in view of the reasons given in relation to Amendment 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44176	Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44177	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44178	Thank you very much. Amendment number 24. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44179	The amendment of Agent Davorin Mlakar to Article 119 shall not be accepted by the applicant. The regulation of the provision will allow for the discussion of the proposed candidate by the professional public and at the same time allow any representative who wishes to participate in the debate to do so. In addition, this strengthens the role of the working bodies of the Assembly that are now becoming the central place in which the so-called place of implementation is carried out. the hearing of future members of the Government which is subsequently decided at the session of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44180	I'd like an esteemed representative of Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44181	Your Honor, Mr. President. The applicant's explanation is totally unacceptable. It's about the next one. The Proposer asks that instead of responsibility and debate on ministers that have been conducted in accordance with the Constitution so far, I would say to the democratic achievements of this Parliament in the last 22 years, so the debate at the plenary session is now being moved to a session of the individual committee. I was talking about when I talked about this law, you didn't even enter into the authority of these individual committees to decide at all about a single minister when you look at the structure of the Rules of Procedure you'll see that no committee has in its part a matter of confirmation and hearings of the candidates for ministers, and on the other hand we believe that this is an unauthorized delegation of jurisdiction of the Plenary Session on a particular parliamentary board. The explanation that you are thus strengthening the role of Parliament's working bodies is totally unacceptable. One of Parliament's basic tasks to oversee the government's work. What we were already talking about. I'll refer you back to Article 81. The Constitution. And we are looking, as he said, in the democratic achievements of this House, whether it is about each single minister, whether it is voted on by a vote of confidence that comes at the request of a number of MPs or it is the first time in Parliament to vote on it and hold a debate at the Plenary session. In this way, you want to avoid actually discussing your candidates because you have obviously been taught the experience you have so far been dissatisfied when the story of the appointment of individual ministers has been mystified so far. We're not satisfied and we don't accept this argument. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44182	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 24th Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar who is not accepted by the applicant. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 25. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44183	Amendment of the Club of Representatives Croatian Labourist and Labour Party on Article 119. The board doesn't accept. Basically, for the same reasons as Amendment No. The 24th proposer considers that the provision in question is regulated in a sufficiently comprehensive and clear manner and that it is not necessary to amend it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44184	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative Lesar Dragutin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44185	This Rules of Procedure completely changes the way and procedures of decision in the Croatian Parliament on new members or members of the Government when reconstruction occurs. If a slight shift in quality was that on the working body parliamentary representatives, members of the Committee may ask some of the ministers in the final version of the Rules of Procedure, fortunately now writes that he must and answer questions because in previous texts he has written that if he wishes to answer the question, we consider it practically inadmissible practice that the reconstruction of the Government is carried out on the working body, the parent board or possibly on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. And at the plenary session, the Parliament decides that without debate. Where will the prime minister present the new candidate, candidate for a member of the government? On a working body, committee or plenary session? If parliamentary representatives have the possibility of questioning under this new model, the committee's examination of the Minister shall be held at plenary debate and at least on behalf of the clubs shall be possible prior to the decision. This amendment is therefore an attempt to offer compromises, agreements between authorities and opposition in which we will decide on new members of the government. And this compromise proposal is not acceptable to you because you are running away from any debate over a new member of the government during the term of office. And the boards will probably be working on a secret closed session that I don't happen to know that a new member of the government was at the committee hearing at all. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44186	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 25. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, which the government does not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. The 26th is the same content, we've already decided, I don't think there's any need. Let's go to Amendment No. 27. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44187	Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – The parties of work on Article 122 shall not be accepted. The Government should be given a deadline within which it is obliged to give the Parliament an opinion on acts which are not proposed by the applicant could be incorrectly interpreted as directly dependent not only on the content but also on the dynamics of the government's work which is not acceptable at all. The main constitutional task of the Croatian Parliament as the holder of the legislative authority is the adoption of laws and other acts. It is precisely this authority that requires independence in discussion and decision-making, decision-making. Taking into account the need to preserve the independence of the Croatian Parliament in the exercise of its constitutional and business powers and respecting the non-binding nature of the Government's opinion, the applicant did not accept the amendment in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44188	On behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44189	In order for others to understand what this is about, it is therefore a provision of the Rules of Procedure which obliges, i.e. giving the Government the opportunity to give its opinion on the act when it is not the Proposer. The Rules of Procedure provide for President-in-Office's obligation that any act he has received from the authorising officer may also be legislators, the Club of Representatives must also deliver it to the Government. The Rules of Procedure provide that the Government shall give an opinion on the act when it is not a proposing. But there's no time limit in that provision. So the government can write an opinion on the opposition proposal for 3 years and 11 months and 29 days. And we just suggested that this government thinking could last for the longest 30 days. I mean, a decent deadline. But the explanation of why it's not being accepted is amazing. Be careful to interpret that the Government dictates the dynamics and content of Parliament's work, if our amendment is accepted, and that the government's opinion is optional. Now kindly please, for nine years back, find an opposition proposal which was discussed on the working body, the parent board and an open plenary debate without the ruling majority asking for the government's opinion, waiting for the government's opinion and refusing to put that point on the debate, with an explanation that the government's opinion is waiting. So good people what we're doing? The government, therefore, is not binding, but until it comes to me in Parliament on opposition proposals we will not discuss. If you'd just said no, it would have looked a lot smarter. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44190	Please state the amendment number 27 of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club which the applicant does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 28 of Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44191	The amendment of Agent Davorin Mlakar to Article 128 shall not be accepted by the applicant. The applicant did not accept the amendment in question, given that the applicant considers that by introducing this institute, in the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure and by regulating the provisions, all policy options are allowed to express their position, respecting the quality of work at the meetings of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44192	I'd like the esteemed representative of Davorin Mlakar to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44193	Dear Mr. President, I will take this opportunity to invite colleagues from the position to take the seriousness of such interventions in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We are fighting here to protect the little position of Parliament as long as there is still all these strong interventions of our coalition government. It's about the next one. It is that you again want to raise one person, the person of the Prime Minister and enable him to come to Parliament, speak not only about the work of the Government, but also about the state of affairs in the state of affairs, problems, etc., on some deadline set by this Rules of Procedure, and in some way raise the Prime Minister in importance above the Parliament to which he corresponds. Our amendment went in this direction to allow the Prime Minister to speak about the government's work, but only at the invitation of the President of the Parliament to which the Prime Minister answers. So our amendment said that, at the invitation of the Prime Minister of Parliament, once a year, the Prime Minister presented to the Parliament a report on the work of the government, that this presentation could last for the longest hour and that after the Prime Minister's speech, what clearly the Prime Minister does not want, the debate opens and discusses the report. You here protect all together with us in opposition to the dignity of this House. Your mouth is full of Parliament's dignity, occasionally when it is questioned in some way. This is your chance not to allow us to have the government's supremacy over Parliament and to vote on this amendment that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44194	Are you asking for a vote? ... Please state the amendment to the 28th Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar, which is not accepted by the Proposer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's for? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the need for most of it. Amendment number 29 of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club, the Honored Committee Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44195	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers-Parties to Article 129 is not accepted by the applicant in the light of the same reasoning as the amendment of the esteemed colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44196	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44197	So the Prime Minister comes to the Croatian Parliament and submits a report on the government's work in 60 minutes. Only representatives' clubs can discuss his report under this proposed Rules of Procedure. What about the term of office? Who went to the election, representatives' clubs or people's names and names on the lists of parties, non-party and any other. Who handles or accounts to voters, representatives’ clubs or MPs? And if once a year the prime minister comes before the Parliament to give a report on what the government has been doing, and to deny the right of MPs to lead the debate is to create a playbook, a play, a form satisfaction. Because at the end of the day when clubs are visible for another 20 minutes, the Prime Minister has the right to speak, without the right to replicate and to expose him without the right to replicate his final word. Is this a parliamentary debate about the work of the Government or the play, a play for the public that will certainly be passed on on televisions of all possible, and no other significant law in this stampede we had a month ago has been passed on and will be satisfied and we will say that we have a high degree of democracy in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, when the power is changed, that provision will injure many. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44198	Thank you. I ask that we make a statement on Amendment 29. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club which the applicant did not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 30 of Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44199	The amendment of Agent Davorin Mlakar to Article 129 shall not be accepted by the applicant in the same explanation as Amendment 28 to which this amendment is related.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44200	I'd like an esteemed representative of Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44201	I have to admit, Mr. President, I'm off to a bad start today. I have failed to pass with any amendment proposed so far. This amendment is the consequence of the previous amendment, and it is that you are again allowing as Parliament the Government to play a more important role in the state than Parliament has and that, instead of the provision of the Constitution that the Government corresponds to Parliament, we are increasingly approaching that Parliament is responding to the Government, or that it will not be able to respond very much because we have reduced the time for it, and in particular to some MPs, the possibility to present not only their views at all, but I will repeat that, but the views of my electoral unit that they are here in Parliament. It is unacceptable for you, as the majority of Parliament, to allow each new article of the Rules of Procedure, to reduce the importance of each of the laws in front of Parliament, the value of this Parliament, in favour of the Government which should be held accountable to that Parliament. We cannot allow the Prime Minister to be a special person in a state outside any regulation because it does not allow the Croatian Constitution to do so at the very least. Since you refused and the previous amendment, I have no illusions at all, but I am still asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44202	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number of the 30th Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar who was not accepted by the motionor. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 31st Honored Committee Chairman, Croatian Labour Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44203	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – the parties working on Article 136, the applicant does not accept. In order to enable the receiving of a more comprehensive and precise reply, the applicant did not accept the amendment in question since it considers the proposed solution to be in order.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44204	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44205	The working title of this amendment could be to give me the Rules of Procedure, sit down, Zorana. Current morning MPs ask a minister or minister, we have two minutes, and they have 4 minutes to answer. Okay, but here comes the sequel. That every response given by a member of the government to which the representative has asked the question the Prime Minister has the right to supplement the answer, of course for another 4 minutes. But you know how many reasons? He's doing the most comprehensive and precise answer. I'm concerned about the health, ability, coverage and accuracy of the other members of the government. Because if the prime minister or the majority in Parliament thinks that ministers do not know how to answer the questions of MPs, but they need a tutor who will supplement their answers, then it is pointless, then such an actual morning is not really necessary. Then all questions must go to the Prime Minister and no one else. Isn't that a smarter solution, more democratic, cleaner, clearer? Can I change the amendment? Representatives can only ask questions to the Prime Minister to anyone else. Of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. But don't forget, I remind you, you'll soon see what kind of situation you'll be putting the prime minister in, but on the first current morning. We'll make you a circus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44206	Thank you very much. You're looking for a vote. I ask that we make a statement on Amendment 31. A Croatian Labour Representative's Club that the promoter did not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 32 of Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44207	On the amendment of Agent Davorin Mlakara, the Committee shall, in accordance with the provisions of Article 171(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament did not show, since it is identical to the amendment of the Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44208	I'm asking the applicant for an amendment, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44209	Here's another bright explanation, Mr. President. Namely, what my colleague Grbin said was that they did not consider this amendment because it is similar, it is not exactly identical to the amendment of his fellow Labourist, and then the board, since it is working towards the Rules of Procedure of the plenary session, did not discuss it at all. This is a special case and a problem for the committee, for the Constitution to suppress also any debate because it limits it exclusively by strictness of the Rules of Procedure of the plenary session. But this isn't an opportunity for us to talk about it more widely, but it's clear for everyone else to understand. However, I would like to say that there is now something from the position of ruling, as my colleague Lesar said. You'll have that head of yours very soon. In fact, a Renaissance character appeared in Croatia in the person of Zoran Milanovic, and it is then concluded not only that he can speak as much in Parliament as he wills, when he wills and unfortunately what he wills, but also that he is still given the opportunity to supplement the questions that MPs ask to individual ministers, and the Proposer forgets that our Rules of Procedure enables us, if we wish, to ask and ask the question. So if we have the right to ask a question to the President and Vice-President of the Government who was last surprised by it, and I see no reason why, when we decide to ask the individual minister his question, the Prime Minister would answer, except for this supplementation or clearer interpretation, as counterpart Lesar said. This is a pointless, unnecessary provision, the provision that is most damaging to you, which you suggest to suggest that you delete the Prime Minister's supplement because of your own dignity and the proposal of such regulations. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44210	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number of the 32nd Honored Representative, Davorin Mlakar, who was not accepted by the motionor. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 33. Croatian Labour Representatives' Club. I'm asking the board president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44211	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour-Second Working Party to Article 146 shall not be accepted by the Proposer because the provision of Article 148 of the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure allowed the interpretation to be included in the session agenda of the Assembly immediately after the report has been submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44212	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44213	Boring to the Rules of Procedure, when someone initiated an interpretation of the government's work, the deadlines for sending from the Parliament to the government were eight days. Now these eight days increase to 15 days. For what reason, what's the problem? To correct all happiness and that provision that the interpretation will be placed on the agenda of the current session, unlike the original solution only at the next session, is not an argument of the rejection of amendments that the Government must be manifested in 8 days and that the President of the Parliament in 8 days when it receives the impellation must deliver this to the Government. What's the argument? What's that supposed to increase to 15 days? And I don't understand what you're saying about what you really believe or what you're told to say? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44214	Thank you very much. Please make your statement on Amendment No. 33. A Croatian Labour Representative's Club that the promoter did not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 34th of the same club of MPs. I'm asking the board president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44215	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour-Parties to Article 147 shall not be accepted by the applicant with the same explanation given in addition to the article, with the amendment no. 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44216	I'd like a representative of the representative of the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44217	With the same explanation as before, I am asking for a vote because indeed the arguments, the reasons for the rejection of the amendments, we cannot understand, understand the intention, will, the objectives of such obstruction of parliament's democratic majority when it comes to the interpretation of the government's work, which I am sure they will never launch because it is always an opposition. I kindly ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44218	Please state the amendment No. 34. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club which the applicant did not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 35th, that's the one that's been withdrawn. Amendment No. 36. Croatian Labour Representatives' Club. The Honorable Chairman of the Board?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44219	Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers- Party of Work on Article 178, the applicant did not accept. The purpose of prescribing the deadlines in question shall be examined in the fact of the inclusion and discussion of the acts in question on the agenda of the sitting. In view of the need for the adoption of certain acts, the dynamics of work in the working bodies and the session of the Assembly should be as co-ordinated as possible by the working body president as possible, i.e. by the President of the Parliament. In addition, there are no business obstacles to the draft acts adopted by the Assembly in the session agenda and to the debate and to be adopted without a report from the working body, and even if the working body submits a report, the Assembly may always decide otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44220	I'd like a representative of the motionary club of Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44221	Yes, one word, and actually two, can generally have a strong impact on the quality of the legal norm in the Rules of Procedure. The integrity of the Croatian Parliament is broken, we have no reputation, people are less and less trusting. What did the debates look like and the course of the session in the last two weeks? When did we find out about the agenda points when they were going to discuss? We asked that there be a provision in the Rules of Procedure that, at the end of the session, the President of the Parliament, not as a rule, must say what we will begin tomorrow, and at the beginning of the session, dictate or publish on these screens the agenda points to be discussed that day. Not as a rule, but as a future commitment. Neither is that, nor is it that in the morning at 9.30 you know what points we will discuss today and the obligation to inform parliamentary deputies is not acceptable to you. And this word basically means we never know anything. So that we wouldn't forget who was against and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44222	Please state the amendment No. 36. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club which the applicant did not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. 37th of the same club of MPs. The Honorable Chairman of the Board?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44223	Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party to Article 179 shall not be accepted for the same reasons as Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44224	I ask the representative of the representative of the respected representative Dragutin Lesar to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44225	I'm on my way, I'm barely talking, so put it to a vote and drop all the smart proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44226	Well, please make your statement on Amendment No. 37. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club which the applicant did not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 38th Honored Representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44227	The amendment of Mr Miroslav Tudjman to Article 179 is not accepted by the applicant. It would mean that the Croatian Parliament directly depends not only on the content but also on the dynamics of working bodies, which takes into account the need to preserve the independence of the Croatian Parliament in the exercise of its constitutional and business powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44228	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44229	Thank you, Mr. President. We have not had that provision until now, namely you have a provision here that the presidents of the home working bodies are obliged to put and put forward proposals of the law to debate and discuss this on the parent or working bodies. What happens if the presidents don't get involved or if the debate doesn't take place? And then you give if it doesn't matter, then you get rid of those working bodies. What are they for? What logic is that? So far you've had a procedure if the president doesn't call then the President of the Parliament can call on certain deadlines and that's defined. Therefore, this is another proof that the role of the parent bodies is also wanted. And when we look at other articles of the law of these other proposals on the government's and parliament's relationship with European affairs, then de facto everything comes down to it we have most of it, we've had enough of all of these possible obstructions that we who haven't been in Parliament have had the opportunity to track out what it was like in the last session when Vice President Stazic seems to have been doing that obstruction, but the procedures have been defined. Therefore, if you have then defined in the paragraph that the presidents are obliged to put it on then please be sure to state what happens if it does not happen. So I'm asking for a vote, and this has really already crossed every line of decency, let alone brains.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44230	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 38 of the respected representative, Miroslav Tudjman, who was not accepted by the motionor. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to amendment number 39 of the respected representative Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44231	The amendment of the representative, Marija Lugarić, to Article 223, accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44232	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. We are going to the amendment number 40 of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs, the Honored Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44233	Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists-Parties of Work on Article 224.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44234	It becomes an integral part of the final proposal for the Rules of Procedure. Amendment number 41, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44235	The amendment of MP Miroslav Tudjman to Article 228 shall be accepted by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44236	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal for the Rules of Procedure. Amendment number 42, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44237	Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers-Parties of Work on Article 228.Proposer does not accept. The proposer did not accept the amendment in question so that, given the dynamics of working at the Parliament's session, the work at the session could be co-ordinated more independently by the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44238	On behalf of the Proposer Club, a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44239	However, I do not accept an explanation for the rejection of the amendment and therefore ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44240	Please state the amendment number 42 of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club which the applicant did not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to the amendment number 39 of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club in the Croatian Assembly of the Committee Presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44241	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour-Parties to Article 234 is not accepted by the applicant. In order to increase the quality and better organisation of work at the meetings of the Assembly, the provisions in question have been arranged and the amendments in question have not been accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The final proposal of the Rules of Procedure set out that the Bureau sets out the annual plan of the Assembly and will contribute even more together to a better organisation of work, and thus to greater security in the deadlines for discussing all topics at the Assembly meeting, with a special indication that this is about an exception rather than a rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44242	Please, on behalf of the Proposer Club, a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44243	Now let me make one thing clear, so you have refused and spoken about the reasons for the rejection of the amendment that speaks of the Parliament's presidency's right to propose to the Parliament who, without debate, can decide that an item of the agenda is being discussed for an hour. Is that the amendment? So far, the solution has been that, with the agreement of all the clubs of MPs, the Parliament can conclude that a point will be discussed one day. The provision is now being introduced that on the proposal of the Parliament Presidency, and I would remind you that in Parliament's presidency, the parliamentary majority always has a majority, a parliament without debate can vote that the state budget is being held for three hours and mathematically there to share that time into the representatives' clubs. It's a democratic step, it's the development of parliamentary democracy, it's respecting the fact that we have different attitudes and essences that a parliamentary representative in the Parliament has the right to speak. The calendar will arrange what, I don't understand. The Bureau will plan every day of the session and then propose to limit each item's discussion without any consultations and arrangements with anyone. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44244	Please state the amendment number 42 of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs which the applicant did not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 34 of Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44245	The amendment of Agent Davorin Mlakar to Article 234 shall not be accepted by the applicant for the same reasons as Amendment No 43.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44246	I'd like an esteemed representative of Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44247	Pity Mr. President, here's no last chance to fix the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The point of my amendment was that it was not only possible for the Parliament's presidency to limit the time for discussions on certain points of the agenda, which would not only limit the presence of individual MPs but also take the right to speak to them on a particular subject if the time envisaged had already been exhausted before anyone who wanted to talk about something had come to the agenda. And although this ruling coalition is without limits in its imagination when it proposes certain provisions, you have suggested that local elections no longer require a man to have a business ability to choose or be elected to a certain duty. According to the Law applicable to the election of MPs in the Assembly, parliamentarians still have to be citizens and have 18 and over years of life must also have a business capacity. The Bureau of Parliament is a gathering of the first among the equals. And we have yet to be deprived of our business ability so that the Presidency of the Parliament should decide, instead of the representatives, how much, when and what we talk about. It's the meaning of the amendment, and that's the meaning of something that I'm also telling my colleagues in the position. Do not let five people in Parliament's presidency decide when and how much you will speak. And I said in the debate on this Rules of Procedure, we only need one more provision to prescribe and what we can say. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44248	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 44th Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar who was not accepted by the motionor. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 45. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44249	Amendment No. 45. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – Working Party on Article 250, the Proposer does not generally accept for the same reason as the amendment No. 42. The proposer did not accept the amendment in question, given the need for the adoption of certain acts of labour dynamics at the Parliament meeting, the co-ordination of the President of the Parliament should be as independent as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44250	I'd like a representative of the representative of the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44251	We have a regulation in our Rules of Procedure that the session ends as a rule when all points of the agenda are exhausted as a rule. However, it is generally that at least 30 points of the agenda remain unsettled from each session. And always the same, you know... These must be the opposition points of the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they are being entered into the agenda of the next session. At the next session, on the first consolidated agenda they are from point 35 below, in the second consolidated agenda they are from number 85 further. And they end up about at the end in 159 places. If the words of the Rules of Procedure were to be respected and the meetings were to be completed when all the points of the agenda proposed by the President were exhausted and the Assembly adopted on the agenda, then this amendment would not be necessary. And what are we offering with the amendment? Those points that were concluded at one closed, completed session remained unsettled that at the next session they must be priorityd from seat number 1 to place how many points remained unsettled. In order to avoid even the reports of state bodies submitted to the Assembly by the annual report, we discuss the annual work report three years after the calendar year has passed and, of course, to avoid manipulation that opposition proposals fall out of the agenda of each session because they are constantly moving. Of course, most can always refuse to do so after the debate and show the strength of the majority but you show the strength of the majority and the muscle by playing with the agenda. If you accept this amendment, you will show that you have at least a minimum of political jurisdiction towards the political minority in the Parliament. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44252	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 45. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club which the applicant did not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. And finally Amendment No. 46th as the last amendment, the Honorable President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44253	The amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 295 shall be adopted by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44254	Thank you very much. It shall become an integral part of the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Your Honor, Agent Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44255	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, it is one of the fundamental acts and certainly the fundamental act under which all the clubs are working, all the representatives in this House. Since here we have again experienced that the promoter has rejected all our amendments, we are looking for a 15-minute break for the club's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44256	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44257	In accordance with Article 225 of the basic Regulation, I request a 15 minute break from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in order for the Club to agree on how to vote after this shameful refusal of quality amendments to repair the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament 1. 7th member of the European Union with the 19th-century Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44258	Thank you very much. I'm taking a 15-minute break. We're here at 12.45. ... Well, that's fine. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll see you at 12.45. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] MEETING IN 12.25 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.40 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we can continue the plenary session. I ask the representative of the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament to make their views known on behalf of the club. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you are, Your Honor, Agent Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am convinced that the Croatian public is expecting a completely different debate today, that it is sensitive to the issue of a European arrest warrant and that it is a dominant topic in all our discussions and in all our media, so that I would say the debate on the Rules of Procedure is of second-rate importance to the Croatian public. However, this Rules of Procedure, as a basic instrument of work of Croatian representatives, is not of second-rate importance to us. He is uninteresting with the ruling because they have already found that it will continue to work in this parliament. I have to say the evaluation of the HDZ Club, this is a shameful amendment to the Rules of Procedure that seems technical, but in its essence, it's deeply anti-democratic. This is an intervention in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament with which you further wish to destroy the right to freedom of speech, freedom of opinion and the expression of your professional and political views, and that is why we believe that such intervention in the Rules of Procedure is inadmissible. Whether it will have to change again in a year or before because of all these interventions you have entered, it remains to be seen, but in this way violates regulations, violates already established democratic practice in Parliament and in the end violates the intentions and ideas of the Croatian Constitution is something that you cannot be allowed to do. And the fact that with these interventions of the Rules of Procedure, I will repeat it for who knows which time, you put priority in the political life of this state in the government, in the executive power, and you ignore the value of Parliament is something that we as parliamentary representatives cannot tolerate. The principle of parliamentary democracy is still in force that the government is responding to Parliament, and regardless of your diabolical attempts to change this relationship just because you have the obvious order of your government to give it more space in Parliament and to spare her reasonable criticism is something that Parliament must not vote on. That is why I have appealed to the explaining amendments, and again I call on colleagues from the position, it is today something that may suit the government, the government thinks it is appropriate for her not to hear a critical opinion and not to hear a different opinion from what she has, but in that case you are mistaken and in a year it will be a problem because you have brought such a Rules of Procedure because you will not be able to articulate the views of your electoral units when it is necessary. It is not possible by one act that is lower than the Constitution to regulate the relationship between Parliament and the Government rather than by the Croatian Constitution. And while this constitution is in force, the government will answer to Parliament, the government will account for Parliament and cannot be the other way around. And that is why it is unacceptable for you to reduce the importance of the Croatian Parliament, to reduce the importance he had as a legislative body in his 20s and some years of life in the independent Republic of Croatia. You are reducing what was a difficult pain in the election status of the Croatian Parliament and when we did not have our own state. Some who have entered historical speeches in this House are mentioned today because of an advocate for the importance of the Croatian Parliament, and you are destroying it today, I would say to a simple Rules of Procedure. This work will take revenge on all of us, but we, as Croatian representatives in Parliament, will not support your idea. We will stand up by all means against this kind of violation of democracy and freedom in Parliament and we will not participate in such acts as you present to us. So we have said and we will repeat, we will not stick to this Rules of Procedure, vote for it ourselves, and we will work towards the former Rules of Procedure because, based on such regulations, we have entered this Parliament to advocate the values for which we have been elected to Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44261	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44262	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. They objected to me when I just said that this Rules of Procedure is back in the 20th century, at 19th actually. They say in the 19th century the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure was democratic, the 20th was problematic. I apologize for this historic forgetfulness. A few days ago on the Committee on the Constitution, an external member of the Committee, Prof. When we opened the discussion on amendments to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs is the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the That's his professional attitude. And indeed, although it is called the Rules of Procedure, most of it is governed by the democratic relations between the majority and the minority in the Parliament. We pride ourselves on taking most of the other laws and regulations to protect all kinds of minorities in Croatia. However, these Rules of Procedure make it impossible for the political minority to act and work in accordance with not only the Constitution of fellow Members of the Mlakar, but also the oaths we gave as parliamentary representatives. The text of the oath that obliges me to comply with the law, the Constitution, the work and the responsibilities of the Assembly must now be changed, installed inside two, three words that I can work, speak and propose when the political majority approves it. Otherwise, no. You have no right to propose laws or other acts, because we will not put you on the agenda. When we put it on the agenda, we won't open the debate, and if we accidentally open the debate, of course we won't accept anything of yours. That's what it says on the cover of the new Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister has no replica, or at the address of the Prime Minister, there is no replica. He answers final questions to members of the government. The government is reconstructed without discussion at the plenary session and you call it rationalization, better work by the Parliament. Then I'm giving you another suggestion. Let's keep moving. Please enter into the transitional and final provisions just one more point. On the day when the Parliament determines the items of the agenda, the ruling majority shall immediately vote all the laws, and the opposition representatives may submit their proposals and reflections by means of an e-mail or the Infodoc Service of the Assembly if they are used by e-mail. And then we rationalized Parliament's work to the maximum. This sarcastic proposal is a translation of the contents of the Rules of Procedure if it is adopted. You can shake your head, you can replicate me, you can flirt with those who ordered you to adopt such a Rules of Procedure. The truth, the essence, the oppression of the rights of opposition advocates, you will not be able to hide or justify. And that is why I call on all MPs who disagree with such a Rules of Procedure to leave the Chamber, not to participate in the vote, to show not only their differences but to show the public that only part of the Parliament has brought and adopted such a Rules of Procedure. And those who wrote it and who insist on adopting it sooner or later will be ashamed, because they will see all the new conflicts you will make us work to fight for our rights and to honor the oath I made. The Croatian Labour Club – the parties of work leave the hall during the vote on this shameful, rude imposition of the non-democratic Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44263	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party club, Croatia's respected representative Igor Dragovan. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44264	The democratic practice in this Parliament has shown diversity in different stages especially different when other parliamentary majority were. As for this parliamentary majority, when it was in the parliamentary majority, it always showed consistency and the same rules of play. And when she wanted to change the rules of the game, she did it openly, honestly, transparently and in front of the political public. For every move we make, for every law and decision we make in this House, we make our own bills to Croatian citizens. So we have learned, so we will behave in the future, unlike those who can hardly accept the fact that the trust of Croatian citizens in the last parliamentary elections is expressed to the other parliamentary majority than theirs, and there are probably reasons why we still have to look at today before Croatian courts. We face a new challenge, Croatia enters the EU, we have a whole new experience in the work of this Parliament, in the work of Parliament within the EU, and if there is a need to change some other things in the Rules of Procedure, so it is not a holy letter. We'll change that. Therefore, at this point in time as a message to the Croatian public, it is our opinion that with this kind of Rules of Procedure we will speed up, show our work in a better way, we will be much more dynamic, and if the challenges show that we need to change some things, so we will change them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44265	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the log-in list. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please plead with your hand. The Rules of Procedure require most of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. Can we get a score? I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 3 abstentions were adopted by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44266	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 411 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports at the session. We have the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Marian Cesarik. Deputy Minister intro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44267	Thank you very much. The law therefore transposes the Directives into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Directive 2005/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. The legislative proposal regulates the system of recognition of the qualification of healthcare professionals in accordance with a directive guaranteeing the persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States access to the same profession and the same rights in the exercise of that profession in another Member State as well as the nationals of that Member State. Next, Directive 2011/24 of the EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 on the application of the right of patients to cross-border healthcare in the part relating to the responsibility of the State to ensure that all healthcare professionals directly in the form of professions provide health care to the population from the harm that might be incurred in the conduct of healthcare. Next, Council Directive 2010/32 of the EU of 10 May 2010 implementing the Framework Agreement on the prevention of injury to sharps in the hospital sector and health care in such a way as to introduce, as one of the health care measures relating to work and the working environment, protection measures to prevent injury to sharps for healthcare professionals who directly provide health care. And for unhealthy workers who can be injured by sharp objects. The legislative proposal shall regulate the work of the body of health institutions during the recovery procedure. The legislative proposal regulates the founding system of leases in primary health care and in a new unique form. The legislative proposal also provides for the possibility for healthcare professionals in private practice, health institutions and companies carrying out health activities in accordance with specific regulations to provide medical services in tourism for which they are authorised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44268	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Vice-President Željko Reiner. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44269	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. So here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act with the label P.Z.E. And that's why we're discussing this law today. It's almost seven hours, four days before entering that European Union. And at first glance, you could naturally ask the question that has been raised to all of us for the last few weeks why the Law which means alignment with the European Union that we know to enter for months and months, a year, a year and a half, why it has not come before us if it is a alignment with the European Union. It is declared to be a alignment with the European Union directives with three directives, once adopted in September 2005, the second adopted in May 2010 and the third adopted in March 2011. Well, all that time, there was no time to bring these few articles together with the directives and to settle it, and not wait seven hours four days before the entry into the European Union. However, I want very clearly to say, under... P.Z.E. a whole series of other articles shall be inserted thereon, except for the harmonisation of these three Directives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the most important hand on the heart here. So let's see what this is really about. Therefore, first in the assessment of the situation mentions some things that do not exactly stand out, for example, that education for healthcare professionals 5 regulated professions is in line with the directive in such a way that the integrated curricula has included practical teaching and they will not be followed by this proposal of the law in order to carry out the traineeship and to pass a professional examination. Let me translate what that means. At first, it's not true that there's an integrated curricula. It certainly does not exist in all universities and in all medical schools in Croatia. If it does not exist then we will have a situation where this Law abolishes the internship, the mandatory traineeship, and the passing of a state-run expert exam is abolished. What consequences that will have, I daren't think. Because this will produce doctors who, without a single day of practical training, will be able to compete immediately and may theoretically get specialization from, say, neurosurgery or cardiosurgery without working one day in practice with patients. If they hadn't passed some state exam that would give them confirmation that they were ruling certain medical, not November, medical skills, that they knew the laws of the area. You don't learn that at the studio. The laws and the Constitution were also subject to the state expert's examination. Now there's no more state-of-the-art exams. Therefore, all countries, I want to say very clearly, have some form of practical work after the study and then some form of verification. It's not called an internship everywhere. For example, in Spain, young doctors prepare for their national expert exam for a year. We don't have it now. Some forms of medical knowledge check, I reiterate, not a student that is acquired during college but practical knowledge exists in the vast majority of countries. There may be no Ukraine or Georgia or any other country. But let's just say, if we compare ourselves to those countries where we enter the circle in four days, then they have it all. Some have been asking for two years, so they call it clinical experience, for example. For example. in Switzerland if you want to work late at the hospital then you must obtain this clinical experience in primary health care. And vice versa, if you want to work in primary, you have to do it at the hospital. In the Netherlands, it's a little bit different-looking, but they all have it. We won't have it anymore. We've had it so far, we won't have it anymore. Then, what else do we have, much of this law is dedicated to recovery. It has nothing to do with entering the European Union, so I'm saying it's a whole series of things. The Sanitation Council is being discussed where it is defined to manage the facility during, listen well, the duration of the recovery, and two years after the decision on the completion of the recovery is made. What that means is that an emergency administration is being put in place, saying in advance that after one day a resolution that can end in half a year or in a year, that two more years they will be there in their positions. Directors have been executed, administrative councils have been executed, the political likeness of which has been set up by the resolution managers and the resolution councils which are now being given legitimacy after being placed after these legal provisions have been laid down. It has nothing to do with the European Union. But since it is known and I've talked about it more than once here, that the so-called recovery won't solve anything in Croatian health but it'll be spent by no one living knows, now it's about 3.3 billion, and it's been said that the debts are 7 billion. No one knows alive, that's what my colleague and Shucker and I have discussed here many times. But in any case, billions will be spent, and since nothing has been resolved systematically in the health care system, new debts will be created. That's totally certain. And the renaissance managers who are politically similar will be placed very soon, in half a year, at the latest in the same situation as their predecessors because of course when the funding is too little and the costs are increasing, of course there will be additional debts. Now, however, in order to avoid being able to say that they are not able to do so, they are exculpated in advance in this Article 14 because they say, if there is a loss in the activities of a health institution which... founder in accordance with Article 56 of this Law, except in the event of a loss due to a delay in the achievement of the planned revenue. In that, the problem is that the planned revenues are not realised, so all these institutions are in a deficit. And now it's said here that they can, if they keep on doing so they can still be, so we're not going to move them like we said that the previous directors have to move because they didn't work, because they were creating debts. When they create debts, it's justified. So that's Article 14. In several articles, for example, in Article 20, the Ethics Commission of the Medical Institution may appoint a Sanitation Council and shall make it at least 5 members, of which at least 40 members of the sub-represented sex. It's certainly not a good solution written like that. What does a sub-represented sex mean? If you were to say that there must be a balance between the two sexes, then you should have said it so clearly because the sub-represented sex in health is at this time men. There are far more women in health care than men, so I don't know what it was going to do with it, but I'm afraid it's not going to achieve what I think is going to be achieved, which would be a good thing, which is to be at least half the women in it, but it's not seen out of this, unfortunately, and it doesn't guarantee it. What is bad is where the Committee on Quality is spoken and Article 22 says the Committee on Quality must be represented by representatives of all activities. It may be so in county hospitals maybe, but when you look at a clinical hospital that has 20 and some activity, I think 27 or how much more, then you'll create a huge body that won't be functional and that won't do the job that should be done. There are, of course, good things, I am happy that article 28 puts organised promotion of health and mentioning measures to promote health and preserve the improvement of the health of the population, etc. Then we come to article 32, which is very interesting. He's made it very clear to say to replace the current National Health Council. That's the only reason he's put in and a few minor changes have been introduced in the formulation. One is that at least 40% of people under-represented should again and be mentioned in the National Health Council's sayings give an opinion on gender change. I would like to tell you very clearly that the current National Health Council, which will follow this, and then very clearly in article 54, says that within 60 days, the Minister will propose to the Parliament and then vote on the new National Health Council, the current National Health Council has on several occasions warned that it should not give an opinion at all on gender change but should decide and make a solution based on the prescribed documentation of the Ministry of Health Service. Why is this so, because when it comes to decision-making on the rights of the party, it is necessary for the parties to have the right to file a complaint or action, and that is only possible if an administrative procedure is carried out which the National Health Council cannot implement, but the Ministry of Health may. Since the National Health Council adopts its opinion on the prescribed form, but without the memos and stamps, because it does not have them, it cannot in itself be the basis for amending the basic entry in the parent books and then it is unconditional to include the National Health Council, and it is immediately, by its own composition, not and cannot be qualified to assess the value of the medical documentation on gender change. And therefore, we have proposed that this should not be at all an object, subject matter or group of items to be decided by the National Health Council because, ultimately, the National Health Council plays a completely different role under the current law. It exists primarily for the purpose of studying health problems, giving and proposing expert opinions in the field of planning, programming, development and other important health issues that are important for the Republic of Croatia. Now you see, there is a problem, none of these issues have been resolved by the National Health Council because, despite its demands, it has not received this opinion from the Ministry of Health, including neither the famous National Health Development Strategy from 2012 to 2020, nor any other document that could achieve this in law-defined issue of giving, proposing opinions on planning, programming, health development. So, now it's changing, and now it's going to be dealing with probably only gender change, I don't know what it's qualified for, or can do it well. Article 47 brings us back to that question that I mentioned at the outset, which is a problem, unfortunately, that we will create, and that is how two types of health care professionals are created. One under a quote under a new programme that will not need any internships or state exams and another that will have to go on internships. So, we will have two types of health care professionals and greatly complicate the situation in which I say again in four days we are entering the EU. And just to tell you today, 10 young colleagues came to the Croatian medical chamber and asked them to leave, the conditions to go to Norway from Croatia in a situation where we lack doctors and we create situations where there will be several types of staff with a professional exam, without an expert exam, what an internship, without an internship, etc. If it was already wanted under the EU and P.Z.E. company except for these three minors to push through something more, then perhaps the existing articles that are not the most happily solved could be improved. For example, Articles 8 or 9, the contents and powers of the state and units of the regional and local self-government where the provisions are inaccurate, mixed, contradictory, non-transparent for implementation, etc. For example, it could have changed, but it hasn't changed. For example, the issue of the existing regime, for example in existing Articles 40 to 43b. the applicable law, therefore, the existing public health care regime in the form of a concession may only carry out certain activities in primary health care, which is neither transparent nor in accordance with European, global practice, which allows for the concession of almost all health activities treated as public health services. We share them in the existing law. That could have improved, for example. Or the existing founding regime could be reconsidered and adapted to European and world experience in practice, for example in Article 44 of the applicable law. So that the home of health, for example, can form a city, etc. which he could have done under the 2003 law. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] So, a whole series of things could be fixed but it didn't fix itself, but it went into some things that have nothing to do with joining the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44270	Thank you, Vice President. Here's four lines, there'll be a chance. The first one came to Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Reiner, when you were talking about the internship and taking the state exam, or expert exams, we all have such enquiries and very often we do not know whether or not we should answer, and here we are clearly told by the articles of this 36th and 37th Law, respectively, where they tell us who actually has an obligation to conduct an internship, i.e. to pass a professional exam. You also mentioned, and it says "integrated curricula." However, the problem is that in Croatia I only think the Split Medical Study has conducted this integrated curricula and you were right when you said that we would actually have two types of health care professionals who would end up and it doesn't matter whether you ended up in Split or whether you ended up in Zagreb or at some other university. However, I must remind that this is not a matter of today, or that it is not a matter of the current government, or of the current law, because you know that the lack of a doctor who is seen to be actually thinking about a simpler way, so that this internship is actually avoided and it has been said that, in fact, it will be abolished by some kind of legal proposal. But I think it's not a yes or no position, that these are deeper things because if it's not put enough into an integrated curricula, it's adequate what we are when we graduate from college because we know all of us who have studied such colleges that we have to admit that there's a lot more theory than practice. And now that we're done with college, then we know, we're standing in front of the wall, so we don't have practice in ourselves. So I wonder if it's an integrated curricula thing, is it appropriate to what we've been going through all year of internships or state exams? But it's not even the Ministry of Health, but it's a matter of course and the Ministry of Science and we're wondering, Which is why no study reform has actually been carried out. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Because we know you mentioned yourself that this one directive since 2005 is now talking about professions, i.e. The same rights that they should have all the professions that are similar. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44272	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44273	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I agree, of course, with everything you've said because we actually agree on that. What I'm not happy with. If we have an unsettled situation, and we have it obvious that it is better to fix it first, then make a thorough amendment of the law, but now with two, three articles try to partially solve something, and actually solve nothing, rather than create new problems. And in that sense, I was talking. So we have an unsolved situation that's clear. Our curricula isn't integrated, and we pretend that on one occasion we have that not to cancel the internship, cancel the state exam instead of waiting and try to find a solution to that problem unrelated to when it's caused, who caused it, but to try to solve it. And we're not going to solve it like this, so we're just going to make our lives complicated to ourselves, and we're going to make it complicated to these people who are going to have to work on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44274	Thank you. Next replica Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44275	Thank you, Vice President. Ma colleague Reiner my replica is actually very similar from a colleague before me, and I'm sorry you didn't actually stay today, that you had to leave the board because apparently part of your club doesn't think like you. Today we had the opportunity to listen to Mr. Milinović and Mr. Marasovic, who praised it terribly where Mr. Milinović boasted that just in his term, the University of Split had gone to an integrated model and that it was a very good model and that it was actually a problem that Rijeka, Zagreb and the University of Osijek did not do so and that his idea was to abolish both the internship and the state exam. So now I don't know what the HDZ Club thinks about it because today we've had a chance to hear the exact opposite of yours. And my second replica goes that the 2005 Directive you mentioned to the 2005 Directive that, you'll have to ask why someone else had not introduced that directive by 2011 or 2013 because this directive did not have to be introduced now, could be introduced from 2005 to 2011, and I think that another Government was in power at that time. And you said that there were actually minor things in these directives. One of the things I want to point out is I don't think it's even minor, and you'll have to agree with me, it's insurance of health care professionals from responsibility. I think it's extremely important, that it's not a minor matter at all, and today on the board, there was a lot of praise for that directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44276	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Representative Zeljko Reiner Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I was, of course, expressing my opinion here, and we don't all have to think the same thing, at least we don't all have to think the same thing at the club, I don't know maybe some others have to, but we don't have to think the same thing. And as for that, that's the problem. If something is introduced, no matter what I personally think about it, whether it's good or not, then it makes sense to build it up, implement it into the law if it's really implemented, but you agree and I don't. If one university did it or at least said it did it, and the other is not a happy decision to pretend that they did it all and that sort of thing was introduced into the law. So that's where you'll agree with me. Surely, then, that is not a happy solution. As far as this is concerned, I agree when I was talking to a minor I meant under sharp objects. That was clear to you, too. As far as insurance is concerned, that's good, of course it's been introduced. Fortunately, we mostly have such insurance and lawless enforcement because the necessity has forced us all to do so, so that's something, but I think it's certainly good that it's in this law. But again, I say these three things are really minor and really less important in relation to these other things because you will allow us to say the issue of rehabilitation and rehabilitation councils and the whole concept that is now nicely underneath, so to speak, to put the counter into something that is harmonising with the EU that has nothing to do with joining the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44278	Thank you, too, Vice President Dom. It is up to the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. ... Most of it refers to the Sanitation Council and the Sanitary Managers, but by today we do not know how much money will be spent on that recovery and what all the people who are dealing with this fiscal part and also medically claim that this recovery will in principle not do anything, because in healthcare it will not change anything. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] But it's very interesting that the government has made a decision to resuscitate the health care with 3 billion and 250 million, today we read that HZZO's director paid off unauthorized or illegal 3 billion and 200 million. However, what we put in place last week when there was a debate on the Health Insurance Act, and this is what it needs today... the basis of which decision has been entrusted with that 3 billion 250 million and the basis of which the decisions adopted by this House of Commons have been paid off? Because neither in the state budget nor in the financial plan of the HZZO, and the financial plan of the HZZO covers only a cold drive so as to say the Insurance Office has no costs, it is not stated. Second, there is no credit in the State Budget Act, and there is also no guarantee that even though extra budget users are mentioned there. So, on the one hand, under the cover of the Sanitary Councils and the Sanitary Managers, they want to carry out shifts in hospitals and introduce one new way of managing, and on the other hand, those who talk so much about transparency are totally intransparently borrowing money and allegedly rehabilitating health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44280	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honorable Representative Zeljko Reiner, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shuker, of course, we have discussed it, and you and I have discussed it several times, but of course you are looking at this financial aspect which is logical because you are from this profession, and I am looking at this essential problem, and that precisely because no system reform has been made, no real change in the way health is organised that everything is actually going to continue the same way as before. Because when you have the kind of funding that we have in Croatia, when you have a situation here yesterday at my clinic for a patient who's been spent somewhere around a million and 400 thousand kunas can be charged, or about 100 times less, I'm not exaggerating but 100 times less, so about 14 thousand kuna, and it's spent objectively on drugs, on care of that patient, etc. So 100 times as much money we have nothing further to talk about. Of course this will continue, of course, not to stop such severely endangered patients from being treated, the system remains the same as it will only generate "new" losses. They're not those losses it's spent money on caring for patients, but since the system remains the same as it is unchanged, debts will continue to be created.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44282	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44283	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner, you said about the recovery that was put into this law as a European norm. Namely, recovery and rehabilitation councils are carefully planned to take over county hospitals, and the next way is by downsizing by 4 billion 126 million kunas of budgets that are legally linked to the health insurance budget on the one hand, on the other hand carefully planned by taking away monthly and annual limits, the value of the points is also... funds. Parish hospitals have been brought into an impossible situation just to introduce rehabilitation councils, take over management and continue debt. One thing I'm going to say, the value of the point for the eye count cost was 4500 kuna now dropped to 1400 kuna. So imagine what a difference that is and what a system that could have been from such a level in a year, how much more surgery should be done, spent material, electricity, hours of work and everything else in order to achieve the same effects. There are problems as there have been hospital problems through the reduction of funds and in the state budget, equally in the reduction of the limit at monthly level so that hospitals no longer have to pay. Sanitation managers have not been introduced, recovery councils have not started working, general lawlessness has arisen, chaos and hospitals are no longer paid, let alone for basic assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44284	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44285	Dear fellow Djakic, I must tell you this is not only a problem for county hospitals, it is a problem for hospitals owned by the state of KBC, etc. Yes, it is true that in the last year or so, about four times in the last year, it seems to me that it's been reduced to four times, a reduced budget or a limit to hospitals, so less and less money has been given to the functioning of hospitals. The prices determined by HZZO by the principle of cadiya sues, cadiya judges, they determine as much as they have money, unrelated to whether they're objectively spending far more money, but they don't have the money to say that some search or procedure costs so much, so much money. The fact that it does not cover is of course no one can solve and thus create debts and county but also clinical hospitals and clinical hospital centres. And I repeat, since no single system change has been made, no system procedure in the health care system of course debts will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44286	Thank you, too. It is the SDP's Club of Representatives and the respected representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendments and additions to the extremely important Health Protection Act are encouraged by the need for the existing law to comply with the provisions of the EU Parliament and Council Directives. However, as is the case with esteemed counterpart Reiner himself, the law also makes some additional amendments that are not related to the provisions of the directives mentioned in the reasoning of the law. We at the SDP club support them even though they go under P.Z.E. Although they are going into emergency procedures because we think they are not essential, that these changes are not reformal. And besides, it has proved necessary. We thought we'd agree on them. These changes are aimed at better functioning, more clearly defining and removing possible ambiguities, and in this regard we believe that, despite the fact that they are not the subject of the directives mentioned, they are still welcome. And so, as counterpart Reiner has been said in the law, mentioning the bodies of health institutions that are under recovery, so as you know well, the Ministry of Finance has passed the Law on the recovery of public institutions, but it has been shown that there is a need for further clarifications concerning, above all, the regulation of the powers of the sanaciary administrator, the Sanacia Council, the expert council of health institutions in the recovery process. And we believe that regardless of what is being said at this point and what is said, that these additional clarifications will certainly be useful. The law also provides for the possibility for healthcare professionals in private practice to be able to provide health care services in tourism to health institutions and companies carrying out health activities in accordance with specific regulations. And the truth is, it's also not about not talking in directives. However, we do very well, that it is positive to remove all the barriers that are possible for health tourism to become an even more important and stronger segment of the industry in Croatia. I think that, in the SDP club, we believe that the last moment for Croatia to launch a more dynamic and systematic initiative to engage in world medical tourism, or the world medical market, which continues to grow at an annual rate greater than 15%. So the growth trend will certainly continue in the future. And it's probably the only industry that hasn't recorded negative trends in years of recession. Our country, I believe that we will agree on this having exceptional but unfortunately insufficiently used resources based on numerous natural, medicinal properties. For example. Germany realises over 100 million overnight stays at the annual level and 30m euros in revenues. Slovenians, however, should also be a very good example for us, which with 15 Slovenian Terms realizes three million nights and about 200 million euros in income. On the contrary, Croatia cannot even compare, let us not compare with Germany, let us try to do so at least with Slovenia. So the figures are in favour of Croatia's not taking advantage of all its potentials in that segment. In Croatia, I think it is data for 2011 of a total of 12 million overnight stays and 7 billion euros in income Croatian spas realise only 200 thousand overnight stays and about 0.6 million euros in revenues. So let us not forget that by entering the European Union, foreign patients will have the right to treat in the Republic of Croatia, our health institutions and will then be able to refund the cost of their insurance home. We therefore believe in the SDP Club that any removal of barriers and dentistry and plastic surgery and orthopedics and physiotherapy should be welcomed, and everyone who will help medical and health tourism become the fastest growing segment of industry in Croatia. We certainly have all the resources for that. I mentioned some segments, so which this law regulates and which are not directly related to the directive, we support them because, as I pointed out at the outset, they aim exclusively at better functioning, clearer definition and removal of possible ambiguities. As far as the directive is concerned, we have already heard, one regulates the system of recognition of the qualifications of healthcare professionals. Today, there was a lot of talk about both the internship and the traineeship and the state exam. There are two problems I could say completely separate from one side and on the trail of what my colleague previously replicated by her colleague Reiner, the question is what we want. The fact is that a medical study takes 6 years, that it follows a year of traineeship, that it follows 4 to 5 years of specialization, so a young man after enrolling a medical study has to go another 12, minimum 12 years before he gets, before he practically enters the labour market. Do we want to change that, do we want to know if we don't have the docents when we talk about scientific and teaching activities, doctor, if we want to have them at 45 I don't know, maybe we decide that's what we want. But if we want to change things, then we have to be more tolerant and accept some newspapers. As for the story of the internship, so who, who won't have to go to the traineeship, whose study with the integrated curricula will recognise the traineeship and whom they won't, I'd say it's a classic Croatian story again. In fact, it all started in 2010. In Croatia we have four medical colleges, all four medical schools had to comply with the European Directive in 2010 and they had to start with an integrated programme. So I'm asking you now if in 2010 we started talking about how someone in Croatia could have finished students under this integrated programme. It wasn't possible, it was possible that someone in the students for 4 years would apply something that others started in 2010 and have a result that they had. So, I think we should call things a real name. All in all, we believe that the amendments to this Act are very good and the SDP Club fully supports them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44288	Thank you, too. Now we've got replicas. On your presentation of the first replica and respected representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44289	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague of Romana you said that further clarifications would be useful, but we haven't heard how you explain those recoverys resulting from a 40% reduction in value... Unit values by 20%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By reducing... Funding, reducing the total resources of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute of 4 billion and 126 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you're saying is that better subsidisation, clearer definition of the problem, that's what you're talking about, and you said you'd explain it all. Tell me how you mean by planning revenues that are clearly defined by state laws and taking them in health care you want to improve health insurance and you put it in some kind of European, compliance and law that absolutely has nothing to do with the relationship. Tell me how for a price of 3,000 and 100 kuna less can achieve the same effect we're in one activity and that's ophthalmology, so eye surgery? Where is it? Where are the hips? These are all reduced values 40% of the point value and unit value. So, here's what you're simply explaining how you're going to achieve for the sanitizers, their expert councils of new value... /The speaker is excluded./... which are county institutions, which are also known owners. When you made it impossible for them to work absolutely that had quality, correct, filled suits, which had officers who were valuable and hardworking, who were saving on all possible items, while today Mr. Linic announces no longer needing hosts, no need for drivers, no need for kitchens in hospitals. Nothing needs it anymore, it will all be done by external services for which bankruptcy councils will call competitions. What do you think they'll be cheaper than those who work for minimum wages in those facilities and get everything that our patients need?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44290	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44291	Thank you very much. A colleague, Djakic, is about debts that the system generates for a very long period of years. It is about debts generated by the HDZ government, debts that will not just disappear, and I can agree with you that big changes and reforms are needed to settle debts. We've already listened and seen many reforms that haven't affected, but what do we do, stick our heads in the sand like a noose? We believe that the rehabilitation of public health institutions will simply be one process that requires the recording of the existing situation, to see which segment rationalisation can be achieved. So while both reform and fundamental reform changes are being done at the same time, at the same time we need to record the existing situation. Therefore, this law mentions the resolution of health institutions in that segment in which the powers of individual bodies of health institutions need to be further clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44292	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44293	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Jerkovic, you said that, in addition to harmonising with EU directives, I would not mention, some more new articles had to be adopted, to be updated in order to clarify. Well, they had to be colleagues. We are here today in 19, and almost 30 are discussing this law, and the government has appointed rescheduling managers on the basis of which the law is based on June 13th for Sisak General Hospital and some today. Look at the government pages. And it's a miracle that some who made big debts, and they took in 2005. The General Hospital in Sisak plus 3 million kuna, today 10 times larger in minus, and some for example. in the carlovian hospital she changed. However, this is also about some policy colleague, Jerkovic, not all of it is about harmonisation. I am interested in who these clarifications are and who are being served by these additional articles in the Health Protection Act, which we are discussing today on June 26th at 19.23, and the Government has already appointed a sanaci administrator a week before, according to which criteria, according to which law, in the mass of general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44294	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44295	... Just two things you mentioned. [[Specially enabled.]] One thing is, I agree with you absolutely that Croatia does not take advantage of its potential in health tourism. That is true and unfortunately we are incomparably worse than Slovenians, let alone Hungarians or Austrians or Germans etc. However, do you really believe that the two paragraphs of one article of the law will change that and that the items which say exceptionally of paragraph 4 of this Article do not have to be available to the tourism health service company in the field of performing health activities on the occasion of the submission of the request for a solution referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article. This will solve health tourism in Croatia and provide us with billions. Unfortunately, no, it's a much more complex problem and it won't help the whole story. And speaking of recovery, I agree with you, a reform that should be made, which you and I agree with is a long process, but there must be a vision. For a year and a half, the visions didn't happen, and now there's a recovery, and there's still no visions, and they're just gonna start shooting now after a year and a half, and then I don't know how much time it's gonna come up with, and what it's going to go in, what direction it's going to go in. In the meantime, new debts will be created, and I'm talking about it and it's a shame. It's a shame she didn't have the first vision, made some concept, and then went into rehab because this is how unfortunately a lot of money will be given in paying off the debts, and the new one will still be created, quite certain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44296	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44297	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, if the part relating to tourism in the law is so irrelevant and in your opinion nothing will change good or bad, then I no longer understand why it bothers you so much. So I said in my statement that these changes that are being made are not essential and not reformal and that we were sure that you would accept them without a problem. Of course, if they were essential and reformal then a new health care law would be passed. So then the remark on your part is kind of llar pur lar. And as far as the rescue is concerned, you said that hospitals, that all this together doesn't make sense, so the procedure or the entry into the recovery of health institutions doesn't make any sense because we haven't implemented the essential reform things that would lead to health debt being generated anymore. I don't just believe it. As I said, I believe this is the beginning of a process that the rehabilitations of health institutions will take a long time, and I am sure that the minister with his most important team is working on reform changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44298	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It's the honorary representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44299	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here it is, I'll try to be as brief as possible since we still have a lot of agenda points. In my debate, I will focus on article 32, which, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, also mentioned fellow MP Reiner, Vice-President of the Parliament. In this article, it is stated that the National Health Council will give an opinion on gender change. This is usually the situation that is now being introduced into the Health Protection Act, and so far it has been regulated by the regulation. And that regulation passed the HDZ at the very end of last, in fact proposed by Prime Minister Kosor's government almost at the very end of last term. And so far, the situation has been such that the National Health Council has rejected absolutely all the requirements that went into gender change, so at this point it is actually de facto impossible to obtain from the National Health Council confirmation that you are allowed to change the gender enrolment in the national queens which, in my opinion, is in some way expected in view of the composition of the National Health Council in which no person who is an expert in birth dysphoria sits at this point. I must admit that, to some extent, I have been surprised by this provision of the law, given that it has proved to be ineffective so far, and that, of course, it causes a lot of problems with persons with gender discomfort and a little bit of hope, the basis of this law will change the composition of the National Health Council so that people who may have a little more sensitivity for this issue may also be sitting in it, and that, in the composition of the new National Health Council, this provision, referred to in paragraph 2 of the same law, which speaks of the fact that in the conduct of the tasks referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the National Health Council will be able to request the opinion of other experts. This has been the case even now, regardless of all the opinions of the experts on native dysphoria so far, the National Health Council has not granted a single request from persons with congenital dysphoria. I believe that this issue should be resolved in a different way and I hope that in the future, the Ministry of Health will consider resolving this issue differently. In fact, some European countries address this problem in the way of a special act, regardless of whether it is a law or a sublegal regulation, which concerns the systematic care of persons with gender dysfunction, where one commission composed of an interdisciplinary team of experts on gender dysfunction decides on different issues related to gender dysfunction, therefore not only these issues related to the change in gender enrolment in the national matrix. I hope that, here is the Ministry of Health to pass a regulation that will regulate this issue and thus allow normal to say the quality life of these people who unfortunately in Croatia still live in big problems regardless of all living in order not to tell hell.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44300	Thank you very much. There is one replica, respected representative Željko Reiner vice president of the House and replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Holly, I'm very sorry. You're obviously misinformed. It is not true that the National Health Council has not granted anyone enrolment in the queen, or gender change. It's simply not the correct name, so check from your reliable sources and you'll see. But it's true what you said that the National Health Council will be replaced with this. So it's going to be replaced because it's not like that. That's right. But not because it didn't give anyone a gender change to say so or to enroll in the queen. However, I want to make it very clear again. The National Health Council, therefore, was first declared on several occasions that it was not professionally trained to give full assessments. And, in fact, it proposed amending the rules, or it proposed firstly that the National Health Council did not decide at all on this because we held that this was not the role of the National Health Council. I still mean it, I still mean it, and it's not happy what's been done for that reason. Secondly, if it is wanted from precisely that the National Health Council has proposed that it should be able to call on the relevant specialists and other experts at the session when considering documentation at the session in order to be able to give their expert opinion. That's what we totally agree on. But that's what we are, it's exactly what the National Health Council proposed, and nothing has happened and nothing has happened until now when the National Health Council will be replaced. Not because it didn't give anyone away because it did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44302	Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44303	I did not even say that the National Health Council would be replaced because it had not issued any solution, or approved any request. According to the information available to me by the National Health Council has not granted a single request, you may have granted a request where a surgery of gender change has already been made, which was not at all controversial and was not necessary because in the existing State womb Act, there was already the possibility that changers would sign up the basic gender code on the basis of the surgery itself. This applies to all the other problems, and you know very well what's going on. It is therefore the case of persons who are unequivocally identified by experts by gender dysfunction. And it is not possible for such persons to change the registration of gender changes in the state womb because the National Health Council has not granted any requirement for such persons. In other words, this person is forced to go to a surgical sex change operation, which is contrary to absolutely any standards of the world related to his or her birth identity. And that is why it is unacceptable that the National Health Council, which I agree with you, is not how to say qualifiedly to decide on these issues but did not take into account the medical documentation of both endocrinologists and experts such as psychiatrists and psychologists who have identified birth discomfort in such persons you did not approve of such requests. And that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44304	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for this hearing. Does the motionary's representative want to? No, I don't. Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote on the final bill when the conditions are met. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 411. The debate on the final bill is over. The government submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please plead. Who's up for it? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? There isn't. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 81 votes accepted to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the proposing representative to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Deputy Minister of Health, Honorable Marian Cesarik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 163 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit the following amendments to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act: Amendment No. Article 27 is amended as follows: "In Article 100, subparagraph 23, the words "and treatment" are deleted. Under subparagraph 34, subparagraph 35 is added, which reads: "It may carry out professional environmental protection tasks in accordance with specific environmental protection and air protection regulations."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44307	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 1. Who's answering for a word? No one. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia No. 1. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Thank you very much. Please report on Amendment No. 1. Government of the Republic of Croatia. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 1 abstentions are accepted. 1. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 2. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Your Honor, Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44308	Thank you very much. Article 28 is amended as follows: "In Article 101(2) beyond the word "must have" the words "organised health promotion" are added, and the words "prevention and non-patient treatment" are replaced by the words "this prevention". In paragraph 3, subparagraph 15 is replaced by the following: 17. which reads: "can carry out professional environmental protection tasks in accordance with specific environmental protection and air protection regulations. It also performs other tasks for the purpose of carrying out public health activities in accordance with specific regulations." The proposed amendment no-technically aligns the provisions of Articles 27 and 28 of the final proposal for a law with a view to a more precise definition of public health activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44309	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 2. Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. 2. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 22 votes are abstentions to Amendment No. 2. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 3rd, Your Honor, Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44310	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits the following amendment to the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act: Article 35a, which reads: "In Article 131(1), the word "to" is added. The proposed amendment shall allow the duration of the traineeship of healthcare professionals to be implemented in accordance with the Regulation referred to in Article 136. The health care law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44311	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour and 26 abstentions are accepted by Amendment No. 3. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has become an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state by raising your hand who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 79 votes in favour, 27 against and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the health protection law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Now we move on to the next item of the agenda. - Final proposal of the State Border Control Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 418; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Interior Minister Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44313	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, I will try very briefly for a summary of this law. This now applicable State Border Control Act was adopted at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on 15 October 2003 and entered into force on 8 November 2003. Following this, in order to bring state border surveillance matter into line with the EU acquis, the basic text of the State Border Control Act has been changed and complemented several times during 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2011. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Control of the State Border during the pre-accession period in Croatian legislation have been adopted by several directives and regulations of the Council of the EU and of the European Parliament concerning the obligation of carriers to supply passenger information, rules of cross-border movement of persons of the Schengen Borders Act and rules on cross-border transport at the external borders of Member States. The adoption of the provisions of the EU rules relating to specified matter has been made to complete legal gaps in national legislation resulting from the absence of norms that regulate this matter in order to ensure the establishment of the capacity for their application and implementation. However, as EU regulations will apply directly by the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia, and immediately become part of the national legal system, it is necessary to amend the Law on the Control of the State Border in such a way as to exclude previously adopted provisions of the EU regulations so that the same matter is not normised in two different rules. Also, the proposed law with regard to the content of EU regulations includes provisions laying down the body responsible for their implementation as well as appropriate infringement provisions sanctioning behaviour contrary to the rules establishing EU regulations. It is pointed out that, in relation to the content of the applicable State Border Control Act, the proposed law does not pass any more important newspapers, and the creation of a new law instead of amendments and additions has been approached in order to facilitate the nomotechnical arrangement of the text, given that the applicable law has experienced a number of extensive amendments and additions and its further amendments and additions would certainly contribute to the non-transparentity of the content and the difficult application by its addresses. What is most important to point out, which is always the question of data protection, i.e. personal data collected under this law in special collections prescribed by this law. The collection of these data is prescribed by the Schengen Borders Code, and given the importance of this matter, especially in relation to the protection of human rights, these provisions remain essential in this law, i.e. in Chapter 8 and they are identical, i.e. compatible with the legal property of the EU and all police of the EU Member States that collect them in the same way, in the same way, in a prescribed manner and all in order to protect the borders and citizens of the EU. Those databases shall be kept in writing or electronic form for up to 10 years from the date of entry, which shall be governed by a special regulation adopted by the Minister of Interior. The provisions laid down in Chapter 8 apply in principle to all passengers subject to border control. However, it is pointed out that to EU citizens this means that from 1 July 2013, only basic border control is applied to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which implies a rapid and direct check of the validity of the travel documents and the swelling of the existence of counterfeiting signs. Exceptionally, if there is a suspicion of illegal migration, a threat to public order or national security, the verification can be carried out exclusively by using technical devices and by checking in the databases of stolen, verified, lost or invalidated documents. Scanning IDs or travel documents of EU citizens including our citizens can only be carried out exceptionally on an unconstitutional basis on the basis of passenger profiling, and not every single passenger. The police officer will no longer ask EU citizens questions about the place of destination, the purpose of travel and the possession of means of restraint. At all border crossings where there are conditions for EU citizens, it means that citizens of the Republic of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation will also be assigned special tapes for access to border control, so a priority approach to border control over third-country nationals. In this connection, it is noted that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as EU citizens since 1 July 2013 can cross the borders of EU Member States and third countries in our environment of BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia and Serbia with valid ID cards issued after 1.1.2003. For the citizens of Montenegro, Macedonia and Serbia, the current way of crossing the state border with a passport is, while the only change compared to BiH, which since 1 July 2013, can cross the state border with a biometric passport without a visa in that case, i.e., early travel documents, must obtain a visa if they have what is in line with EU requirements. The proposed law is divided into 10 chapters, I don't want to bother you now with these details, chapter 1 talks about general provisions, chapter 2 talks about the body and powers to control the state border, the 3rd talks on crossing the state border and the border crossings, the 4th border control, the 5th border line and the protection of the state border. And what I would just like to say may be a little wider in chapters 6 and 7 is prescribed by border police in the interior of the state and international border cooperation with officials of foreign security authorities. Chapter 8 provides for the collection, storage, processing, use and protection of data necessary to carry out police work for the purpose of controlling the state border and carrying out other tasks prescribed by the proposed law. Chapter 9 contains infringement provisions on the basis of which it is sanctioned not to comply with the provisions of the proposed law and not to comply with the provisions of the two abovementioned EU Regulations. Finally, in Chapter 10 of the transitional and final provisions, deadlines shall be laid down in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministers are bound to adopt the implementing and implementing rules necessary for the implementation of this law. So the proposed law, in the end to point out once again, does not bring the paper on the normation of state border surveillance matter, but, by means of this bill, in an appropriate way transparently systematises its previously established content and also fulfils the obligation to remove national rules which duplicate the content of the EU regulation in the light of the upcoming membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. In order to ensure, on the one hand, the effective implementation of those Regulations and, on the other hand, the cross-border control operations, border controls and the protection of state borders continue to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of national legislation and EU provisions which will be applied directly. It is not necessary to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44314	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the HDZ's Club of Representatives and Honored Representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister Tonkovic, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to say in the beginning that the HDZ Club will support this law. But I will take advantage of this opportunity to warn of a few things that might happen, or the application of this law could be made possible. It is said in the assessment of the situation that, in view of the content of the applicable Law on the Control of the State Border, the proposed law does not pass any more important newspapers, and the making of a new law instead of amendments and additions to access it in order to facilitate the no-turning of the text, given that the applicable law has experienced a number of extensive amendments and additions, and its further amendments and additions would certainly contribute to the non-transparentity of the content and the difficult application by its addressee. I am obliged to warn myself that especially in the most recent part of the Republic of Croatia from Vrlika, via Sinj, Imotski, Vrgorec and over Dubrovnik to the part that binds to the head 3 and the small border crossings. In crossing the state border and border crossings, it is said that, with the previous opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the competent authority of the neighbouring country, the Minister may set a temporary border crossing if necessary to maintain short-term activities such as cultural, religious, scientific, professional and tourist activities. On Friday, we talked about the amendments and additions to the Household Act, so we said that we should do everything in order to fill the state budget, and in this respect I must warn about crossings precisely at these small-time crossing points where it is now impossible to work continuously on transportation, passenger and car transport at least during the tourist season. So please, if possible, the Minister may make a decision to do so during this summer season, which is certainly part of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. And it will actually make it easier to cross the border precisely in these disputed areas. What is not visible from this Act and this is because we are from practice we know that in these border areas we have frequent fires, it is not possible to cross the state border unless it is permitted to drive fire trucks. That's what I'm saying from practice last year and before last season that happened to us in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area. I think it could be arranged by this law, too. I believe that by supporting this article on the 10th, you will allow the inhabitants, i.e. passengers and cars, to pass this summer at small-time crossings from Vrlika, Sinj, Imotski, Vrgorac and Dubrovnik. In that faith, I say once again we support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44316	Thank you, Your Honor. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. Does the motionary's representative want to? Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the Law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the State Border Control Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 418. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 108 votes for the adopted State Border Control Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44319	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, about the set of the Law on food problems. We are talking about the Final Proposal of the Food Act, the Final Proposal of the Food Hygiene Act, the microbiological criteria for food and the Final Proposal for the Law on Official Controls to be implemented in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and animal welfare. All three laws are adopted in order to comply with legislation in the European Union, i.e. to implement relevant regulations and regulations and decisions of the European Council and of Parliament and of the European Commission. In fact, these three legislative proposals replace the current 2007 Food Act, which normably contained regulations and decisions that have a direct effect under membership conditions. The general objectives of the regulations and acts of the European Union for which all three laws are adopted are: to provide a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human health, consumer interest in relation to food, in particular taking into account differences in food supply, including traditional products. Furthermore, ensuring the effective functioning of the internal single market of the European Union, which since 1 July this year becomes the Republic of Croatia, further setting out the general principles governing food and food for animals, and in particular the safety of food and food for animals at European Union and national level. The establishment of basic principles and responsibilities, means of creating a strong health base, effective organisational mechanisms and procedures to support the decision-making of food and food safety, the establishment of general rules of food hygiene and microbiological criteria for food and thus the obligations of food operators. In addition, ensure compliance with the rules on food, feed and animal health and animal welfare rules and establish general rules on the organisation and implementation of official controls carried out to verify compliance with the rules on food, feed, animal health and animal welfare, identical to those laid down in the European Union. Just a few sentences about the Food Act. The law is adopted to ensure full implementation of Regulation No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and conditions of the Food Law establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in the field of food safety. This law also provides for the implementation of other rules of the European Union, a total of eight regulations and decisions governing the traceability of food and food for animals, a system of rapid... for food and food for animals, the management of crises in the field of food and feed safety and cooperation with the European Food Safety Authority. The law regulates the area of food and food safety in such a way as to prescribe provisions at national level that determine the authorities responsible for implementing food safety policy, namely the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health and their tasks. Furthermore, the competent authorities in the field of risk analysis, the activities of the Croatian Food Agency body other than the national reference point for the assessment of the risks in the field of food and food safety, the system of rapid... for food and food for animals and general rules on the management of the food and food safety crisis, the authorities responsible for carrying out official controls and competent inspections, in this case the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate, the conduct of persons authorised to carry out official controls of inspectors, depending on established non-compliance, national measures for the implementation of food safety policy and administrative measures and criminal provisions. The second law in this set, the Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food, in fact, constitutes a full compliance and implementation of the EC Regulation No. 852/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 2004 on food hygiene and Commission Regulation No 2073/2005 of November 2005 on microbiological criteria for food. This law provides for the implementation of two regulations of the European Commission which prescribes the approval of calling facilities and the monitoring of temperatures in means of transport and storage of fast-freezing foods. The law regulates the general rules of food hygiene and microbiological criteria for food in such a way as to prescribe provisions at national level which determine the obligations of food operators in relation to food hygiene, the bodies responsible for the implementation of the laws and regulations, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, their tasks, the bodies responsible for carrying out official controls and the competent inspection. In the Ministry of Agriculture, these are veterinary inspectors, agricultural inspectors, health inspectors, the conduct of persons authorised to carry out official inspection of inspectors, depending on established non-compliance and administrative measures and infringements. And the third law is the Law on official controls carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and animal welfare. The law is adopted to ensure full implementation of Regulation No 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on official controls carried out to verify compliance with the provisions of the rules on food, feed and animal health and animal welfare. This law also provides for the implementation of three European Commission decisions laying down guidelines providing for the principles for the implementation of the audit, guidelines for Member States' assistance in the preparation of a single integrated multiannual national plan of official controls and guidance for Member States' assistance in preparing an annual report on a single integrated multiannual national plan of official controls. The law regulates the area of official controls of food, food for animals, animal health and animal welfare in such a way as to determine the competent authorities and their tasks relating to the organisation, coordination, implementation of official controls by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate, the implementation of... food control, animal health and welfare control shall be governed by the way and the cooperation and communication between competent authorities and, where appropriate, other bodies related to the planning, implementation and reporting in official controls, the system of official and reference laboratories shall be regulated, the sampling and analysis procedure shall be prescribed, the obligation of entities whose operations are subject to official controls and shall be attributed to the obligation to adopt a uniform multiannual national plan of official controls and to carry out official controls. Final proposal for a law implementing Regulation No 2003/2003 on fertilisers. It shall be governed and determined by the full application of the European Union Regulation concerning the production and transport of mineral fertilisers. Namely, the regulation itself concluded that the EC-labelled fertiliser can be placed on the market of the European Union with full respect for the freedom of movement of goods on the European Union market. This applies to all products originating in the Member States and to those originating in third countries, and to the fulfilment of quality conditions and marked as EC fertilisers. In addition to this important element, the regulation fully regulates the quality of the fertilisers marked with the EZ fertiliser, the obligations of the fertiliser manufacturer, the packaging or the fertilisers that are changed in any way, the way in which the fertilisers are marked, the content and appearance of the fertiliser declaration, the characteristics of the fertiliser packaging, the tolerance from the defined content... for certain types of fertilisers, the conditions for the authorisation of the laboratory for the quality of the fertiliser and the method of sampling and the determination of the quality of the fertiliser. In order to implement this Regulation, the following questions are therefore addressed to this law: a specific Ministry of Agriculture as a competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation, the tasks of the competent authority, the prohibition of placing fertilisers on the market, the notification of the European Commission to the Member States of authorised laboratories and the adoption of new and amendments to existing rules have been established. Furthermore, the competent authority of market surveillance shall be entrusted to the Agricultural Inspectorate. Laboratorys for carrying out inspection surveillance have been established, and these are authorised by the RS Laboratory under the Law on fertilisers and soil improvers and EU laboratories authorised by the basis of Regulation 2003/2003 are governed by this law and infringement provisions. At the same time, the existing national legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia is defined by the Law on fertilisers and soil enhancers and belonging to sublegal acts. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44320	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee want to take part? They don't file a report, okay. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. The Croatian Democratic Community club is next in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Đurdjica Sumrak. Here's your esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44321	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, There's a set of laws in front of us today. I'm not gonna say it's eight o'clock late. However, I am always very sorry that these agricultural laws, whenever they come in most cases, are always late in the evening and are always united and very often we do not have the possibility of any real debate because there are no MPs. But here we are, I guess, who are interested in us, I hope that in the future we will treat this important branch in Croatia differently. So I'm going to start this debate with these first three sets of food laws, and I'm sure it's good to remember, and why in reality we can bring all these laws together is precisely because we have brought our legislation into line with the regulation of the European Union, we brought it into line in 2003, in 2007, I'm talking about the Food Act. These laws apply to Chapter 12. - Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary surveillance, and I must say that it was one of the more difficult chapters to comply with. We have at least over 500, 600 regulations that were passed after the law was brought into line and here are some rules today that are out of force. However, regarding this law, with this set of three laws, I will first say it is important to say that they are now in line so that they can be implemented from 1.7, which is in a few days when we become a full member of the EU. Why are these laws important? Well, of course, they're important not only for the health of us humans, but also for animal health, which is to prevent and risk us as a consumer in food selection. What I would say at first that all of us as consumers are already over these years we are perfectly educated about it, educated about everything. Excuse me, please, my colleagues can only be a little quieter. I'm sorry. Don't be mad. Thank you. [[/The President's incursion: here you go.]] If consumers were well informed about both nutrition and protection, therefore, food properties, that they had an important role in this not only of the relevant ministries, I would say in this and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, but we must say that the Ministry of Economy also played an important role in this, especially in the consumer associations. To show more and more and more standards and requirements regarding responsible and true labelling, that is, food declarations, it is also important to stress this about these three laws that we have united. It is also important to say that the globalisation of the market and urbanisation and the general change in philosophy and the concept of lifestyle also increased the risks of biological, chemical and physical food contamination. It is also important to point out that we witnessed the 1990s, so now I can say last century's different zoonotic epidemics. So the diseases of which both animals and humans were equally sick, so they passed from animal to human. Then different infectious diseases from cow madness, dioxins in feed for animals, pastures of olive oil, etc. that have also affected human health and have also caused major economic damage to national economies. All of this led to a shift in food safety in the EU, so the White Paper on Food Safety in 2000 promoted new concepts on food safety, an old approach abandoned, with an emphasis on the analysis and control of the final product while the new approach implemented in the legislation in 2007 and the proposal for the Food Law is no longer focused solely on the control of the finished product. A new concept of food safety was introduced under the motto from field to table, i.e. from farm to table, which puts emphasis on the responsibility of all in the food chain from primary production, processing, transport to trade and consumers, or food safety, and is controlled and monitored as a continuous food chain. We also have a horizontal approach in the new concept, namely the food safety control system no longer distinguishes between food of animal and non-animal origin. The safety of food is also based on an independent, scientific, public risk assessment and according to the 2007 proposal and the 2007 Act, which is harmonised but here we must say it now and implement this job in the future and will now be done by the Croatian Food Agency and has been working on it, and this Croatian Food Agency was founded in 2003, just in 2007, it was the prerequisite for opening negotiations. And not to mention, when we talk about food, especially considering that health care has become imperative nowadays, we are talking about a comprehensive process whose ultimate result is the food product that we buy in stores or in markets and we use it in food. It's got to go through a few phases that we call what I already said from field to table. Knowing that there is an increasing number of sources of pollution affecting the health and hygiene of food products and poses a risk for the occurrence of the disease is necessary in production, starting from cultivation, processing and distribution of food to animals given for food production, rules have been used to prevent accidental or deliberate food pollution, thereby preventing any negative impact on food safety and health. Today's debate on the proposed laws and the adoption of the proposed laws of the Republic of Croatia fully accepts the European legal framework for the area of food safety and quality of food and feed related to the Food Act and whose harmonisation of the Republic of Croatia has already started with the adoption of the Food Act 2003 and 2007 respectively when it adopted the provisions of Regulation 178/2002. laying down the general principles and conditions of the Food Law, establishing a European Food Safety Authority and laying down the procedure in the areas of food safety and thus the principle of food safety, the requirements of hygiene and quality standards in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and consumer interest, as well as ensuring the efficient functioning of the market. So a basis was created for full adaptation to the European legal framework. All of us are left with the freshest memory problem of February this year with an increased concentration of M1 aflatoxin in milk, which was the reason for the exclusion from the sales network of large quantities of dairy products, thereby causing major damage to producers but also caused the uncertainty of the same consumers. Therefore, EU criteria adopted by the Republic of Croatia allow a concentration of 0.05 micrograms per litre of milk, although some countries such as the United States or Russia are allowed to allow a 10 times higher concentration is well known, and this gives us the safety and fact of the existence of control mechanisms that timely alarm consumers about the safety of food they consume, but also producers of possible causes leading to the same, i.e. a causal link between food that feeds and the end result of increased levels, for example. aflatoxin in milk. This is just one example at the beginning of my debate I remembered in the '90s and cited several other examples. The example is a lot, and the problems they can cause for human and animal health have already been detected. Therefore, it is very important to ensure the responsibility of all factors of the food chain, those in primary production, processing and distribution. It is important here to say that our manufacturer already knows what quality is, but unfortunately he has to choose what he can afford but by harmonising and in reality by implementing these regulations he can be sure there will be no pollution for which he will not know about food. As regards controls, the final proposal of the Law on Official Controls implemented in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and animal welfare is related to the Food Act, and the Republic of Croatia has taken over the provisions of Regulation 882/2004 as early as 2007. and installed them in the Regulation on official controls carried out to verify compliance with the provisions of food and feed regulations and animal health and animal welfare rules. In July 2011, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the State Inspectorate, the Croatian Food Agency developed a multiannual National Plan of Official Controls for the period July 2011 to July 2015, which, on the 200th page, highlighted the improvement of the food and food quality of food and feed, the effective organisation of official controls in the area of animal and animal health and food quality, the effective protection of animal health, animal health and animal health, animal welfare and animal health and veterinary protection and the effective health protection of plants. This proposal for a law in its Article 29(1) proposes as competent for the adoption of a single multiannual national plan of official controls by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate. If the proposal for a Food Act defines the Croatian Food Agency as a national reference point for the assessment of food and food safety risks and includes, inter alia, the scientific assessment of the risks to food and food safety, the production of scientific studies in the field of food safety, the provision of scientific opinions in this area, the establishment and coordination of the national network of institutions. In addition, the Croatian Food Agency is a contact point for cooperation with the European Food Safety Authority in the field of assessment and risk co-operation with other Member States, international institutions and organisations, institutes, institutions, academic community and laboratories, therefore with all those involved in the system of food and feed safety in the Republic of Croatia. So in some ways, I wonder why this agency, or why it has been denied the possibility for the Food Agency to participate in the development of a multiannual national plan of official controls, as proposed by Article 29(1) of the Law, it seems to me that, given the very wide range and aspect of the activities of the Croatian Food Agency, it can contribute to the quality of the development of a multi-annual national plan of official controls, proposals, experiences achieved in the exchange of information to international institutions and organisations. As regards the third law relating to microbiological hygiene and microbiological criteria for food, this proposal by the Republic of Croatia provides final harmonisation with European legislation. Regulations in the field of food hygiene and microbiological criteria for Croatian food have been incorporated into the Food Hygiene Regulation in 2007 and in the Regulation on microbiological criteria for food. The first took over the provisions of Regulation 852/2004 on food hygiene and the second provisions of Regulation 2073/2005 on microbiological criteria for food. A preventive approach through the implementation of measures of good hygiene practice is an excellent measure that provides safety for consumers, and our manufacturers are already familiar with the principles of the food safety management system through the HASAP tool that helps food manufacturers identify, assess and control the risks that can be related to a particular product. This is particularly important because of the fact that the primary responsibility for food safety is borne by the food business operator and I do not think it is necessary to stress that this certification would affect the market orientation of the manufacturer and its competitiveness. The HDZ Club will, of course, support all three of these bill proposals because we are very proud of everything we have done in the past period and I am sure that we will also be proud in the future because the protection of human health and the protection of animal health is of general national interest to everyone in Croatia. I'd like to say that we won, and that's what I'm interested in, and I asked on our board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44322	Shall we extend the hearing for 20 minutes?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44323	Well, you can only do this for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44324	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44325	We got one proposal from the HGK my question was, and now there's the minister, so I'm going to do it again. The HGK suggests that it also enters the board of directors because they say by their reasons that the proposed amendment refers to the system of members of the Management Board of the Food Agency and a clearer statement in the proposal of members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Instead of the 5 members so far, seven members of the Board of Directors are proposed, 2 new members refer to representatives of the institutes, institutions, academic communities, laboratories and other legal persons involved in the food safety system as referred to in Article 26 of the Law. This proposal shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Council of Article 25(1). Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU establishing the composition of the Governing Council of the European Food Safety Authority. In this way, it would be possible for the Governing Council of the Croatian Food Agency to be representatives of the Institutes, institutions, laboratories and representatives of operators in the food business of key stakeholders in the food safety system in the Governing Council of the European Food Safety Agency. Their knowledge, expertise and experience would certainly contribute to the quality work of the Governing Council and would allow a wider perspective in decision-making. The answer on the board was that it was due to rationalization, but here I think there is still little time for the minister to be able to manifest himself about it and take this proposal from the Croatian Veterinary Chamber. As far as these two laws are concerned, the proposal for a law implementing Regulation of the EC Regulation 2003/2003 on fertilisers and cross-border transmission of GMOs will not be much longer, of course I will say that we will support this simply because it is the same harmonisation and implementation of all that has already been incorporated into legislation so far. The HDZ Club will also support this, and given that the minister in his reasoning regarding these two laws has really said what is most important, I don't think it makes any sense to repeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44326	Thank you, too. The Club of Representatives of the SDP of Croatia is next in the Croatian Parliament and half the time foreseen is Đurđica Plančić and Marija Vukbratović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44327	Thank you very much. Honorable President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of our club, I'm going to take a quick look at the first three proposed legislative proposals. The first legal proposal for this debate is the Food Act with the Final Bill. The availability of sufficient high-quality food is a fundamental human need, and better quality food rules are the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human health and consumer interest. The normative content of the EU's 2003, 2004 and 2005 food safety and quality regulations was adopted by the Croatian Food Act 2003-2007. A number of implementing rules have also been adopted to regulate the area of safety and quality of food and food for animals in more detail. However, it is also necessary to amend the applicable Food Act. In order to bring national legislation fully into line with European Union legislation and to provide legal basis for the further adoption and implementation of regulations and regulations and decisions of the European Commission. This Proposal for a Law defines the concepts that will have the same meaning in all Member States after Croatia's accession to the European Union. Basic food safety principles, risk analysis, risk management and risk assessment shall be established. These principles of caution, transparency and protection of consumer interests. The law regulates general obligations in the trade in food and food and general requirements of food rules, as well as safety requirements, presentations, responsibilities of competent authorities and entities in food business, and requirements for the traceability of food and feed. Although, in most cases, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health shall act in a consistent manner, they shall have the exact competences shared between them for the implementation of certain areas of food policy and safety and for the tasks of each of them. For example, in the responsibilities of the Ministry of Agriculture general and specific rules of food hygiene and in the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health Food for... Food needs and fast-freezing food. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bodies for the implementation of official controls are mentioned ministries and, besides them, the State Inspectorate. The actions of inspectors, administrative measures and infringements are clearly defined. What is particularly important, this National Law defines a system of rapid alarming and crisis management and emergency measures for food and food for animals. Co-ordination with the same bodies in the European Union will contribute to the European Commission's faster, more efficient and safer action in crisis situations. And the law prescribes the activities of the Croatian Food Agency which is also a contact point for cooperation with the European Food Safety Agency. They co-operate with international institutions that have similar activities. It is responsible for the establishment and coordination of the national network of institutions involved in the animal food and food safety system. Issuing scientific advice and providing health and technical assistance. The second proposal of the Law is the Proposal for a Law on Food Hygiene and Microbiological Criteria for Food with the Final Proposal of the Law. The objective of this legislative proposal is to ensure a high level of protection of human health through insurance, hygiene and microbiological criteria for food, and to ensure the free movement of food in the European Union. The law provides a preventive approach through the implementation of good hygiene practices based on the principles of the HASAP system. The proposal lays down the competent authorities and tasks of the competent authorities in the food business, which are the same as in the Food Act of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health. The obligations of operators in food business, the exercise of official controls on the implementation, regulation and law, administrative supervision shall be laid down for legal and natural persons and fines for perpetrators of offences. Finally, the third Proposal for a Law is the Law on official controls carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and animal welfare with the Final Proposal for the Law. The proposal for this Act lays the basis for ensuring compliance with the rules on food and food for animals and animal health and welfare rules. The law lays down the competent authorities and their tasks relating to the organisation, coordination and implementation of official controls. The exercise of these controls itself, means of cooperation, communication, reporting, and the system of official and reference laboratories shall be governed. Official controls shall be carried out in the area covered by the rules on food, feed, animal health and animal welfare, and on the health of plants and other areas in which specific regulations are linked, shall also call for official controls under this Act. The proposal for a law defines certain terms by reference to the relevant regulations of the European Union which will apply directly after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Union. In accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 882/2004. This proposal lays down fees and fees relating to official controls on imports of goods for the purposes of covering the costs incurred. These proposed laws replace the applicable Food Act, ensure the implementation of the legal property of the European Union, give them the possibility of flexible and permanent adaptation to national legislation, the legislation of the European Union and will therefore be supported by the SDP Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44328	Thank you, too. And the second part on behalf of the Club respected representative Marija Vukbratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44329	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will continue this debate with the Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 2003/2003 on fertilisers. Therefore, it is another law in the area of agriculture that is in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. On the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the provisions of Regulation No 2003/2003 on fertilisers will be fully applied in Croatia to all fertilisers bearing the name, the EZ fertiliser code. This Regulation lays down in detail the quality of fertilisers to be placed on the market, the obligations of the manufacturer, the way of packaging and keeping records and the derogations to be tolerated. We are witnessing that many European countries have developed agriculture and also chemical industries with uncontrollable use of mineral fertilisers and other agrochemicals have polluted their groundwater and drinking water. However, the ground slightly less, given that the luck of the soil has a good... The ability and largely manages to neutralize all negative actions of people, but underground and drinking water and air yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These countries today have a major problem but also a need for strong control of the quality of fertilisers in use. The Regulation allows each Member State to temporarily prohibit the placing on the market of fertilisers suspected to pose a risk to human, plant and animal health or to pose a threat to the environment, which is extremely good. Mineral fertiliser. Mostly because of raw materials from which products can be the source of toxic metals, primarily cadmium and radionuclides. While the excessive amount of fertiliser use at the wrong time or false formulations may be a major contaminant of drinking water with nitrates and phosphates. Organic fertilisers with all the good properties and all the benefits they bring can be the source of plant, animal and human pathogen microorganisms and heavy metals. Fortunately or unfortunately, some will say, mainly because of the high price of fertilisers in Croatia... the amount of fertiliser per hectare has never been too large. That is why we cannot compare ourselves to what has been achieved with the most developed European countries, but we have kept our soil and our waters clean. By entering the European Union, our market will likely be flooded with the fertilisers of different producers, different quality and I suppose lower prices. It is therefore extremely important that national legislation has a well-defined question of the quality of fertilisers placed on the market, but not only mineral fertilisers and soil enhancers. This area has so far been regulated in the Republic of Croatia by the Law on fertilisers and soil enhancers and by three implementing rules. These documents regulate the quality of fertilisers, quality control, labelling, transport and control of fertilisers, and the production and control of organic fertilisers and soil enhancers. It is good that this legal framework will continue to remain in force for all fertilisers which do not comply with the provisions of the Regulation and which do not bear the EZ fertilising code. It should protect our agriculture from imports of fertilisers of poor quality because it clearly states that fertilisers "must be used in accordance with the principles of good agricultural practice, which implies the fertilisation of certain types and quantities of fertilisers in accordance with the needs of plants and soils, taking into account available nutrients in soil, organic matter of soil, climate conditions and conditions of seed and planting". In terms of the preservation of our soils and water, it is important that we continue to stick to these principles. The proposal for a law implementing the regulation further regulates the placing on the market of ammonium nitrate fertilisers with high nitrogen content, more than 28% and the mandatory demonstration of evidence of the successful study of its resistance to detonation. In fact, ammonium nitrate is also used as an ingredient in the manufacture of explosives, so in the case of its sloppy control, it is possible to endanger the safety of the health of the people who handle them. The Regulation lays down detailed inspection controls and conditions for authorised laboratories to control the quality of fertilisers. For this reason, the SDP will support the Law implementing Regulation No. 2003/2003 on fertilisers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44330	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the list of respondents to the debate on these four topics. Does the Proposer's representative want the closing statement? Dear Minister Tihomir Jakovina, final word on behalf of the proposing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44331	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm taking the opportunity to thank the clubs for supporting these four legal solutions. In fact, I just wanted to further answer the question of my dear colleague, Srumrak, regarding the Law on Official Controls, it seems to me that it was your remark or remark on Article 29(1), which is why the Agency is not included, the Food Agency. It is very simple that official controls must be separate from the risk assessment and therefore the Food Agency cannot be involved in the development of a multiannual national plan because under Regulation 188/2002, the risk management process must be separate from the risk assessment itself. That's why they weren't put in, but these three ministry institutions were put in. And it seems to me that in the Food Act article 28, there was an inquiry concerning the request of the Chamber of Commerce, why, that one of the reasons was savings but so far we had an administrative council that almost counted the same as the employees of the Agency itself, not 7 but 9, I joked, few and more agency employees were but we were also for financial reasons, but also because of the functionality and better way of working. Why don't you meet that request? Because I don't see any reason why representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Agency, craftsmen's, Croatian agricultural chambers, crafts chamber, Veterinary Institute and others shouldn't be so as to make it very clear and plastically known to the representatives of the Institute and the representatives of the entities in the food business should be and will be members of the Advisory Council who will be established in accordance with the statute as stated in the law. So, in any case, they will have the opportunity to install their expertise into relevant documents that they will make, only in accordance with what they should do as.... One more thing about the appointment, the competent agriculture minister makes a proposal for two members. It doesn't say anywhere that it can't be, that it has to be mandatory from the Ministry, it can be someone from a respected scientific community. One of these two proposals is, among other things, a possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44332	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. That's why we're discussing the text of the law of PZE No. 410 and PZE No. 416 and PZE No. 415 and PZE No. 414 over. We'll vote on these laws when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Food Act, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 410. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the honourable Minister of Agriculture, Tihomir Jakovina, to show himself. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44334	Thank you, Mr. President. Nomotechnical changes to the corrections of the terms in the law are accepted including all 5 amendments... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44335	Thank you very much. They become an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much, Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 112 votes for the adopted Food Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Now we move to the debate on - Final proposal of the sea fishing law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 419 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final text of the law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Agriculture, respected Tihomir Jakovina, on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44397	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The new Maritime Fisheries Act allows for the adoption of an EU regulation in the field of common fisheries policy at national level and determines the competence and national mechanisms for their implementation within the framework of the common fisheries policy. The Marine Fisheries Act also lays down the management and protection of renewable biological resources of the sea, the ways and conditions of fishing, the monitoring of catches and farming through data collection, support in fishing and market regulation, surveillance and inspections as well as other issues relevant to marine fisheries. The law lays down the frameworks and bases for the adoption and sublegal regulations necessary for the adoption of plans for the management of marine biological resources, as well as the data collection plan and annual reports on the state of fishing. Furthermore, the new law prescribes supervision and control of the implementation of all provisions in accordance with the EU legal order relating to the criminal provisions under which the infringements are categorized into three groups. Efficient supervision and control shall also be ensured, as well as the connection and coordination of all bodies authorised by the Law to carry out inspections, and a significant paper shall be the regulation of the harmonisation of procedures and reporting to take over obligations from full membership with the EU. The implementation of the EU fisheries regulation shall regulate all segments of the policy from the management of living resources of the sea through inspection and control, support in fisheries and markets. One of the main objectives of adapting the system of management of resources and fleets, as well as control and control systems and the implementation of appropriate legal frameworks to include the Croatian maritime fisheries sector in the EU's common fisheries policy system under which uniform measures are required. This law also adopts EU regulations on structural policy and regulation of the market, as well as state aid, thus providing a legal framework for the identification of competent authorities and their tasks in those segments, and suspending mechanisms for the implementation of structural and state aid within the framework of fisheries policy. In the part of the fishing support so far, it has been possible to establish a system for implementing structural measures and state aid and the organisation of the fisheries market in accordance with the common fisheries policy through existing legislation. During the pre-accession period, support beneficiaries in fisheries as well as the competent administration have gained insight into the basic elements and way of action and control of fishing support to enable them to further implement the common fisheries policy mechanisms in the support segment and market organisation. This law allows for the full adoption of regulations governing the structural and market policies of the Union and State support as well as the determination of competent authorities and their tasks in that segment. Furthermore, this law allows the implementation of the provisions laid down in the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia which allows small-scale fishing for 2000 holders of authorisation until 1 January 2015. The measures to protect biodiversity as a regulation of fishing, and the provisions on the farming of fish and other marine organisms, do not bring a special newspaper in the fisheries of the Republic of Croatia, since they are largely incorporated into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia during the accession period. This law also introduces the capacity of the fishing fleet in the sum of the power of propulsion machinery and tonnegue of the vessel setting the legal framework for the adoption of measures of regulation and sustainable management of the fishing fleet. This mechanism is an integral part of the implementation of the EU's common fisheries policy, and so far it has not been legally regulated in the Republic of Croatia. This law also sets out a legal framework for the provision of institutional support and obliges national authorities as well as the Ministry of Agriculture as competent for fisheries and other bodies and institutions associated with the Fisheries Sector to cooperate with each other. This is also a significant step towards the existing legal framework. The participatory approach to the adoption and adoption of resource management measures is one of the fundamental elements of the common fisheries policy and plays a far-reaching role in positioning this activity. In particular, through a more significant engagement of a number of participants from local, regional self-government and sectoral associations, it enables timely positioning of activities in the coastal area, enabling access and regulation of land logistics and infrastructure, creating conditions for better positioning of the sector on the single market, and enabling equal participation in the decision-making process by directly interested entities. Finally, we note that a single draft of the law, which includes all segments of the common fisheries policy, has been developed for the purpose of taking legal gain from the fisheries sector and thus replaces, i.e. unites the current two rules of the Law on Marine Fisheries and the Structural Assistance and Market Organisation in Fisheries. The links of these two laws are visible through the definitions of general objectives and through the content of strategic documents. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44398	Thank you, Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to submit reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Croatian Democratic Community club and the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44399	I thank Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Assistant Minister. So here is another draft law that we are harmonising with the legal acquis of the EU, and at national level we are establishing the management and protection of renewable biological resources of the sea, the manner and conditions of fishing and breeding, the monitoring of catches and cultivation through the collection of data on support in fisheries, market regulation, surveillance and inspection. I must say that this law, or at least, seems to me to be brought somehow in an atmosphere where I am not at least in the media, but outside the media, felt that some livingness is related to its adoption is more of the kind of activity in fishing and in the part where we have coordinated and negotiated with the European Commission on the status of Croatian fisheries in the EU certainly causes where and where greater tensions, more interest, and through public debate it seems to me that there has been more tension and debate. But this has also resulted in the adoption of certain programmes that have certainly helped Croatian fishing over the past few years. Namely, the fact is that fishing is for islanders but also for coastal inhabitants not only of traditional activity but also of the source of existence, so it is up to us here in the Croatian Parliament if we are talking about Croatian islands it is a great responsibility to strengthen this activity and make it clear that the source of existence easier for all those living alongside fishing. Whether it is their core activity or that it is their activity with another basic activity. Fisheries is not only an important activity because it is linked to it, at least that's how the law explains it, about 14,000 people who are directly or indirectly related to fishing. But the fact is that one of the few activities is at least in this section relating to the production of food produced by the Republic of Croatia is an external trade surplus. It's not big, but $55 million shouldn't be disturbed. And that is why it is certainly important that the moment in which this law is passed is also important, as well as the solutions that this law makes when it comes to fishing, when it comes to the cultivation of mariculture. When we talk about fishing, it is clear that we cannot only observe fishing through this law, that it is a complementary almost interdisciplinary activity that is very, very close to the sea, i.e. shipping, I would say, on the one hand, and also with maritime goods. Namely, when I was in the introduction and talking about this lively debate that took place at the time when we held negotiations on the conclusion of this particular chapter in the framework of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU when we talked about the position of ZERP, when we talked about the position of Croatian fishermen in relation to Italian fishermen who share with us to the greatest extent the fishing sea in the Adriatic, then we certainly wanted to go through the programme of rebuilding and building the fishing fleet to help Croatian fishermen. And it seems to me that it was a very good project, a very good programme in which over 150 million kuna was invested from the state budget alone, transferred from 3 ministries – the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture. And that if it does, and it makes up about 30% of the total funds invested in the reconstruction and construction of the fleet, then in this segment in the past five or six years, about 450 million kuna has been invested. Which I believe has also helped build through that program 22 new fishing ships, and 11 have been restored. However, I have to say I expected even better results but apparently that the crisis on the world market, the crisis in Croatia in any case and the price of the funds that fishermen had to pay to get into this business at all, this process, this project, in any case, has been demoted and this project has not been developed to the end. He seems to me to have stopped with him, and all 53 ships are either in construction or in reconstruction. But I also hold that it helped Croatian fishermen. What is immediately clearly linked to the construction and restoration of the fishing fleet is certainly a question of whether and how we responded with the requirement to build fishing ports across the Adriatic coast. It was the original proposal to set off in each of the coastal counties with the construction of fishing ports in ports of national importance. I don't think we've done much. It was started with the fish port "Torpedo" in the Primorje-Gorski County, it is said of the construction of Komiza, it is said of other ports. It seems to me that it is somehow all slowly together and that without the construction of fishing ports we cannot talk about the take-off of fishing or fishing activities in the Republic of Croatia. To return to the law in particular, when we speak and when I mention ports, it is clear that landing places are defined in that sense, and this is exactly the Article 43 of the Law, where it is said that the landing of fish and other marine organisms from the economic and small coastal fisheries at sea can only be carried out at landing sites designated by the minister, with the consent of the maritime minister. I am not sure that this article of the law has not forgotten another minister or, at least, if I do not know whether this is the wording of Article 43, the local mayors, or the mayors, are satisfied. It seems to me that the minister is in charge of maritime matters, but no less important is the Minister of Spatial Planning, because the landing site is not only a place located within the port open for public transport but often it is a landing place in the area of maritime goods which is open to public transport outside the port where it is very important to ask either the Minister responsible for spatial planning or mayor, or the head of the local self-government unit in which this fish landing is carried out, or in whose area the landing place is defined. Therefore, it seems to me that this part should agree because I am afraid that, knowing from my own experience, what happened when we were working on a landing order that the mayors, the mayors, or the mayors of cities and municipalities who were priorityd, would be focused on tourism, which meant a landing place to them. I therefore believe that this article should also include the opinion or resolute minister of spatial planning and possibly local leaders of local self - government units. In his introduction, the minister said that this Marine Fisheries Act puts two laws out of force, putting two sublaws out of force. But it seems perfectly logical that it puts the law out of force so far, the Marine Fisheries Act, however, puts it out of force and the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market. As far as I have been able to see from reading this law, this compensation or compensation of putting aside the power of the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market in this law seems to me to be two, three articles in which the issue of structural support and regulation of the fisheries market has not been sufficiently resolved, the position of the paying agency, which is with local fishing support, etc. I don't know if the original law that has about 50 articles can be compensated enough, I said with several articles of this law, and it seems to me that the law is primarily addressed to marine fisheries and that, to a lesser extent, this Marine Fisheries Act is aimed at addressing the issue of structural support without which it cannot be met to enable the financing of the fisheries policy objectives in Croatia. I think that in that part of the law should have more participated those articles and those obligations of the provisions governing the fisheries market in the Republic of Croatia. I will, on behalf of the club, and I and my colleague from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Mr Frano Matušić will submit an amendment to Article 51(3), in accordance with the proposal of the Chamber of Obrnička. In fact, it seems to me that Article 51(3), as the Government proposed in its decision, is not until the end of this proposal to protect the production of seashells. For example, if we intend to protect and protect the production of seashells in Article 51(3), we do not understand why this protection of the production of seashells or of the grower's authority only allows the grower to benefit if he has the privilege of economic fishing, and why we do not allow this if we do not provide for the purpose of protecting the production of seashells, we also do not allow other seashell growers to benefit if they own both the authorisation or the privilege of small coastal fishing at sea or if they are authorised to fish recreationally or if they have a licence for sport fishing. So, if our goal is to protect this area where the concession area of maritime goods is concentrated, where the farmer of the breeding concession gets the privilege of growing, although along the road he has the privilege of economic fishing, he can protect this field because he can't protect other licence holders either for small coastal fishing, whether he owns a license for recreational fishing or sports fishing. Clearly, he would protect his field by those fishing gears that are in it according to the credentials or according to the privileges afforded by this law to own them and if he owns them, I don't understand that he can hunt somewhere outside without being able to hunt around his field where he grows clams and where this fishing protects that field in which he grows clams. It seems to me that it's not even and I have to say I don't see any logical explanation why we wouldn't allow other authorities to protect their fields where they grow clams. And another thing I was saying to the Minister of Environmental Protection, which refers to protected areas of nature or specifically to reserves such as the Bay of Maloston. In fact, it seems to me that this law is now as it was proposed not to comply with the Nature Protection Act or the Nature Protection Act adopted before Friday, so a few days ago is not in line with this Marine Fisheries Act or Article 4. The Maritime Fisheries Act does not comply with Articles 113, 114, 115. The Nature Protection Act. In this Act on Marine Fisheries, Article 4 implies that in the category of a special reserve such as Maloston Bay is allowed to fish and grow fish and other marine organisms, clearly with the prior consent of the Minister, by means of a sublegal act, which, with the prior consent of the Minister responsible for fisheries affairs, brings to the attention of the Minister of Environment and Nature. According to the interpretation of your article, Article 4 of this Law would also be concluded that fishing is made possible in a special reserve such as the Bay of Maloston. At the same time, the Nature Protection Act only allows the activity of maricculture farming until fishing is allowed or may be allowed if it is authorised by the Minister of Environment and Nature. So until then, I have given the amendment last Friday to the Minister of Environment and Nature that this law that we have brought to the bench here in the Assembly that the two laws that we make in just a few days would not be incompatible in this way when we pass this law on Friday in this text, as you have proposed it, will be found with it that it is possible to carry out fishing in a special reserve, clearly with certain restrictions, while in that Nature Protection Act, this fishing law is not prescribed, it may be... if it is allowed by the Minister of Environment and Nature, with the consent of the Minister of Fisheries. All in all, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law but I propose an amendment that would be very good to adopt because we consider it logical, and that this solution that is now in the law is not logical from the aspect of the protection of shell farming in the Maloston Bay, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44400	Thank you very much. It is the turn of the HNS Club-and-respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44401	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, you are the most persistent and most principile, honourable Mr. Minister with an assistant. We have before us a draft Maritime Fisheries Act which is actually a direct consequence of what happens in a few days, which is Croatia's entry into the European Union. Before I move on to an assessment of the content and actually an assessment of the nature of this legal document, I will say something that has been said today on the Committee itself and the Assembly, if there is even the worst part of the legal property of the European Union, if there is the worst policy of the European Union, then it must be the common fisheries policy of the European Union common fisheries policy that has brought European hunting sites into a catastrophic state in the last 25 years and many known once world hunting sites into the Dead Sea. This is one of the most comprehensive segments of the European acquis for a very simple reason that each fishing is a specific for itself. And it is quite clear that by trying to follow the requirements of time and work on the ground, and the European bureaucracy itself had adopted regulations concerning the North Sea. The ones that referred to the Mediterranean, the ones that referred to the Atlantic, the Black Sea. And in that sea of legal documents, there was a confusion that led to us having to do the same, regardless of what continued harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis in the fisheries chapter. And here I am now before entering the European Union to pass one proposal of the Law by emergency procedure. What to say about the nature of this Act is its fundamental intensity to enable the direct application of the legal provisions of the European Union required by the European Commission to apply to fisheries. This Law is in the opinion of us from the Croatian People's Party who will, of course, support it and, in my personal opinion, as a man of the profession very correctly complex document. In most cases, it refers to the commitments we have made in Chapter 13 and concerns the European Regulation No 1967/2006 of the famous Mediterranean Regulation which gives our fishermen the most headaches. In fact, even this regulation, which has been written specifically to meet the needs of that European Mediterranean fisheries part, does not know certain categories and techniques of fishing that are traditional for us. And what our fishermen and we will have to face is a partial change of approach to fishing in the coming years. And that's something you're not discussing. We just know the rules of the game. It is up to us to ensure the conservation of biological resources as a fundamental task, the sustainability of fishing, and to ensure that Croatian professional fishermen can continue to exist even in the event of adaptation and correction of their approach and fishing techniques. The fact is, even with our internal legislation for the last few decades, we haven't responded to the task of preserving biological wealth in one part. How much cattle do we have relatively stable blue fish with full responsibility and I will not accept anyone's judgment regardless of the references of the gentlemen of scientists that I deeply appreciate and of whom some of them were teachers to take in... Nothing happened to the settlements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In... There was a devastation because the fishing policy was ruled by the plutocracy or the rule of large bosses, because the measures that most professional fishermen pointed to were not implemented, because our request had not been respected since 1999 to limit the number of licences for professional fishing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've explained it to a girl like that very simply, and it's that my shoe number, leg number 45, can't get into the women's room number 39. Thus, even the overcrowded fleet, too much fishing capacity cannot fish in the Adriatic, which is an oligotrophic sea, an extremely sensitive eco system. And today we have what we have and this is a very demanding task in front of the Resort Ministry, the Fisheries Administration, but also in front of us ladies and gentlemen who must create a political basis for such activities. This happened among other things because Croatia's policy in general, while not thinking of any party but of all, had no character to declare a protected ecological fishing belt or economic belt. What happened in this context is national shame, the shame of Croatian politics, something that is cut in the finality and with the Constitution and fundamental principles, even the fundamental principles of the legal acquis of the European Union. We allowed this story to be discriminated against, we allowed it to be irresponsible, we allowed it to ignore our own fundamental postulates of the functioning of the rule of law and democratic society. We've alienated part of sovereignty, and today we have a situation that we have. What happiness is is that Europeans become aware of their own failures in the common fisheries policy and that a whole new set of legal rules is being prepared to determine the fisheries policy from 2014 to 2020. So this legislative proposal is actually another harmonisation and an attempt to catch up with the race in the production of EU rules on fisheries. What Bacic was saying, he was talking about some programs he was trying to do, and I'm going to be very direct to compensate the fishermen for what was done with ZERP among other things. Yes, it is true, a lot of money has been spent to restore Croatia's fishing fleet, I am responsible for saying that with these money we could have made twice as many ships. However, we did not listen to the profession, but again to the particular ambitions of certain entrepreneurs, we did not work for a fleet that was standardised, adapted to the technical and technological needs of Adriatic fishing, rather than doing butik fleets and instead of ordering a number of high-quality confectional ships that would meet the requirements of Croatian fishing, we did ships as desired, and that is ladies and gentlemen much more expensive, as when you do suit at will, and you do not buy a confection. This is just one example in Croatian politics that sometimes, under the auspices of good ideas and good information, the initiative spent budgets in an irresponsible way for each commendation. Details to be shown to the disputed, given that fishing is such an activity, will be resolved and can be resolved through sublegal acts. With regard to the problems of fishing ports and landing sites, what is most transportable and simplest, which is that, according to a specific schedule, former military stops are used, there are and are still not all in operation and that fishing berths are built because talking about the fishing port from the aspect of the profession in Croatian fishing is a little too ambitious. Namely, it is very well known what it means in the fishing port profession, which must satisfy the conditions and how much annual congestion it must provide for it to have a category of fishing ports, even if it is the lowest. Our fishing is far from it. And what is important to us, regardless of the content of this law, regardless of what many fellow fishermen will feel, is that this law, as well as future management plans, which we have made on the basis of our commitments in the negotiations in Chapter 13, changes the life-saving approach of some of them. What is an advantage and in which we must insist on the resolution ministry, the executive authority, is that it intensively uses the position for a few days of a member of the European Union and that our negotiators, or our representatives, because they are no longer negotiators in the classical sense of the word, a very intense prism to the business of positioning Croatian fisheries in the place that belongs to it in the European fishermen' community. The issue of amendments and problems recorded in the content of Article 51, as regards the protection of shell farming in Maloston Bay, I would dare say it is not just Maloston Bay, it is the Lim Channel, it is also the estuary of the Krka River. All known sites where clams are grown are indeed places of very intense seasonal predation of sparids that cause great damage to breeders. However, by reading this HDZ amendment, I have to express skepticism, i.e. certain doubts, when it comes to the content of the amendment. I'll try to explain it for the end. It is the following, in Article 51(3), that the legislator has enabled the use of standing nets to those authorised by standing nets and has the privilege of carrying out economic fishing. To seek a solution as a final solution by using tools from recreational and sports fishing is, do not get angry with your fellow Bačić, as a representative of your club you have suggested this, I am a little skeptical you know when the mass of the plow comes, starts to predicate the mussels on the pergulars that hunting will prune or hunt peaks solve the problem of the protection of the farm. Networks of stand-ups are the only tool that can work, and does not read me the content of this article in order to be disabled with the consent of breeding authorisation holders that the other authorised, professional fisherman who owns the worknets is hunting in the area. If the good reading of Article 51(3) does not appear anywhere, it says that fishing that would interfere with the breeding process is prohibited. However, if the owner of the farm is the one who wants to protect his production and has this extraordinary predication situation of spards on the pergularies, no one forbids him to invite a fellow fisherman who has been hunting for the workings of the core business, such as this core business bred mussels, and that a professional who pays taxes, who is registered and paid to hunt for ordnance thus ensure his existence. It's much fairer and much more efficient. This way, if we were to use your solution, we would actually create exclusive aquariums, and it would happen that they work as a targeted hunting species for those who are not core businesses, which would make extra incomes, and that those who should... are registered, pay taxes, pay a maritime contribution, invest the tools to fish for ordnance, can't do the same work. Normally, it's gonna be more ordinarily than it's good for there. So in this article and this item, opportunities remain, and that someone is going to be chasing the surface with two hooks and lead, so much of the plowing to protect the mussel, that's a little too ambitious. In any case, we and the legislator of this law are waiting for them to work on the creation and modernisation of the future Marine Fisheries Act, which, given the speed that certain things are being done in European bureaucracy and the European Commission, we may already, and certainly in this conference, and perhaps in a year's time, have a new modified law adapted to new proposals and documents of the European Union, so far the HNS Club and my littleness consider this a very correct legislative proposal, and we will certainly support it in HNS. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44402	Thank you, too. Your Honor, we have a replica of your exposure. Honorable representative Branko Bačić and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44403	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Baranovic, so if we talk about the same thing, we're talking about the part where the shell is grown. It is a priority Maloston Bay, speak Lim Channel, speak the mouth of Krka. But I'm now talking about what's down on, in my county where I'm and from the president of the shell-cheese breeder's got that amendment. So, what's this all about? This is about the fact that we are allowing this bill to authorise a breeding privilege, that, if it is and has the advantage of economic fishing, it can guard its concession field, and its concession field, which has an authorisation for small coastal fishing or small fishing, can't be done and the same one has a network with which they can, the single network of barns is enabled and one and the other only that this one has a limited catch according to this law on a certain number of kilograms of catches a day, and the other one doesn't. They have the same network, they allow each other the same network, one and the other have a concentrated field, one and the other grow shells. The one who lives downstairs in Stone is whether and who is not engaged in the professional activities of fishing but is an authorisation for small coastal fishing cannot guard his field of fish predators from mosquitoes as you said just before, and the other one can. In my view, it's not the same approach and I think that if we allowed it to have the advantage of small coastal fishing, then more and more, and by the way, it's a concessionary for the farming of seashells that it can do the same, it protects the same area by concessionary means. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44404	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44405	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, I fully understand you and just as I understand the concern of breeders aware as a man who knows their lives, their work and problems to truly suffer the damage. A colleague, Antun Pavlovic, is the same job letter on our club and on my behalf as a representative. I want to point you to the next problem. Let's conclude that this can only be solved by using single nets of stables. That's where we can agree. These nets are used by a) economic fishing authorities which are perfectly normal and which can unlimitedly fish the quantities of sparids, which is an effective fight for the protection of breeding sites and can be used by the authorisation holders, but to a much smaller extent for small coastal fisheries because they are limited to 5 kg. What are we going to do when they catch five kilos, when the rest of them go down and... Go for the mussels? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the solution is in examples of economic fishing. If the authorisation holder of the breeding privilege is not also authorised to perform economic fishing, it has a registered network of such a solution is in the very content that is not explicitly defended by the grower's authority to invite a fellow professional fisherman to dissipate his intruders. Read a good article, it doesn't say it's forbidden. It just says... Read a little better, and we can sit down later, and we'll take a look. [[You can't hear it.]] [[Incursion President: Please do not throw away for the record.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44406	Thank you, too. We've exhausted a list of registered clubs to discuss this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative Mladen Marelić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44407	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Assistant Minister. I think we've still got one law that's been waiting for a long time and that the law is quite adaptable and quite good for sea fishing, especially for us islands and coasts. Because this law lays down at national level the management of the protection of the renewable biological wealth of the sea, the ways and conditions of fishing, breeding, catch and breeding through data collection, support in fishing and market regulation, surveillance and inspection, as well as other issues relevant to marine fisheries. We have defined three items by this law. So we've separated professional fishing, small and coastal fishing and sports recreational fishing. The proposal for a law on marine fisheries is one of the laws that is most difficult to negotiate both in length and in the weight of negotiations. We have one problem with this law that yet Croatia is a country with thousands of islands and many different fish funds, so we can hardly have targeted fish catches. That's what we discussed this morning and on the board, that the target catch of fish cannot have as well as other countries that have much less islands and much less fish funds, the quality of fish as well as species of fish. In my debate, I'd be a little more moved by the island's problems. The adaptation of European law will make it difficult for us islanders because tradition is important. For hundreds of years, it was also active from fishermen, people, residents below respected little fishing, so that people with it ate in quite significant times, I think, and difficult times. But the bigger problem is that during the negotiation, when there are 8,000 benefits that little fishermen have had, we have to take down 6000. So we're staying at 2,000, so that's going to be a really difficult problem. And I'd really ask, but I don't think it's even possible that the law is in front of us right now, but in the next period, to see the possibility that islands will reduce the criteria for obtaining small fishing privileges and I think they'll reduce their age. So it's age and income censorship. To protect the fish fund, introduce as many poachers as possible in the areas of fishing zones with a replacement in a circle that was from two to three years to be hunting, so that they can have as much quality protection as possible and means more protection of fish so that they can grow to be and catch as good as possible tomorrow. As for the law of usability, that is, protection fishing in Maloston Bay, I mean Article 51(3) really gives us that possibility, and it's good that the owners of concessions that get that they can fish there because if we all fish there would be unpleasant situations because the man who pays the concession in a particular area can fish there, can have the protection of his seashells, and we know that small fishing, tomorrow... fishing that we'll be able to, and we all know that now they're working there about 2-3 kg each. So we can catch two ordnances and that would be ineffective and the law would be as effective as proposed professional fishing, so those who have privileges can professionally fish in that area. So there can be the destruction of those predators that really destroy the mass of those shells. But the Nature Parks Act that we had, and in that nature park, we had an unsettled situation so that we had a situation, now there's already some time behind not even a permit that would now be arranged with this law because we had a situation that certain cities or islands had... protection 45 perks, 40 would get their own, so the local population, 5 were getting out of that area, e.g. Last name, Korčula. 5 He received Korchula, as they were given them no one knew these criteria because there were many demands, and they did not meet those closest to them that were across from them. They were put aside. I think this law that goes that will come well to all because if protection of nature park is an island that is an island of nature, it is not 10 km away islands are protection in nature. I don't think it's going to be a protection of marine fishing, so we're going to be able to fish in that sea area that's not protected, it's not even an integral part of that island, I think the physical sea is different from land. And I think this is a law that will help develop and develop fisheries in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44408	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a report of a respected representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44409	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Marelić, it seems to me that the two of us agreed that it would be good for shell growers in Maloston Bay to keep those fields where they grow clams, but that's not what this law says. This law only allows a small one, I don't know exactly, maybe Mr. Kuchish would know exactly how many, I think there are some 250 concentrated fields in the Bay of Maloston. Of them 250 concessionaries, maybe all of them a few, and I don't know if two or three, I don't know exactly, have at the same time the privilege of economic fishing and only they can guard their fields. The rest of the 217, 220, as many as there are, is based on this law to guard their fields and is wrong to fellow Baranovic when he says he can rent that other fisherman to keep him with his nets stand. He can't. This law says that if it has the privilege to grow shellfish and if it has the advantage of economic fishing it can guard its field, otherwise it can't. That's the difference. Here I ask you to support me, so that everyone who has any fishing permit can keep their cages. There's nothing else. It is otherwise under this law will only one or two fishermen be able to guard their fields and it is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44410	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44411	My colleague Bačić, I think this law allows it, not just one of the things that my colleague Baranovic said, that in the concession that was rented by a shell farmer to bring a professional fisherman, we will hear an interpretation, that he can bring a professional fisherman to protect his area because whoever thinks about changing what you are interpreting in order to violate the entire Small Fisheries and Coastal Fisheries Act. I think small coastal fishing would be a violation of the entire law so it would disrupt everything. I think this is the law, and yet the motionor will give that interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44412	Can you tell us if you're going to hunt or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44413	Well, I'm far from it, I'm far from it, otherwise I don't have a hunting license and I can't hunt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44414	Okay, that's the most important thing, you didn't tell us. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for questioning. Does the Proposer's representative want to? He doesn't want to. That's when the final text of the law was debated. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 419. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and MPs Branko Bačić and Frano Matušić. I'd like a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44418	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in Article 51(3), has already provided for the purpose of protecting the production of shellfish from predators by performing economic fishing with single nets of barns as a fishing gear whose technical characteristics best enable this. This proposed amendment proposes the use of fishing gears whose technical characteristics do not allow the protection of the production of shellfish from predators as well as the proposed forms of fishing that are limited in the types and quantities of fishing gears and prevent the protection of this production.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44419	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44420	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the purpose of this article, which is part of the Law, was to protect shell farmers from fish predators, predators that cause damage to these crops. According to your Law, if we project it in Maloston Bay where there are over 200 concession fields and over 100 concessionaires dealing with the farming of shellfish, only 6 of them will be able to defend, protect their shells. While the remaining 97 and 8 breeders will not be able to do so under this law of yours. My amendment, and only those who are professional fishermen who are breeders and professional fishermen, that is, are engaged in economic fishing. All others and these are those who have the privilege of small fishing, who have the approval for sports and recreational fishing, and that is almost everyone, them... Seven and eight, they won't be able to protect their shells from the ordnance and other predator fish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this amendment went in order to enable them to use their tools when it comes to fishermen who have... for small fishing, they have the same nets as professional fishermen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, at least you could allow them to do so. And you're wrong when you say that the most effective way to defend against these fish is a single net of barnacles. It's just that the suitor tools like the paraangal and... The most effective and effective way to defend against these fish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we have brought such an amendment along with a number of fishermen, that is, the shell growers' association, to enable all shell growers in the Bay of Maloston to defend against predator fish. This way and this article if it remains as you suggested it will cause enormous damage to those who live out of it. That's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44421	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment of respected representatives Branko Bačić and Frana Matusic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 79 votes in favour, 39 votes against and 1 abstention, have been passed by the Marine Fisheries Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. We are now going to do another law by 15% of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which is - The final draft law on the implementation of Regulation No. 1946/2003 on the cross-border transfer of genetically modified organisms, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 417 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final text of the law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You've received reports from these working bodies in the boxes. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection, respected Croatian Dokoza. Here you go, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44423	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs. This proposal for a law implementing the Regulation on the cross-border transfer of genetically modified organisms will create a framework for the implementation of the 2003 EU Parliament and Council Regulation on cross-border transmission of GMOs. This Regulation of 2003 transposes the provisions of the Protocol on Biosafety of the so-called ‘European legislation’ into European legislation. Cartagena Protocol to the Convention on Biological Variety. In terms of deliberate cross-border transfer, this Regulation addresses the exclusive issue of linkage with GMO exports from EU Member States to third countries. The Regulation also lays down the obligations of the exporters, depending on the purpose of which GMOs are exported and the mandatory content of the dossier accompanying the exports of GMOs to third countries. GMOs are exported for scientific and experimental purposes for the purpose of cultivation or deliberate introduction into the environment or for use as food, feed and for further processing. In addition to that Regulation, Member States' obligations to exchange information shall be laid down. Member States shall be obliged to designate the competent authority for the implementation of the Protocol and to lay down appropriate infringement provisions in the event of breach of the provisions of the Regulation. The Republic of Croatia has been a party to the 2003 Protocol on Biosafety, and in accordance with the Protocol Confirmation Act, the competent authority for its implementation is the Ministry of Environment and Nature. Currently, the issue of cross-border transmission of GMOs includes imports, exports and exports covered by the GMO Act and the 2010 GMO's cross-border contribution Regulation. In accordance with the latest draft of that law, the national regulation ceases to apply on the day of the entry into full EU membership of the Republic of Croatia. This law lays down the competent authority, which is the Ministry of Environment and Nature, as the tasks of the competent authority. Other bodies with which the ministry is involved in the implementation of the regulation are also designated, namely the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Customs Administration and their roles. The law lays down appropriate infringement provisions in two ranges of fines from 100 thousand kuna to 200 thousand kuna and 20 thousand to 120 thousand kuna for actions contrary to the provisions of the GMO cross-border transfer Regulation. To implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget, and the tasks it provides will be carried out in the context of our regular affairs. Since it is an EU law, it is required to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44424	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're having a debate on the representatives' clubs. It is the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Đurdjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44425	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, sir, I'm sorry I don't know, Deputy Minister of the State Department, Honorable colleagues and a colleague of mine. Here's since I already said in that previous debate that I would support this law we will indeed support it at the HDZ Club and, of course, other than this whole harmonisation that you've been talking about, it's very important that both these violation provisions and not so low fines. We will continue to insist in HDZ, and I am sure most of the representatives in this Croatian Assembly but also most of the farmers and consumers in Croatia that Croatia remains one of the oasis of the countries free of GMO products in this case is about seed. So here I was before in the speed of this debate going through a little bit of a search and I came across a very good presentation from 2013 that says whether GMOs have any products in the Croatian market, so there is no. No, because no one has submitted any requests to place GMOs on the market until 6 months 2013. And in what way did we come up with such knowledge? We came up with exactly what you were talking about. It's border inspection, state monitoring, seed control, animal food control. In Croatia, there are still no GMO plantations, analysis of samples of border veterinary inspection, inspections of the Ministry of Health which, by this joint work or by their joint work distributed into 5 ministries annually collect about 800 samples of various products, and 99% of cases show that they do not contain GMOs. Due to the lack of GMOs, GMO pollen does not spread, so for example, the honey we buy from domestic beekeepers does not contain GMOs, such as in Germany or in some other countries where we can find very often in honey pollen containing GMOs. Since '98, legal restrictions have started in Croatia and the introduction of monitoring, implementation and subsequent banning trials with GMO plants. GMOs may still be registered in the territory of Croatia but no requirements for the registration of these crops have yet to come, and as regards products of which the accidental or technological inevitable traces of authorised GMOs cannot be excluded. The Regulation established a level of 0.9% above which these products do not have to be marked as GMO products, and if they contain more than that must have a GMO marking. These 0.9% are in scientific groups one big debate from where that 0.9 is relevant or not. What we must be satisfied is that within the last few years 21 counties in Croatia have declared themselves free of GMOs and that in Croatia as many as 80% of citizens have declared themselves against GMOs. I am sure that different educations and all the legal regulations that we have so far passed and brought into line with the Food Act and everything else will be able to maintain this status of one of the few countries that we are free from GMOs and that our peasants will not plant crops no matter what one incident happened a few years ago. And quite accidentally, or I wouldn't say they planted, planted the seed of corn and then there was a big one, a debate in Croatia, and it was one big incident and then the county began to declare themselves free from GMOs. And here it is, I'm gonna finish this and we're gonna support this law, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-26-0.u44426	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Is it the proposing's representative? No, I don't. Thank you very much. This will end the discussion of the text of the law. We'll vote on him when the conditions are met. We will now stop today's meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we will continue. ... Too much? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you, you've been persistent, you've been constructive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. I ask MPs and MPs to take a look at their boxes. You have received a new Bill proposal which we will include tomorrow in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, probably tomorrow and the day after tomorrow even discuss them. We start tomorrow at 9.30. And on the agenda we begin with item 11 of the agenda Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, also P.Z.E. Have a good rest. Thank you. The session was interrupted at 21.28 p.m. Final proposal for a law implementing Regulation No. 1946/2003 on the cross-border transfer of genetically modified organisms, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 417. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 121 votes for, the Law implementing Regulation No. 1946/2003 on the cross-border transfer of genetically modified organisms in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
