ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37707	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We continue to work with: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Sports, P.Z. No. 316 The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Željko Jovanovic and Deputy Minister Petar Skansi are with us. Introduce yourself, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37708	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs and MPs. Good morning. Here I am really looking forward to having Mr. Skansi and I here today in this House to present a proposal that we consider really important, and I would dare say in the opinion of athletes and historical for Croatian sport. With these amendments and additions to the Sport Act, we are completing a mini reform of the Croatian sport system that started with the first amendments and additions to the laws from which I would like to single out the most important fact. With these amendments and additions, we have concluded and voted in favour of this High House that sports in Croatia is an activity of special national interest. Why is sports of particular national interest? Because sport deals with a very large number of young people, a large number of children, almost 16 thousand sports associations exist in Croatia. For this very reason, if sport is an activity of particular national interest, then we had to prove it in practice. For that very reason, in the period up to these changes, we've made two major studies. The first study was the role of coaching in sports where we wanted to point out how important it was to work with our children a quality coaching staff. And another study which is the foundation of the future of sports in Croatia, here I brought it on purpose to see how thick it is, although fat sometimes does not mean quality. It is a study called Funding Sports in the Republic of Croatia with a comparative display of funding in the EU. Why am I saying this? So let me just tell you that we are in the ministry taking care of Croatia's entry into the EU and the need to bring all issues of sport into line with EU rules. So some inscriptions that have been in the media lately about alarming threats to Croatian sports do not actually stand. In this study everything is written and exactly in accordance with it we are preparing some strategic decisions related to the financing of sports. Furthermore, according to which we have shown that sport is indeed an activity of particular national interest, because we have pointed out that our goal is to expand the base first, to include as many young as possible from preschool institutions, through primary and secondary schools and colleges, and therefore, if you remember in the budget adopted by this Assembly, increased funding for school sports and increased funding for academic sport. So we've created some kind of assumption that the base will be as large as possible. This base that's bigger than normal is that the top of the pyramid where the best, the best-quality athletes are also going to be bigger. And we've come up with these changes and additions that we're proposing today, which are just about the top of the pyramid of top athletes because these top athletes can say they have two key roles. One is that they are the largest, most famous Croatian ambassadors and that in every part of the world if someone recognizes Croatia by some features then it is certainly our top sport and our top athletes. At the same time, the second dimension of top athletes is that they are a role model for young people who are just starting to play sports because of their successes. For this reason, we believe that our top athletes deserve a special confession. The special recognition that Croatia expresses gratitude for everything they have done in the promotion of Croatia in the world, as well as for encouraging young people to play sports. Since the beginning of this proposal I have pointed out and today I want to stress it again, it is not about pensions, it is not about sports pensions, it is about the cost of the pension system, it is about benefits for excellence that are all the opposite of pensions because these fees aim to encourage our top athletes to remain in sport after the end of their sports career and to participate in the programmes of the Croatian School Sports Alliance, Croatian Academy Sports Alliance, the Ministry of Tourism, to participate in promotion of sports activities by schools, to participate as mentors for our young athletes and to participate together with the Ministry of Tourism through a project that we will soon present, and it is called "Follow Me to Croatia" to continue to be ambassadors of Croatia around the world. There's a good description of top athletes, top athletes that often points out my assistant Peter Scans are like a match that turns on, lights up and then goes off. That's why this period of sports career is very short and to keep it as long as possible, so that our top athletes can be as active as we can offer these fees as possible. What should be said when we proposed a proposal ahead of you, we made sure that it was also economically sustainable, that it did not jump out of the economic conditions of the Republic of Croatia, and that you would see that the proposal before you concerns Olympic medal winners, Paralympic medals and medals at the Olympics of the deaf, and world championships in Olympic sports and sports disciplines for athletes from the age of 45 who are Croatian citizens, have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, are not legally condemned. In this proposal, it stands for a criminal offence that has been prescribed for a period of more than 5 years, but in discussions on committees, it is proposed to bring the border down to two years, which is what we at the Ministry of Science and Education agree on. And what's important, the fee will be paid at every athlete's request. But when I say that the proposal is economically sustainable, the amount of the most permanent compensation for the gold Olympic medal will be the average net salary per employee in the legal persons of the Republic of Croatia in the year that preceded the right to receive that fee. So by the calculation as we suggested at this point it's somewhere on average 5 thousand and 400 kuna. The minimum remuneration of 40% of the net salary would be for winning bronze medals at world senior championships, so 40%, which is about 3200 kuna somewhere. How many athletes at this point are entitled to this fee. So it's 86 Olympic medal winners, 70 medal winners at world championships in Olympic sports, 8 medals at the Paralympic Games and 38 medals at the deaf Olympic Games. There is an explanation why we included world championships in Olympic sports with the Olympic Games, Paralympic Games and the Olympic Games in the proposal. So if we look at the criteria, the coefficients of these world championships, then world championships in Olympic sports are at least at the same level of excellence and quality as Olympic games. At the same time, it is not the case with sports, world championships in the Paralympic Games and the deaf Olympic Games where the Olympics of deaf athletes and the Paralympic Games are truly the highlight of the excellence of paralympic athletes and athletes, deaf athletes. That's why our proposal is the way you got it. The total amount for these permanent fees is moving somewhere around 15 million kuna and the funds are secured in our budget. In this way, I think we are rounding up these first sports reforms in Croatia. In this way, I think we are making assumptions that our young people have both role models and trainers that will allow them to be even better athletes and that Croatia, when it comes to sports, is achieving further successes that are incomparable to the size of the Republic of Croatia. I thank you for all the suggestions that will go in the direction of improving this text. And I am convinced that these legal changes really create the assumption that not only top sports but sports in Croatia as a whole will be even better and all this will mean that Croatia will also be a healthier, better quality country in which to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37709	Thank you, Minister. We have a replica of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37710	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have listened carefully to you, you have said that by proposing a law you put first the Olympic sports, have you consciously sent a message to Croatian athletes, people who are engaged in sports, who are almost 77-ac, of which, 33 I think are Olympic, 34 are not Olympic sports. Did you send them a message this way that the state doesn't really want to worry about top athletes, sports that aren't Olympic. And those sports that aren't Olympic. The selection of Olympic sports cannot be affected. I will mention the world's first medal that came to the Republic of Croatia, and it was in bottles and that man according to this, let's say, according to this bill, has no right to support the state, let's call it either the world bowling champion who also brought one world medal to the Republic of Croatia amongst the first ones, they are not covered by such a form of law. Do we also tell young people that these sports are not so valuable, that they do not need to be forced, i.e. that at some point they simply won't have any support or some country's subport since they're less valuable than the ones they've singled out and that you want to say in some way reward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37711	We have an answer, Minister Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37712	So whenever decisions are made, there must be criteria. In this case, the criteria that are in line with countries that have similar fees are the criteria of Olympic sport, exactly what the Olympic sport is, in which way it enters the family of Olympic sports, and therefore we believe that this proposal represents the best model of estimating top sports. Sports where top athletes have proven to represent the best ambassadors of the Republic of Croatia worldwide, all those who are not Olympic sports, in no way underrated, they continue to participate in a whole series of different sport co-financing models. In total, nearly two and a half billion kunas stand out in Croatia for sport. But at this point, not Olympic sports do not meet the criteria that are related to this model of the award for excellence in Croatian sport. All these sports that are not Olympic sports, if their coefficients are seen, if their representation is seen in the world are not in the service of the Olympic family. Which, of course, does not mean in any way that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports through other forms of awards that exist for those Olympic sports will not encourage young people to engage in these sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37713	Thank you. The word was requested by MP Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37714	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of Article 225. I am looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Independent Democratic Party Club. The basic assumption for the work of each club and then the Club of the Independent Democratic Party of Serbia is the impartiality of the professional public, especially the public media we decide on here in the Croatian Parliament and whose programme we are considering. If there are indications that fundamental constitutional rights such as the right to freedom of speech such as the right to national equality are violated, such as the right to professional reporting. Then we in the Croatian Parliament have the right and obligation to talk about it. So I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37715	Thank you. I'm approving a 10-minute break. [[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING IN 9,52 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37717	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. As I have said in my explanation of the request for a 10-minute break on behalf of the SDSS Club, there have been serious indications for a long time that representatives of the Croatian Parliament, that people acting in the political sphere do not have the necessary and sufficient assumptions that they can do their job in the manner that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure require. Public media and public service whose duty is to report professionally, impartially, without restricting freedom of opinion, without restricting freedom of expression, without restricting freedom of different positioning, especially respecting national equality, especially respecting interethnic relations. Unfortunately, we've been finding out lately that's not the case. The last letter that we could read this morning on one of the portals sent by one of the employees and journalists of HRT, which points to a very serious and worrying situation on the media when the fundamental and fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution are: the right to freedom of opinion, the right to freedom of expression and the right to professional and impartial journalism and, in particular, to safeguard international relations. '90s. Years and '91. many people have been kicked out of work because of their ethnicity, or have simply been told at ports that you no longer belong when they come to work the next morning. One of the people who participated in this business somewhere in this row, on this side, '96. Or '95. When I first swore and acted as a representative of this House on my discussion, he told me what you stayed here, I will not repeat his word. What you have stayed here, I will translate it with another word, which is suffering from public speech, and I will renew the Croatian people. The word began with the same letter. For not going to Belgrade. If today on Croatian Radio and Croatian TV there are people who count blood cells to journalists, there are people who count blood cells to government officials and who object to whom they have married, how we colleagues and colleagues can be sure that this medium and these people will perform the work according to the programme we have adopted here, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution. And isn't it time to finally stop poisoning the citizens of this country based on ethnic, religious and political hatred, and isn't it time for the public media to be the one to raise their voice, not to participate in it, your vote against, and not to participate in it, and whether it's not time for us to instead of poisoning people with that kind of story to commit ourselves to what this country needs most, which is to be arranged and to be prosperous. To be arranged in accordance with its laws and to be prosperous with its economic condition. My colleagues and colleagues, in recent months, have been sending messages on Croatian Radio for the past few weeks and on Croatian TV about how Jure Francetic is negative and some positive. Football matches continue to be heard without any comment in the transfer of "kill, kill a Serb". When it happens that on a TV show, a soap opera person makes a failure, and when things like this happen, there's no need for it to act resolutely. It is insinuating because of the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution which we have all sworn upon and which we have an obligation to respect, regardless of the differences between political, biographical or any other, because they are the assumptions of our freedom of political action and our freedom of political appearance, regardless of who has an opinion, who has been more conservative or who has been in any other direction left or more advanced. In this regard, Mr Vice-President, I ask that the Committee on Information and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities meet at a joint session to discuss this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37718	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the MPs' club... Wait a minute. Here's your colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37719	Dear Mr. Vice President, in accordance with Article 225 of the Rules of Procedure, I request a break for the 15-minute session of the Croatian Democratic Community Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37720	A reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37721	The reason is the topic that was launched by his step-by-step esteemed colleague, Pupovac, and since we did not. ... Will you let me say it all the way? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37722	Yeah, yeah, I'll let you. My colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37723	Since we didn't know for reasons we couldn't show ourselves at the time when he was looking for a break for his club's session, so now that we've heard the subject we're looking for a break for the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37724	Thank you. I'm approving a 10-minute break. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37725	For the same reason the Labour Club is looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37727	He'll probably have to say something after that. We're looking for a five-minute break to figure out how we're gonna react.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37728	I'm approving a 10-minute break. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 10.13 HOURS]] Word has the HDZ club, pal, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must admit that this topic is put I would say ad hoc on Parliament's agenda, but given the performance of my colleague, Pupovac, I think we are obliged and we are to manifest ourselves on the subject he has opened here. Inspired by the articles on the internet portals for which we can naturally assume how accurate the colleague Pupovac has come forward by saying about the editorial policy of HRT, what is the way public service works and has set up some thesis for which here and personally, and in the name of the club I can say that he would mostly sign it himself. Of course, we agree with that and we advocate that we said fat in the 21st century, and that we are constantly returning to some topics and divisions of society on different grounds. Whether it's an ideological, religious, national or some other belonging. And I would say what we've been saying since the first day we've been performing on behalf of the party is that we condemn the division of Croatian society on any basis and that it's really time for the state to face much more serious problems than the ones we're talking about. But I can't agree to base our own steps on individual excesses, especially those that happen at sports courts or football games, because I believe it's the opinion of a small number of people, and that's not what our public opinion should be or the greatest part of society. And we condemn, of course, an approach that, on any basis, which I've already said in advance, divides in our society. What I think is important, and what we were saying at the time when it was about public service and HRT that the way of appointment in public institutions, in public institutions that were decorated by changes to the law and then in the political likeness of those who would run public services gave their first results. And these are the results that most often people who are obviously not responsible enough or mature enough to perform and act these duties then come forward and spread national or any other intolerance in society. It's for every conviction! But for every conviction and where we haven't heard of anyone getting up to protect the dignity of people, we are so witnessing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia rather than dealing with serious economic issues and problems in society de facto insisted on some sort of ideological debate. Remember health care or remember the actions of individual officials of the Government of the Republic of Croatia who allowed themselves to speak with hate to colleagues acting on a political stage. So we heard that some of the colleagues were chosen with the legitimate and legal mandate of Croatian voters are a fundamental disaster, that these are people that can't be told anything good, but then in their defense no one stood up because it seemed better to have official policy and thus be determined by individuals in society. What we're looking for, we're asking for to be a performance in the protection of human rights and dignity of every man equally and objectively, so I'm not going to refer to some of the texts some of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is generously financially supporting, only in this speech will I say that there are also criminal charges against some of the papers that have spoken of Croatia as an American whore who has actually come to charge her cheap services from her strong and financially and politically powerful partners. At that time, no one got up to condemn such articles, and we call this way to condemn everything that any division in Croatian society has done regardless of who it was and how loud they were in power or in opposition [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] We support the proposal of an esteemed colleague of Pupovac to meet the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and then to discuss all such cases and draw conclusions that will serve this Parliament's honour. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37731	Thank you. Next on behalf of Croatian Labourists is counterpart Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37732	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's sad when deep in the 21st century we have to talk in the Croatian Parliament about nationalism, about chauvinism, about the suspicion that the media is announcing that such things happen on HRT. There are examples that, we're witnessing that civilization's reach is collapsing. There are examples of greetings on April 10th, clapping on it. There are examples of counts of blood cells, and everything under the exception of what they did to us is 91. No one here should argue that the 91st aggression against the Republic of Croatia, but no one today has the right to do what is done, has the right as an argument for chauvinism, for nationalism, for counting blood cells to draw 22 years old history. Every nationalism, chauvinism, homophobia for us is unacceptable. I think we should all come to the same conclusion here in the Croatian Parliament that any outburst that happens on the public media, and these outbursts have happened, and I agree with my colleague Pupovac, the shows are fun are off because they were bad. Croatian Radio Television leadership met in a few days and downloaded those shows. When there are excesses where blood cells are either counted or criminals from World War II are magnified then there are no serious reactions from Croatian radio television. It is absolutely certain that, remember we discussed Croatia's radio television well, we said don't do television where one man has all the power on Croatian radio television, the consequence of chaos that is not arranged on Croatian radio television the consequences of chaos we see today. To discuss and negotiate with the previous Committee on Information, Information and Media, we will discuss what is happening on Croatia's radio television but from a broader context, because we also get voices that there are political commissioners, but there are also those who tell these political commissioners today if this is true what it says will be calculated when the government changes. Some other political commissioners to their political commissioners. I think it's sad and sad. When we have already had the opportunity to talk about these things, I would only mention another problem that is valid these days, which is that the representatives of the Croatian Parliament have been on the media for days, so I ask the Croatian Parliament's presidency to take the view that everyone has the right to criticise, everyone has the right to evaluate our work, but behind every criticism should stand the name and last name of the critic, the name and the name that is being criticised. To question the entire parliament, to suspect that representatives of the Croatian Parliament do not earn and do not deserve not these salaries, but no salaries, if we agree here in the Croatian Parliament, then we should be disbanded. I therefore ask the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament to take a position on this, to plead if necessary, to hold a session of the Croatian Parliament on these issues, on the functioning of the Parliament, on this and on our role in society. But here again I note, I condemn any nationalism, chauvinism, homophobia that is unacceptable, and I ask you nicely to return to the issues which, especially in this Croatian Assembly, which are important for Croatia and these are economic issues, an increasing number of people are digging through garbage cans and I think this is a very important issue at this point with the fact that we are not underestimating what Mr. Pupovac is talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37733	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDSS Club, colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37734	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't understand how people in Croatia, especially some, are not tired of being recognized as non-Croatian, as Serbs, as Roma, as Jews, as commies, as robbers, as I don't know what kind. But I'm tired of being a Serb after this pay phone. And I felt that a few months before this country's entry into the EU, I could have full citizenship for this speaker, in this House and in this society, which means that my political work and my political action and the political action of my colleagues from the party I belong to is not about Serbia and the story of Serbs. That's why I'm in politics. And I think that this, we can end this business, that we can change this situation in Croatia if we really join in protecting the fundamental constitutional values of the fellow Mlakar, but not relativate them, there will always be a difference in opinion, there will always be arguments ad hoc or at the border ad hoc, but that is something else, it is a matter of decency, it is a question of skills in relation to what are fundamental constitutional rights, right of speech, right of freedom of opinion, right of freedom of expression, national equality and fundamental political values such as the social state and such as protecting Croatia's fundamental interests towards the outside. If it turns out that for these or those reasons, we have recently grown rhetoric that is worrying. It's true. Meetings of pre-election individual coalitions welcomed April 10th. Yes, it is contrary to the Croatian Constitution. It's true. There were members of that same coalition who said some guests were here. This is in breach of the basic provisions of the Croatian Constitution. There's no doubt about it. It is true that Croatian Radio and HRT are heard shouting from the stadium killing, killing Serbs, if it were one, two or five people would not hear. It takes at least a few hundred of them. If that happens again and no one comments on it and if it is released with the right citizenship in the Croatian public then it is the subject of discussion because it involves poisoning among our people. I don't say who should be sued or accused or sanctioned. That's not what I'm saying. That's not our job. Our job is to raise our voice and safeguard the dignity of democracy and preserve the constitutional values of this country. That's our job. They can call us out for as much pay as they want, but protecting the Constitution, constitutional order, fundamental values we need to keep here, and that's the meaning of my message. Otherwise, if we allow our country to be incomplete three months before joining the EU in this way to compromise and that there is nothing, it ends with some people in their madness or I don't know what intentions they throw motif cocktails at the embassies of other countries that didn't even happen in this country's most difficult times. What kind of picture we're going to give and provide about ourselves. For that reason, if we can't do it with the private media, we can do it with the media that we're the founder. We can. People can really have different opinions and have different opinions and belong to different worlds, but we must protect them from this kind of conflict especially from threats, especially from reading who is who and who is who in whom. In this regard, I would like to thank those who have supported the meeting of the Committee on Information and the Committee on Human Rights and to discuss what needs to be discussed with regard to the state of the public service and in the public space.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37735	Thank you. We continue with the debate, the draft law amending the law on sports. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37736	Dear Vice-President, Your Honor, since the minister does not have, dear colleagues, to remind the 12th of last year, we had a debate in this House about the Law in Sports and a few days before that on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the minister said that by autumn it would be over, that a whole law will be amended before us, in which all the changes that are necessary will be made. What did we get? However, we have received an amendment to the law on sport that applies to only one article, Article 81, and the law that actually deals with material, permanent fees for athletes. However, the promoter even went with a change in the formulation in that part, and the title of that part is now called state recognitions to medal winners at the Olympic Games, the Parolympic Games, the Olympic Games of Deaf and World Championships in Olympic Sports and Discipline. I don't know what that is because it's material or financial income. What's with the state's confessions? I think that there was that so far's name was more appropriate possibly if it was intended to expand with this part. For world championships, this could be the only thing that could be added to world championships in Olympic sports, which, in my opinion, raises the doubt that has already been said here today, is it sending a false message? Is there one of you I hope there isn't anyone who hasn't heard of the Fox Government? A man who is the conqueror of the Petrinjac Olympic medals, otherwise I mention him because he's from my neighborhood and who you all know, or I hope you know at least those who are following the sport to say now the actual story that wrestling will no longer be an Olympic sport. Is there anyone who hasn't heard especially older about Jelica Pavlicic, a world record player in athletics, if I remember well 400 meters that didn't win the Olympic medal. Ana Znaor is the conqueror of European gold in the Tekvando. Biserka Perman thinks she was also mentioned by her colleague by the most trophy Croatian and world bowling player. These are all athletes who have placed praises, who have achieved commendable results, and we are now putting them in another category. When it comes to breaking world records, you have a chance now so ask, let's say, Blanca Vlasic, who I believe will all agree that it is the top of world sport itself, which means winning and breaking the world record. How long does this pain last and ultimately fail, and we are now putting it in another category because breaking the world record by us is not that range of winning the Olympic medal. I believe that most of you are aware and that let's say some European championships are stronger than the world. In world terms, you have to agree to that that all corners of the world, all continents are equally represented until, say, that sport is a sport that is traditionally tied to Europe alone. And now you have a situation where the conqueror of European gold does not exercise the right to this state recognition, although I think it's more appropriate to have an old name, but let's say someone who won the Olympic medal, not underestimating it, is exercising the right to a permanent fee. As far as the text of the law is concerned, I cannot agree that this is in the interest of sports, athletes, this reduced age limit. These athletes are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and should be realistic and look at it in the context of the state of the country. In his opening statement, the minister just mentioned this financial effect, which means that we now have a situation to say athletes at 45 years of age are exercising certain permanent rights, we will not call them sports pensions no need, but they are exercising these permanent rights while, say, workers who worked in the real sector, all those who worked or unfortunately did not work because they have no jobs, have to wait another 20 years. Do you think that's real? The other thing that bothers me and I don't see logic is the elimination of property censorship. I don't want to apostrophe anyone but you think that one Nikola Dragaš is known in his absolutely sport, could he have achieved some revenue in his sport, such as Ivanisevic, Kukoč, Rajje or such, and this is a neo-Olympic sport? Are we just? I think if we want to make some law that I think is the point of every law being fair to everyone, but what do we do now? Okay. Said immediately the minister was correct here, it goes on its own request, but we gave him the opportunity. I agree that everyone should get what they deserve, they should make it possible but they should also take care of the time we live in. We have an example of the situation I will repeat again and Jelica Pavličić, who I don't even know how she lives today, I know that Mr. Lisjak is still active in sports, but frankly in these sports there is no material security for that third age, for old age. And now we have a situation that we're going to give this opportunity to people who really don't know I won't sin on the soul but they probably have more money than the state budget. Is that real? Is that hit? Therefore, I appeal that this is the first reading but I appeal to the representatives of the ministry to withdraw this proposal, to make a complete proposal for a complete law on sport, which will process this part among other things, because the people who are in these sports that are neo-Olympic or are not winners of the World Cup or Olympic Games were also in some competitions where Croatian anthem and vijorils are Croatian flag and are also the pride of Croatia. I think they should be involved in that story too, having some whole debate about it, having a public debate for a little while longer, no need for this ad hoc overnight solution, let's bring this up, because this is not going to mention Super Hick, but frankly we're giving opportunity to people who do, and on the other hand we've made some selection, so we've decided and some of us don't need to. I don't think that's what I'm hoping that's even the proposer's goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37737	Thank you. We have a replica on your presentation of colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37738	Comrade Novak, two things I'd like to replicate with you. First, you said Minister Jovanovic promised last year that he would be on the assembly benches of the Sport Act last fall and that he would be a full sport law and not just one segment you talked about today. But we still have until autumn, it's only the fourth month because he didn't say which fall. That's the first one. And the other thing is, many athletes I've read say they'd give all the Olympic medals, all the world's medals just to break the world record. Remember all those presses Blanca Vlasic held and what that record meant to her, which would mean. And in the end, when you look at some tables, it's always above all about who broke the world record and how much he kept that world record. And really in this way do the difference between the Olympic medal winners and those who have broken the world record and who have even repeatedly mentioned themselves in some statistics from Olympic medal winners who can win an Olympic medal with far weaker results. I don't think it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37739	Thank you. Next on behalf of the club representative of HSU Zeljko Shemper. And, uh, excuse me, colleague Shemper, here's an answer to the line. Comrade Novak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37740	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, you have actually confirmed my thesis about the world record and whether world records should have found places in this. As for autumn, I believe that there is a good intention in the ministry to bring, to make, to create a quality proposal of a law on sport that will satisfy everything, or there is no one that can satisfy everything, but at least try to be satisfactory for most. I think I'm suggesting, this proposal, which is ahead of us with an amendment to an article, will bring even more confusion and even more confusion in sport itself. What is the Minister today, I see that this book here in front of you has shown that there is a strategy to compare the financing of clubs and sports in Europe and in our country, let it be a good basis for making a new law whether or not for some broad public debate. I believe that the state of sports is not only interested in active athletes and only top athletes, they are very interested in parents. And the fact is that for those young and gifted athletes who have to, which practically if their parents don't have the resources, they have to devote themselves to something else, that's the problem the ministry should be dealing with. However, there is no word in this proposal. Here we only deal with top athletes who only won certain medals and only in certain sports. I don't think that's right either to these others, and on the other hand, I think the ministry should be more committed to this other part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37741	Thank you, too. I'm a colleague of Schamper's on behalf of the HSU Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the assistant minister, colleagues and colleagues. Sport activity is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and has a great social importance and educational role. Any sporting activity plays a major role in the health care of all age groups from children to pensioners. Croatian athletes made a significant contribution to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia especially in the early 1990s to their exceptional results and achievements in the biggest sports competitions. According to them, our young state was recognized, they were the best ambassadors of little-known Croatia. One small number of our athletes achieved a brilliant international professional career and well charged for their efforts and talents. Unfortunately, some of them decided to report their residence in countries with lower tax rates while ordinary mortals spent the entire working life in the Republic of Croatia and paid taxes in their country. There's one big difference between athletes and sports. There are large and small sports, very popular and less popular, professional and amateur. Sports where big money runs and those who barely survive. I am already the first draft of the law because the media have so transferred that it is a sport pension, it has come across great criticism in the Croatian public because it would be another one in a series of 14 types of pensions under special preferential regulations that are not paid to contribute. In particular, the age of 45 as well as the proposal on the amount of compensation in one and a half average salary was annoying. While a pensioner who has spent 40 years of his life with an average salary in the Republic of Croatia cannot have a pension of more than 3,000 kuna. The first proposal was only about medal winners at the Olympic Games and justifiably were bitter medal winners at the Paralympic Games and the Olympic Games of the Deaf, as well as those medal winners at the World Championships. Such laws have already become a Croatian specialty and are particularly well known to pensioners according to the already known attitude. We'll give these to each other and we won't give them to them because it would cost too much the state budget. And this is how injustices are created. And to correct, it takes years. This proposal, as well as the one before it, is not about sports pensions, but about permanent cash fees, now also about recognitions for medal winners. But as a pensioner writes to me, it doesn't matter what it's called a pension, a fee, or a gift from heaven, it's important to end up in a bank account. And while the world's institutions are proposing to the European Stock Exchange an extension of age to 67 years, we are trying to make pensioners of relatively young people in 45 years of life. In recent years, many workers have ended up on the market at the age of 50, and in their profession they can no longer get a job, so they are recommended requalification. Most of our medal winners are well cared for not only by what they have earned in their sports careers, but many of them are coaches, sports employees in clubs, sports alliances and the like. As can be seen from the bill, it is not about the large resources that will save Croatia but, in my assessment, it is about a law that has almost no criteria. There have been before, I'm talking about property censorship and they've been kicked out of this law. Wherever the state gives something special in social policy, there is always someone giving limited income or property censorships. And among the conquerors are medals depending on which sport they choose, there are millionaires and those who survive. In addition to the lack of criteria, I am most disappointed with the proposal that only medal winners have the right to compensation at world championships in Olympic sports. I wonder if it's discrimination against medal winners in neo-Olympic sports, or if there's a softer word for such a position as the legislator of this law. Is there really nothing worth three titles of world champion Nikola Dragaš or the gold medals of Croatian bowling girls who were in '92? The first team gold for independent Croatia was won at the Prague World Cup. How, for example, the law will solve the winners of wrestling medals at the Olympic Games and those of the world championship winners if the intention of the International Olympic Committee is adopted to stop wrestling because of a weaker interest from being an Olympic sport. I personally believe that it should stick to the principle that each won medals of any glare worth the achievement in which a lot of sweat, love and denial was built in, was won at the OL, at the world championship, in a big or small sport. By the Constitution, we're all equal. People don't need to make a difference, and especially not in sports among medal winners. Finally, to recapitulate, first of all because of the economic and financial situation in the country, it is not a good time to apply this law. When the law comes in some better times, the law must have certain criteria of property censorship for granting the proposed fees. The biggest observation is that such a legal solution discriminates against all medal winners at world championships in non-Olympic sports. Such a solution is not in line with the position of the International Olympic Committee which does not make a difference between athletes. I hope that until the second reading, the Ministry will appreciate our remarks that are aimed at a better, fairer law and evaluation and evaluation of the success of all top athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37743	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Branko Vuksic, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37744	Dear colleague, as we said yesterday, the replica is consent. I agree with most or almost all of your exposure, and I particularly support your view that those who have put away their money oasis have earned tens or hundreds of millions of not kuna but also the euro and dollars. It is absolutely certain that they should not be in those categories to receive financial compensation for state recognition, as they are called medal winners, etc. etc. Those who put away their money... and do not pay taxes to the Croatian state, and often drill and hold hands when the Croatian anthem plays that they are great Croats, but they do not show it as well as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay taxes in Croatia. And now, from that state in which they have not contributed in the form of taxes, they should receive monthly fees of several thousand kunas. And I totally agree, there's one of the athletes who said, that's Tony Kukoch who said don't give it to me, it doesn't make sense. So there are athletes who know how people in Croatia live, so I think it's a matter of this award and a deep moral question because many medal winners have won so much money that they can, workers must probably work for that whole street of workers for hundreds of years to get that figure. So let's not act like drunk millionaires, think twice about what, what, who and who exactly agree with that thesis is not just Olympic sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37745	Now, we can ask ourselves what the replica was. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Shemper, whether you will be able to respond to the replica, to the disagreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37746	Well, I can't answer like a replica, but I can see that we really agree with each other on this bill that there's something wrong and that there's a lot to fix. I have most pointed out the problem of the criteria in that first proposal and there was, but I don't know for what reason they are now excluded from this proposal, especially when I look at the big differences in the receipts of our athletes, those top-notch careers, basketball players in America, and up to one of our pesals, for example, in lifting weights that won the medal. Although a national of a foreign country won the medal for Croatia, as far as we can hear today lives really under impossible conditions. And most of all because it's not the time for this law to be applied in a 5-year recession, and I think that, with the amendments to these laws that are going to fall here today, that this law is being extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37747	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP representative Mario Habek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37748	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Skansi, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have new amendments to the law and additions to the Sports Act. The reason is certainly not a great success of some Croatian team or individual in major world competitions, the reason is neither euphoria nor national pride that causes the success of our athletes and athletes in competitions around the world. The reason is very prosaistic, but at the same time euphoric for all athletes and athletes. As a athlete, I can say a neo-Olympic and very unusual sport I feel a moral obligation to speak today in this House about the Proposal for amendments to the Sport Act because I know from my own experience that as a community we must do much better to our relations with athletes and athletes, women and men who in sports uniforms and sports polls burn or once burned for the Homeland that they made us today or made us proud when we were live or with TV screens and radios, cried, cheered, cheered, cried, eventually rejoiced as citizens of this country, and eventually we listened to the play of Croatian anthem while winning various medals. It is true that this mixture of sports-national enthusiasm lasts a little longer than the competition itself for our viewers, and these 5 minutes of fame and joy for athletes and athletes are only a fraction of the time they have spent to reach that goal. Behind those five minutes of winning podium are years of hard, hard work, giving up watching TV, hanging out with friends, separation from family, and often giving up the educational process. Very often their successes are actually the successes of their families who have invested both time and money for their sport development. What we as a community of citizens as a state can do today is a small step towards a fairer evaluation of their results, according to the expression of thank you that is not just a pat on the shoulder, but something much more concrete. Being a athlete today is not easy and requires a lot of denial, training, investment in time and money. Thousands of sportsmen never reach world championships or Olympic games or ever get a chance to win a medal. But that doesn't mean they didn't make it. Their practice of sports is a great gain for the community, as sports make responsible, healthy, and valuable citizens of this country. On the other hand, those who make it to the medal become national heroes and role models for young people, young athletes and athletes who are just entering all sports. And these women and men should say thank you not only at airports and city squares when we give them welcomes, but in 10 or 20 years when we forget about them and when their fame is no longer in the public interest. They must be a role model to young generations and as athletes and as people their whole lives, and therefore the community must help them if they failed to cash their medals as athletes because they were engaged in a sport that was not regular tennis, football, basketball, or a similar sport. A top athlete must remain a top athlete and a top man. All his life and we need dignity to ensure that he feels useful and busy and to be a role model for young generations of athletes who go to his or her feet in a particular sport. Why is it important today when only the money spinning in top sports is in front of some people, so that through these satisfied former top athletes, we send a message to those who enter the world of sports that not everything is money and that sport is much more than a million dollars won to win a tournament. Many have already objected in a public debate that the amounts of fees and age limits are questionable. In determining these parameters, it should have been very careful because it seems to me that the aim of this law must not be to create a privileged group of people, athletes, athletes, but this fee for sports success should only be considered as recognition and support for the implementation of lifelong activities in sport. This will bring their knowledge back to sports. Sports is a very well-organized activity and the sport knows exactly how to value the results. In sports, not all winners, not all champions. There are age limits and various other benchmarks of success. Therefore, certain restrictions from the age limit of 45 years to restrictions on the membership of the Olympic movement, or sports that are in the Olympic family of sports, had to be incorporated into the law. It may be unfair from the point of view of many athletes who deal with various other sports that are not Olympic, but this law is a big step forward for athletes and should be supported. In the end, I want to say that this is a good way for us as a society, as a people to admit to athletes and athletes that they've made us proud once or more, that for them and in our everyday lives we've had more power and optimism, that we've told our children that we should try and be as valuable as those athletes and those athletes. To show thanks to these people and their return to sports, I think it's the greatest value of this law and that's why the SDP club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37749	Thank you, too. We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37750	Thank you very much. Well, you said in the debate that sport is a lot more than a million dollars won in careers or so on. through some rewards, fees or profits. We don't argue. However, there remains one taste of bitterness that we have divided athletes into those who were lucky and those who were not lucky, and that happiness is manifested in these Olympic Games. So I wanted to ask you because I can't read it from this text of the law whether it's on this list of 38 bronze medals and the Croatian football team from '98. A year as the winner of the bronze medal. So, will our football players who made the team Ladić, Štimac, Bilić, Asanović, Prosinečki etc. be based on this and then on this. to have the right to such compensation on the basis of this request if they submit it, means and by the basis of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37751	Thank you. Next replica Branko Hrg, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37752	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you said that this is not a privileged group of Croatian citizens, this is a privileged group and what these amendments of the law actually bring only that part. It is certain that every athlete who wins the medal for Croatia is Croatia's best ambassador and that it should simply be appreciated, respected and always bowed to. But it is also certain that I do not believe that one of these athletes is going to fight for the medal, goes to the team to fight for Croatia for the money they will later get, and besides, you said yourself that it is so, that it is a sports spirit. What no one, therefore, probably doesn't mind is that the rewards of those who haven't earned the enormous profit that has been said here. Because it really looks funny in that part of it once that someone who really has so much money that they can really buy malts not all and can still get out of the state budget some money. So we should categorize the probably thing. There are sports that don't bring money, and they honor the state. And that part needs to be seen. And it's particularly important, when we talk about the Law of Sports, that it's not a good situation for him to be brought in this part of the segment, that he's not fully watched. What about those people you talked about in sports, gathering young people, working amateurs, dragging young people away from vices, dealing with them, and they're gone? So here is the story not against this but really one serious debate about the Law of Sports which will then clearly define all that it takes to get as many young people together in sport as possible, that those who win medals are honored for these medals and rewarded in any way but not in this way let's now give money to everyone who won medals for Croatia and these others will see it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37753	Thank you. Next replica, Sun Head. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Habek is few who have won a million dollars, very few. Croatia has many more athletes who have brought us pride, honor and glory but few have won a million dollars. I feel the same way about what my colleagues have said before that it's not good to do so. discrimination. Equally not only does it matter that they will receive, it is important to return these people back to the system of sports. They know and can help, that's important. Give them a chance to make their own money, to be our promoters, to use their names and last names in promotion and tourism if you will, economies and in many other ways. And not give them an average salary in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, for many of them it will be a salvation. It is sad that they end up because of their sports successes, because of their sports efforts many of them did not have the opportunity to school or did not finish colleges and did not manage the labour market. You said the Sports Act, we have new amendments to the Sports Act again. You're right. We're changing the Sports Act every once in a while. We changed it last year, we begged the minister to make up for it then in the Sports Act, there were preconditions for it, and nothing happened. I am also asking myself now why we did not immediately do what we are going to do after July 1st, and this is the way to finance sports because, as you know, the Competition Protection Agency has sent the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports a guide or if you want a warrant, one warning about what will happen to the system of financing sports in the Republic of Croatia after Croatia's entry into the EU. So we could do it today, or if we could do it with one law, one amendment, and not every two, three months, we could do it again on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37755	Thank you. And the last replica, Zeljko Schamper. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37756	Well, colleague Habek, you said this was a message to young athletes to play sports. I would add that they have to be careful what sport they're going to play, whether it's Olympic and neolympic. And I wonder how this law will work on non-Olympic sports? More than once, we've heard from athletes themselves that world championships are far stronger competition than Olympic sports, some. At the Olympics come athletes from exotic countries, while at world championships and even Europeans, competition is far stronger. And I wonder how I'm going to explain to my fellow citizen, Zeljki Orehovec, that her world record and world champion title is worth nothing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37757	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representative Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37758	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed assistant minister and respected colleagues and fellow MPs. As a state recognition for a special contribution to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, the current Law on Sports has been written to grant permanent cash compensation to Croatian athletes who won the medal in the Olympic, Paralympic and Olympic Games of the Deaf and thus indemnified the Republic of Croatia. This new legislative proposal proposes abolishing the property censorship, changing the age limit for the exercise of rights and redefining competitions for which permanent cash compensation is granted. To point out the wording again, athletes worked hard, so they put us in charge. We were first assigned to the moral part, socially responsible and publicly responsible. Thanks to them, Croatia is known in all parts of the world and has contributed to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia at the beginning, they are indeed our best ambassadors today. Indemnity and obligation is financial. And this is based on the right to permanent cash compensation that athletes with 45 years of life who are Croatian citizens, have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and are not legally convicted of a criminal offence for which the sentence of prison is prescribed for more than 5 years. The right to a permanent monthly fee would be granted by a athlete who fulfils those conditions and who, at his request, is granted a solution by the Ministry of Sport. That I would really stress on his request and also on the basis of the ministry's solution. So that's how we avoid that part of the moral dilemma whether he deserved it or didn't deserve it. He has the right to do so really from this part of what we said he owed Croatia, has results, has excellence, is rewarded excellence, and sometimes that part sees whether he can consume it or wants it for certain reasons. And yet it is the ministry that, in its final decision, can, on all these arguments, make that decision or not make that decision. It is also an emphasis that this compensation is permanent i.e. For life or whether we can call it our own conditional retirement that we talked about. But it can still be discussed, but still the pension no, the fee is a really good definition. The fees range from 5464 to 3728 depending on medals and competitions at the Olympic Games or World Cups. The fees are linked to the average net wages per legal person employed who precedes the memory of the right to compensation according to the publication of the State Statistics Office, and they are also allocated by percentages of 40 to 100%. Whether it's a high fee or less, we always have to discuss it, someone's too much, and someone's very, very little. But some level absolutely in that part must be set. What matters most is that the Paralympics are evenly equal in rights like all other athletes. There was a lot of doubt about whether this paralympic fee should be in some percentage smaller or not, whether their efforts to win such a prize or medal were adequate. But I think in any case it's very good and right that they're even in their rights and with other athletes. In accordance with the envisaged criteria, the right to this cash compensation for winning medals in the Olympic Games would currently be achieved by a total of 202 athletes according to these criteria. All living athletes, medal winners at Olympic, Paralympic or Olympic games and world championships in Olympic sports are taken into account. In order to achieve these cash compensation rights, funds were planned in the national budget for 2013 at a level of slightly over 12 million kuna. Total in that part of the maximum estimate is 14 468 000 kuna because we know that this right and fee will accumulate over the years and it is good that Croatia is safe and should and wishes to have as many medals as possible. But what you would particularly like to point out in this part of the bill, which is that, what are these athletes' obligations from the moment they receive those fees? What is said, which I really agree, is that whenever you get certain social resources, public funds need to have some commitment, which is that these athletes who are exceptional experts, they are also excellent educators of great sports and life experience, and they need those skills to pass on to other athletes above all to amateurs, to young people in those environments where such conditions for the development of a sport and that of a top sport in a way that they can really, during their exercise of sport and reach the goal, which is to win a medal or a certain sports record that can enable them to do so. What we think and suggest is that we should work on building sport infrastructure, which is that primarily those places where these athletes should be with young people, not only with young people, but with amateurs, all ages and recreationals, veterans, disabled people to be our primary schools and all other schools, that we have halls from these schools. But what is best for us to have sports camps, which Croatia unfortunately does not have. What is also defined as being the subject of these sports buildings and defined that the Council of the Republic of Croatia, with the agreement of the sports alliances, will bring proposals on the network of these sports buildings, on a proposal from the Government. And we really should define to go to one systematic and planned construction of these sports camps for football, had only had for professional football, and we know how it ends, what Dinam's stadium looks like to us, what the attempts of the Croatian Football Federation on Tuhelje are like to build a sports camp, so now they don't even know where this rock is based, and someone stole it. In any case, it should be a priority, working with young people, working with amateurs, with recreationals, everyone in this part of our Croatia should be engaged in sports. Because sports is no longer just a term to waste time, but it is above all an educational but health care. And with this we can really get a lot from these people, and above all, when they were engaged in sports, when they were also getting results, and in particular, they would have a lot from these athletes and the moment they passed on knowledge to others. And in any case, this is the law, and any other law that will contribute to the award of achievement, I stress that we should encourage excellence and that is the foundation of this act of law, we leave the social community somewhere else, if we need anything. Excellence is also important in any case if it is a more quality, humane approach and a reduction of discrimination when you really work with athletes then the Croatian People's Party Club Liberal Democrats will support any such law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37759	Thank you, too. We've registered two replicas to your exhibit. The first one came from Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37760	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well fellow Skurić, therefore, we agree in that part that it is uncontestable that those people who put us in sports, and when we were immensely happy when medals were won and there was no discussion about it. But I am more invited to the replica by your thinking that it is necessary to build infrastructure so that as many young people as possible can engage in sports because, of course, as active as possible, more talent can certainly be produced in that part. And in that sense you said it was necessary in schools, so specifically engage. But I want to warn you that they are not, the intentions are of course excellent and I welcome in every sense, but of course not in every environment are not equal possibilities, they are not equal opportunities and certainly are not able to have all of them building a sports hall mainly in circumstances where the only local self-governments are limited, when they are in some way reduced in that part, and when they start to follow the necessary documentation, then they start in the middle is such a number of students, it is a single, two-part, etc. These are, right now, these administrative obstacles that our young people are being disabled. They are disabled, of course, because they are dislocated from significant sports centres and are not in an equal position. So, you should certainly potentiate what you said, that it is necessary in every environment to build objects where young people are engaged in sports, and it is also known that many of our famous athletes came from smaller environments where they started playing football with those balls that were less quality, etc. In that sense, I support this debate of yours, and I think they should consider it... Thank you very much. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37761	Thank you, too. We have an answer, Comrade Skuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37762	Here I can really point out that two things that are important for the development of young people to play sports, which is primarily talent and coach who will work with this young person to grind that talent out, and the other is really that sport infrastructure. But when you know that, then define good priorities. What we who run municipalities and cities, which is the priority of investing in young and educated people, then in our own areas, we will define that. For example, my county and my city have three elementary schools. All three are on one shift, all three have school gyms so that we adequately have the opportunity to use the gym in the morning shift and all the recreationals use it on weekends. What investment in infrastructure can especially say that we built a climbing rock in our hall that has few amongst others and in a year we got up to ten years of state climbing champion. Here's what you need to give, an opportunity for young people to take advantage of it but that's all I can say, practically all of that infrastructure we've funded from our own budgets and we've financed from EU funds. And also what is intense and concrete we can propose in our city we have a proposal to build also a sports camp for women's football. We were already hosting six international camps or women's football tournaments that were really all these countries around. We practically almost funded it ourselves. We are also planning to make tournaments of women's football of all the primary secondary schools of our region, that this initiative from the local level and all the help I must thank here the assistant minister where we have indicated that we can. We are entering the EU and such infrastructure can be financed from EU funds. What is said to define this Assembly is what we want, which are our directions, plannedly oriented and then we can achieve these goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37763	And the last replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37764	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, I would like to raise a very different question which is closely related to the Sport Act but also to these changes in sports. So the overall development and the top athlete starts from the local environment, so from amateur sport because no one is born a professional and today is this amateur sport local sport without therefore being responsible, without almost a single sponsor because our situation in the economy is so. Honor the exceptions. So in the local environment, practically with exceptions when local self-government in collaboration with certain ministries and specific programmes and even pre-accession Union funds creates conditions for sports development now in the pre-election campaign, closed swimming pools and jumping pools are promised. Practically, there will be Olympic games in certain environments but it is a normal matter of pre-election campaign. At the same time, however, sports associations and sports clubs are viewed according to those regimeal costs as an economy, thus paying for the most expensive gas, the most expensive electricity, the water is not paid because they are freed at least in Djakov one such decision and the government is practically doing nothing to protect sport at the lowest level. So you can imagine a football club that at this point pays 70% or 50% more expensive gas as energy because it's thought to be a legal person, practically in the system of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37765	Thank you. We have an answer from my colleague Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37766	Well, we always go back on the ground, and that's the money, the financing of such activities. I'd like to mention two things here, first this liquid part of what you mentioned about clubs dealing with. This should, however, be submitted to me by the local administration, if someone wants to engage in sports you have so many clubs, then they must have a basis in their budget and of course it is financed from the budget. But what are the other costs that are higher, for example, is now generally not respected, and that is that only for clubs for some way of health care and checks are paid big money. And not only that, but I don't have to be a specialist in sports medicine who would do this to young people and athletes, because injuries are often very common. So we still need to define the costs well, at the local level dealing with sport local levels should still be financed locally self-government adequately with their capabilities, and this upgrade really needs to work intensively through football alliances, through the Olympic Committee and of course through the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37767	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the debate will be shared by Igor Cešek and Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, pal, Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37768	I would like to thank the Vice President, Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The long tradition of sports is the enthusiasm of an individual guarantee that this activity will also take a significant place in social life both large and small towns and small places that stubbornly resist the collapse of sports clubs. However, there remains a vague status of clubs and thus sport in general. The last few who can safely say what they represent, who they belong to, who they govern, who they are responsible for, what they have? Although their status changes from club names to citizens' associations. Clubs were actually other social entities. For problems in the work or possibly failure of the program no one has ever answered at least so far. Still the only permanent source of funding for sports associations are urban and municipal budgets that have dried up, so often clubs are forced to or give up further competition in higher rankings or make up that parents buy sports equipment for their children from their own pockets, and food and juices when they travel to competitions. Many requests to pay additional funds make it difficult for local self-government units to work because wishes and opportunities cannot be harmonised and sponsored from nowhere. A wide range of families of individual and team sports will surely try to forget as soon as possible, not only because of the difficulties in which the competition was done but also because of the results and current positions on the scales in all sports and nepotism. Whoever was closer to the fire was better warmed up. Which is other honest and hardworking enthusiasts who lovingly raised generations of football players, handball players, wrestlers, throws in despair. We have before us colleagues and colleagues the draft law amending the Sport Act is the first reading. On 12 July 2012, we also had on the benches a bill on amendments to the Law on Sports, and I welcomed the proposed amendments to the existing law on behalf of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, believing that something really would change in Croatian sport because, ultimately, the minister himself was showing us changes. The introduction of order, the drying of swamps by changing the law and the activation of the Sport Inspectorate which plays a role in checking business related to clubs, checking club leaders, how they do business, if they respect the laws and whether they spend public funds on purpose. Today we are still not familiar with the results of this inspection. But what made me most happy in the previous amendments to the law was Article 1(2), which until July of last year said that sport was based on volunteering, and under the minister's law, this article was amended and it now shows that sports activities, activities of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. Respecting this article, I have concluded that more concerns will take place about the amateur recreational sport that he has, and we will all agree on a special role in raising and growing our young. But very quickly I saw that nothing special was done about this matter and that nothing more was invested in that kind of sport than before the amendment of that article. The government's view is, unfortunately, not only of sport but also of other activities, for example. agriculture, which the prime minister and minister of this portfolio like to say is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, and we see where such a strategic branch is today. But to go back to the bill itself and what is proposed in it. The changes are subject to article 81a, which discusses money compensation for athletes to medal winners at the Olympic Games, Paralympic Games, the Olympic Games of the Deaf and New World Championships in Olympic Sports and Discipline. Here we agree with the remarks and the proposal of the Ombudsman persons with disabilities and the Croatian Paralympic Committee to add medal winners to those categories at the World Senior Championships in Paralympic Sports and Discipline and Olympic Sports and Deaf Disciples. Especially because the number of medal winners is very small and would not have a greater impact on the state budget, and such fees would allow them to live a more decent life. What else is changing in that article? Age of persons who exercise the right to compensation. So far, the right to compensation has been given to women of 55 years of age and men of 60 years of age. And according to this proposal, the age limit is reduced to 45 years for both women and men. However, if you read the bill mentioning the financing of compensation to the persons involved in this law, we can see a few illogicalities firsthand. The proposer tells us that the state budget provides a budget of 12 million 431 kuna and that they are sufficient because amendments and amendments to the laws can enter into force at the earliest during the month of March and is the time limit for the adoption of a regulation that will regulate the implementation of the right for a month. If I'm right and the budget doesn't provide enough resources, and since this is only about first reading, I consider the intention of a minister and it's not that such a change of law will take place this year. But what about the development of amateur sports I've already mentioned? Nothing, because if we look at the 2013 budget, we see that the incentives for amateur sports are minimal and they are 253 thousand 195 kuna. With these means, you can't get away with sports. So without investment in such sports, there will be no progress in sport. We can't not invest in amateur sports and expect excellent results in professional sports because we know that most athletes have just come out of this amateur sport. So what should be the goal of this ministry to invest significantly larger financial resources in these amateur clubs and amateur athletes is the only way we can create new generations of top athletes who are certainly the largest ambassadors of the Republic of Croatia and Europe and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37769	Dear Madam Vice President, Assistant Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Skansi. Here's a HDSSB club that can support this bill, we think it's good, but we're looking for a practical introduction of property censorship. We also ask that the right to receive this fee can be given to top athletes who had a residence in the Republic of Croatia and that permanent residence. We can understand that during their professional careers, sports careers if we talk about team sports were also members of some other cubes that lived and worked abroad, but we believe that these top athletes if they wanted to exercise the right to this fee because many athletes did not earn their hands on the heart as because they are different types of sports, not all of them at the same level, that they should still have a registered residence here in the Republic of Croatia and in the Republic of Croatia to pay certain taxes as well as all other citizens and not have a place in Monaco, not having a place on Virgin Islands, etc., so in those tax havens. Although many politicians living in large cities often report their residence in certain units of special state care to get as much income as possible. But here's what we leave to the competent institutions to check first. We are opening the question that is related to coaches, so many coaches are most likely because it is not in the sense of tradition, it was not carried out in that practical part, many have replicas or Olympic medals or medals from the world, European championships. We believe that coaches, therefore, these Olympic winners, world winners, normally everything depends on the medal, should enter one of these categories. And we personally believe that all these athletes, and this is also the intention of this law, should remain in office, not only in promoting sports but also in the function of sports in the Republic of Croatia in general. I will not enter now what happened in the early 1990s when we were just through sport promoting, normally and with the Homeland War and with all those victims, but through sport we promoted the Republic of Croatia the most. Remember also Vrankovic and Drazen in New York, Ivanisevic, basketball team, those games in Barcelona. I still don't understand why you didn't ask for it out when Vrankovic knocked and when we led against that real dream team and said we were playing there against, that my Slavons wouldn't get mad at the Lower Motikina. I'm opening up here certainly the issue of amateur sports, the question of this sport base, the development of sports, where here in the state budget we have practically no more significant means provided. The entire amateur sport has been left to local self-government units that are not all in the same position to invest and develop sports in their local self-government. I come from a city where almost 12 to 13% of total budget revenue is focused on sports. Not only to help clubs, but also to athletes, but also to develop infrastructure. But also this development of infrastructure if we want to continue to maintain this level of result, because obviously we are a nation that is gifted for sport and that by the number of inhabitants we most likely have the most medals from all these medals. There is, above all, a stronger involvement of the state or ultimately real fiscal decentralisation. Here is the question of athletes who also won gold Olympic medals during the former state, which is certainly also a question and one of the concessions with the state because many of the medals that were won by our athletes have attracted me to say, so to speak, the sequence or successor of the former state, which in any case is not good. So it might turn out that Mate Parlov won, his soul rest, won a gold medal for Serbia or Djurdzica Beddov. In any case, we ask, as the HDSSB Club, we are looking for one whole not only to amend the Sport Act, rewarding the merits and not to want this to be one, one pre-election reading of this Act in view of the upcoming, upcoming and local elections, but a whole law on sport that will be founded, so the foundation and that base necessary for the development of the entire Croatian sport, because I repeat, no one was born as a professional. I hope that no one will mind me mentioning certain names and last names, Ivansevic was born with a racket, but probably the family had to invest very much in this development, no one was born with a water polo ball like Rudic, like Šimenc, no one was born after all with a basketball like Skansi and no one with a handball like Balic or Duvnjak, who was born and born in Djakov and represents the future of Croatian handballs as well as the Đakovo handball will return to the first prime minister of the Croatian League. But also thanks only to the local self-government unit because you don't have enough money in the state budget so that all units of local self-government can just create that possibility through the construction of sport infrastructure for sport development. And here I repeat another question, let's remove voluntary fire companies and sports clubs, especially these amateurs from what's called the economy because today a sports club is paying you the highest price of energy, from electricity, from gas, so it's precisely thanks to these prices that put you at risk and its functioning. Here's a thank you very much. I hope you will appreciate the second reading of these thoughts and these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37770	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, before we move on to replicas just to tell you that we're going to be working without a break today, that we're going to do more points 27 to 32, and then tomorrow we're going to start with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary and Medical Products Act, given that we're not going to be proposing for points 33 and 34, so you have information for tomorrow. And now at the presentation of Igor Češek the replica has Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37771	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Chesek, you've pointed out the problems that clubs face in small areas. That's true and I'm testifying to that since in my midst I have three football clubs, a handball club and a women's basketball club. And always all eyes are on the municipality and of course thank God we also have a sports hall that has reborn sports life in our midst, but in that part should be just and say that not all the environments, we have had the opportunity to hear before, not all the environments in the same possibilities. Of course, in these particularly circumstances where their funds have been cut off and in that part of it is your claim that the Ministry should absolutely show greater attention to amateur sport. These 250 or 260 grand, so it's nothing, and I really think it's a sports base. If we only mention the creation of athletes that there are as many amateur football players in one Germany as our country has inhabitants. He says that enough for himself. And if we're in that amateur sport, now we're all full of big promises, wishes, etc., but that's not enough. Of course, in that part you need much more and materially and financially covered that area, which is therefore the basis for the development of sports, but of course a significant contribution to the health of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37772	Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37773	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Milinković, yes, you are right, 253 195 kuna is the exact amount foreseen in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 for the promotion of amateur sport. If we know that more than 16,000 associations work in Croatia, then we can easily conclude that these funds are not enough for juice and a sandwich for all our athletes. And we also know that most of the top athletes come from the poor environments where they are engaged in sports where they are not influenced by alcohol or drugs, they are exclusively involved in sports and advocate sports development, but simply parents from these poor environments do not have enough funding to put their children into sport to allow them to go to competitions, various competitions. What about the city budgets, the municipalities? If the small town's budget is, say, a failed financial 20 million kuna, it stands out 3 to 5% of its budget for all sports associations. These funds are not really enough at all, and that is exactly what if sport is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, then I believe that this same Republic of Croatia should also allocate significantly larger financial resources for this particular sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37774	And Ivica Mandic has a replica of Zoran Vinkovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37775	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, Deputy. Dear colleague, I don't know how you got a mistake in your presentation where you pointed out in the final against the dream theme that Vrankovic knocked on. It was Franjo Arabovic 24:22, so here's just so one of the viewers doesn't take the wrong information. What I would certainly say about your consent, that I agree with the proposal of this law which should in one moral way compensate for the compensation and for the achievement of that result. What I would certainly like to appeal to the making of the Sport Law that the way of organisation by sports alliances, by clubs is not good, that there should be more to the sport in primary schools, secondary schools, colleges because units of local self-government through national alliances are almost forced to have 5, 6, 7 or 8 categories of athletes who significantly collect. I believe that in terms of both the quality of the coach and the quality of access and the conditions, it should certainly return to school sport more significantly. That time we have coaches and the right approach. And how the city of Djakovo refers to sports is both the results and the budget cuts. Therefore, this part of your discussions that you are saying that sports associations should have a privileged position in terms of electricity, water, gas costs, in any case, it would also be a proposal for law and the Ministry of Education and Sports certainly account for these associations being of national importance and then, if we want to help them, at least with a competitive price of energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37776	Thank you. Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37777	Well, it was a lapus, so maybe that's what I said to lift my replica. Yeah, it was an Arabovic anyway. But here I will return to me for what is more important at this point, that is right, I would say that this law, but all the laws should be harmonised and the opportunities to say so in the Republic of Croatia, but that this ministry should start with the creation of that foundation. For example, I did a little checking on VAT by professional sports clubs, so Mr. Minister, for example, Dinamo football club, paid the VAT as the entire first and second Croatian football league together. Now, I'm not going to go into the wetland drying either, I don't know what, but obviously some things aren't complicated here and it's not just Dinamo or Hajduk that's the only problem. But obviously, we must, therefore, make one truly fundamental sport law that will start from the construction of the entire municipal infrastructure. We are aware of the situation in the Republic of Croatia and economic power, but here I am in '89. The year by chance, although not playing the case because I had a grandmother in Germany who worked for 30 years went to a small town near Stuart Sindelfingen and fell unconscious from closed pools, from athletic playground, football court, hall for all kinds of sports. It's Mercedes headquarters over there, but it was similar in the vicinity to tell those small towns or villages. So we have to come up with really one real law that will practically finance both amateur sports and construction of municipal infrastructure in one part of the state budget so that we don't get this kind of time of choice to come. in certain environments, and we promise nothing. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37778	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37779	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Scansi, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this presentation, I would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support this proposal to amend the Law on Sports, although I must point out and stress that it does not solve nearly all the problems that today burden sports and athletes in Nice Ours. Here I must remind myself of the fact that the current Government of the Republic of Croatia did not bring about the permanent fees passed by by the Government and that we adopted here in the Parliament, which it had to bring to bear in those regulations within three months materially damaged all those responsible athletes who had the legal right to the stated compensation and no justification for the change to the then adopted Sport Act. I will use this exhibition and point out the importance and importance of sport, but as I have announced in the opening and announced all the biggest problems that today burden sports and athletes, clubs and national alliances in the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry that sports today have no place in society and a country that deserves its significance. The importance of sports is enormous whether it is because of the nation's pride, because of the great many successes and the results of the most successful athletes, because of young and children whose sport is one of the few oasis in today's growing up where young time is mostly spent in front of a computer or in cafes, on the street left with various forms of social negativity from alcohol to narcotics. It is an immeasurable role of sport in the health of the general population, promotions in tourism, importance in the economy, representation in the media. So, the first key assumption for starting to solve the problem in sport and the basis of the successful functioning of sport is the system of financing sports, i.e. balanced income, expenses of sports associations, clubs and individuals in Croatia. We are witnessing that, contrary to the state of sport financing in countries surrounding the Croatian Olympic Committee's budget, it is unfortunately necessary to increase the income in the near future so that the Croatian Olympic Committee can participate in the overall needs of each national alliance as much as possible. At this point, the financing of national alliances by the Croatian Olympic Committee is only covered in a small part. As many as 60% to 70% of these alliances' incomes are left to individuals who run alliances, which of course does not guarantee nor guarantee financial or organisational stability, and thus neither does the continuity of results and success. Of course, the financial stability of the alliance ensures both successful work and progress for its members whether it is clubs or individuals. We are also witnessing that today, unlike today, it fails to make up for its sponsors and donations, and that it is very difficult to expect that the system will be able to function in the future. Even the superficial comparison with our eastern or western neighbours will show how much we are lagging behind at all levels and how many Croatian athletes are largely the result of huge love, talent, improvisation, desire, and, unfortunately, too few systems and organizations. We hope that, in the near future, sport will still get a more appropriate position and thus the possibility of a more high-quality functioning. I would personally add an opportunity to survive given the truly dramatic state of affairs both in national alliances and even more in sports clubs as my colleagues have spoken before me. It is not enough that all of us together are proud of the successes of our individuals or national selections in major competitions as they perform under the national flag and while these successes around the world are being answered by the Croatian anthem. It is our obligation to provide conditions for our young people to achieve the same in the future, and we hope for better results. And in the end, I have to conclude that unfortunately, in the system for the past 20 years, he's been developing a verse. It is necessary to draw up a national strategy and sports development programme as soon as possible. The law on sports predicts that, but all deadlines are exceeded. The strategy and programme will only give solution to systemic problems in sport and at the same time be the need to report projects from European funds. Mr. Minister, in the Law on Sports, Article 47 states that there cannot be members of the body of the same sport in the Assembly and executive board of the National Sports Union. I don't think that's good and that until the second reading should change that, because who's going to be in the congregations, the executive boards, but the people who run the sports clubs at the lower levels. I say once again that HDZ will support these changes, however, it is not good that already the president of the Croatian government said in a statement that already counts the blood cells of those, or the wallet of those athletes who will accept this and those who will not. So he says, I quote, "There are also those who are rich, and in their civic consciousness, conscience that these are used or not." I don't think that's good because this is already causing, as soon as this starts using which of the athletes will take this and who won't. Dealing with sports is also the right of every man, it is the duty of the state to ensure this need and the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37780	Thank you. The replica has a Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37781	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your colleague Kulusic spoke about the system of financing in sport, so here's how the minister's back might be able to tell us something about it. That's what I've been saying before, and I'm sorry that these changes to the Sports Act don't work out. Therefore, since 1 July and Croatia's entry into the EU, public money will no longer be allowed to finance professional sport and some legislative changes should be made to the resolution ministry. So the question of sports financing is at all, so amateur sports, professional sports. And also, since the inspection was set up, the inspectors received IDs and signs that everything was beautifully transmitted in our media as well. Perhaps we could hear if there are any first results when the minister is already here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37782	Okay, this was a question, not a replica. Replication response, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37783	My colleague Glavak agrees with you that funding is the basic problem of Croatian sport, but as I said in the discussion Strategy and the development program of sport should solve it all, I will say again, in such a way as to be able to apply from EU funds to get some money, not for the wages of athletes, but for solving the facilities and all that is necessary for the development of sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37784	And Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37785	Well, here's an esteemed colleague, Ante, right now, although I personally believe that athletes are primarily for the sake of their sports heart if they have financial opportunities and I believe that one large majority of them who have been engaged in such an "attractive" sport during their professional career could, in any case, earn more than an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and even the Prime Minister, Minister or my parliamentary representatives, certainly will not enter into the exercise of this right but will continue, I believe, remain in this function of sport development. But I think it's working right now, and I'd say one morale to say so even though here's the dilemma about this property censorship in person, I think it should still be contained in this law. I also believe that, in this law, if we all want to put our hands on the heart, it should stand out that this athlete had this permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia and that, in accordance with all those positive regulations, he had his obligations to the Republic of Croatia. So it doesn't happen to us that regardless of the merits because we have to say that all these athletes who were also promoters of the Republic of Croatia and received the award for a certain medal and that this is practically their function. I might open up another question here, and many athletes also have their families, many athletes have died and families have remained unprotected, and I believe that this right should end up in one family pension, normally according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37786	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37787	Well, fellow Vinkovic, we all agree more or less here in 90% of cases normally that here should be extended to other sports that are not Olympic sports, but it is difficult, there are athletes who have earned huge money and who unfortunately are digging through the cans today because they unfortunately gambled that money. But calling someone, passing the law and saying that you have the right to do it, and then later on in the announcement, say now if they're moral or immoral, they will or won't. That's not good because from this point on... Well, then there's an asset censorship to be introduced, so there won't be a calling. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because now we can say that someone invested 40 years in the pension system, he has a lot of money, and maybe he shouldn't take a pension at the end because he has a lot of money unlike. So it's all very difficult, but I agree that if we brought the property censorship that it was then no one would call anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37788	The word was requested by Minister Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37789	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I thank all the club representatives for the ongoing debate and the proposals. All a few sentences. It has been said several times that we do not have any other key documents to be passed under the Sport Act. We really don't have them, but we do, and all the deadlines have passed for bringing these documents, they should have been brought long before my ministry took over this portfolio. But that's irrelevant now. So, we're doing those papers. Today we have one topic that I really don't want to raise negative tensions, I want all of us from this House to send a message to our top athletes that what we are proposing today is really a reward for their excellence award for their promotion of Croatia because not one politician, so I can say almost any Croatian citizen like these top athletes did not contribute to Croatia being recognizable in the world. And there are no censorships out of the question that is the contribution of those people who are immeasurable and we in this House all want to tell them we are grateful to them for that, we want you to remain in sport and, with your experience, help with your knowledge to get as many young people involved in sports as possible. And the task of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports I said, I said at the beginning of the introduction, some were not there, is to expand the base so we gave our activities a promotion precisely in the field of school sports, student sports, increased the release from the budget for the Croatian School Sports Union, for the Croatian Academy Sports Federation. I told you that we have done a great study, a study which is the basis of everything, everyone who wants to not take up your time now, because today it is not a topic, the study is called Funding Sports in the Republic of Croatia with a parallel display of funding in the European Union, Mrs Glavak, on the website is so you can find it on the web, everything writes inside how the funds are allocated, how much they stand out. I'll repeat 2.5 billion kuna, you can't say it's small money, 2.5 billion kuna in Croatia stands out from the least municipality to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for sport. And most of that money should go to unprofessional sports. One of the basic requirements of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is investment in amateur sport, investing in recreational sport, and professional clubs have professional administrations that have to respect financial fair play, which means that they are coming in and spending as much as they have come in. My special advisor, which is my special honor, is Mr. Ratko Rudic, who, along with Petro Skansi, is doing a full analysis and preparing a complete solution that will be the national sport programme that Mr. Kulusic was talking about, which was supposed to bring in the former government, but did not bring in. But I'm saying, it doesn't matter now. This national sport programme with a strategy for sport development will also be the basis for withdrawing funds from European funds where we have already established contacts and discussed. Soon we are going to visit the Minister of Sports in Slovenia, we are invited to the Minister of Sport in Spain and France to find the best and best solutions we will apply in Croatia based on their experiences. I am convinced that by voting this law we will indeed send a great message to our athletes with whom I have spoken countless times recently, to them this monetary amount is not important, it is important to them that in this way they give recognition for everything they have done for Croatia and I think they deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37790	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37791	I absolutely agree that these athletes really earned with everything they brought to Croatia, with that joy, joy and I would say even losing my nerve for those who love sports, he lost a thousand times and nerves. But there's another way, so there are different kinds of sports, not all sports are equal, they don't have the same number of viewers, they're not media-accompanied. I'm glad there's paralympics. From the other party, therefore, these athletes are not really important money, but Croatia should give recognition. But precisely because of the diversity, I think one and the other athletes need to introduce that property censorship. We don't have to be the 60% that we've had so far. And the other thing I want to mention is if someone really celebrated Croatia and didn't live in Croatia, paid taxes somewhere else, I think it's a little bit, one completely different question that might not even enter this law, but I agree that they need to be recognized. Mr. Minister of 2.5 billion kunas invested in sports, how many billions of kunas come from local self-government, regional self-government, and how much comes from the level of the state budget, not to interfere now with the construction of schools, those school halls that are financed from certain other sources of funds? But out of that 2.5 billion a year, as far as it's coming from the local self-government that I believe you know and how the situation is after this so-called. decentralisation, more and more incomes are falling, and it is harder and harder to finance sports regardless of good will.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37792	The Sun Head replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37793	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, no one is questioning the need for compensation. You'll remember last year you just asked me why fees weren't introduced into the law when we were changing the law. So no one's questioning it. And we talked about it that way. Of course, we've been constructively discussing whether it's fair if you want a sports dictionary or not, that some athletes are exempt from it. It's explained, there's a line to be drawn somewhere. All right, we can agree that way. But the second thing you warn about, when we talk about funding, I believe that you are aware of the fact that in units of local self-government, in counties and cities, the first thing they fuck is constantly because there is no money, it's sport and culture. And we can't get away from it, Mr. Minister, and you don't have to teach us that, we know that very well because we're with these people every day. So, we need to find all together ways to solve the non-financing of only top athletes, but those of whom we want these top athletes to become, those kids who are educated in the sports system, those kids we want to have again athletes who will proudly spread our name to the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37794	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37795	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, when you mentioned that the most investment should go and go to school sport, and investment in amateur sports, I liked it very much if I didn't know what was going on in nature, if we didn't have an audit that allegedly came through your ministry, according to your instructions, and who now wants to charge even more to amateur clubs some contracts, taxes and what else, if amateur sports weren't to pay one 50 thousand taxes to the state annually instead of the state to make money when something would start happening in schools, when school sports would start to be implemented, when basic schools in lower classes would introduce a little more physical education of sport development. Then I might say, I agree completely with you. I'll agree with you at the moment when what you're just saying about amateur sports becomes a reality. But the fact is that the laws force amateur sports to fail and that after another year in principle there will be no amateur sport because the persecution of volunteers, amateurs, people who love sports, who work with children, is being prosecuted legally that I don't know what they have to do. People just give up, I don't care. I don't want to do it anymore. I just won't have a problem with someone else doing it. We haven't solved the system to have people working in sports. Let's say one example from the Cross. In the community of sports associations we hired three coaches of school leaders in both football and handball and athletics. Today's review is haunting us why we have employees in sports, why the city pays these people because they shouldn't be like that. So we've got a situation to stop funding, we're gonna fire these people, and we're gonna say no, we're going to review the sun, the state won't let us. We'll stop doing amateur sports. That's what's happening to you in the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37796	Thank you. Ante Kulusic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37797	Mr. Minister, none of our athletes will have anything to do with what we say the strategy was supposed to be brought before or what we're going to say now or what I said in the statement that athletes are damaged by the fact that the government didn't bring in a regulation by which these athletes would already receive compensation. However, the fact is that the strategy and the programme will be the only solution to the systemic problems in sport because after this strategy and the programme, we will be able to and will finance our demands and our projects from EU funds. However, I ask you, in response to the replicas now, to say something about Article 47 which says, "that in the Assembly in the report committee of the National Sports Union, they cannot be members of the body of the same alliance." I don't think that's good, and I think it would be good for all the people who do sports in Croatia to change between these two readings, Article 47. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37798	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37799	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Assistant. Well, here's when the Minister of Science, Education and Sports comes to the Parliament, you could always say a live debate. Obviously there are tensions because in the past year and a half there have been both laws and solutions in principle take or leave, which leave a deep sense of either division or injustice, and of course it also to this House and challenges and interest. I'll start my presentation with one sentence read. One intellectual of the left orientation, I think the member and the SDP are for the minister, describing him as saying, "The less he knows about some area, the more he does his will." I think simply this one, looking at the past year and a half of the work of this Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, can be seen in some way in every area. Here yesterday we discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and immediately division and within let's say the ruling coalition. Clearer views on the side of the opposition, the dissatisfaction of the academic community, which, I must say, has the power to even resist some solutions that come from these ministries unlike many from a system of primary, secondary education which unfortunately do not have. Well, then here we have in the past year and a half in the field of education that famous millennium venture to introduce health education into primary school. It's a strange way to leave a division between citizens after the introduction, one for, the other against. Then that's what we've been talking about for months. Everyone contests the fourth module more or less and what we have. Instead of respecting some order in making such important decisions that change I am on the subject alone. [[Intruder Zgrebec:College Boric, on topic cross over.]] We then have a way of making such a decision, so in that case we first had a decision, so the content was sought and people were eventually sought out instead of solving the content first, educateing people and making decisions. [[Intruder Zgrebec:We are discussing the Sport Act.]] We also had preschool education here, but the law was lost somewhere, the minister remained or gave up preschool education so that it could not be introduced by his then famously announced nine-year primary education and preschool became mandatory for everyone. I say come to sports too, here we are now at sports because it's part of that ministry and I'm really saying Minister today it's an activity of state interest. And indeed, in the past 20 years, as someone said today, there has been a lot of joy, some disappointment. But we can't help but admit that we've become recognizable in the world just by athletes in individual sports, in team sports, clubs, national teams, and that it's somehow made us recognizable in the world. Who wouldn't remember from the time of the war Goran Ivanisevic, who in '91 in Wimbledon puts a ribbon with a Croatian coat of arms, with a tricolour on his forehead, seeks to stop aggression and help the international community or today mentioned Olympic Games in Barcelona. These are really the times when the creation of a young country with the help of sport, athletes carried out one large part. The only thing that we remember for the past year and a half when we talk about the field of sport where the minister is in charge, we remember from sports as a positive event where it's reunited, let's say where a national or national charge gathered, where it wanted to win was recently the Croatian-representation of Serbia 2:0 in Maksimir, where in some way it showed what it can and how sport can unite all. Of course, athletes can and know what we got when we say about sports in the past year and a half. The minister entered the mandate I remember that interview from the 1st month with the message "Together with Minister Bauk, I will dry the swamp in the Croatian Football Federation" and then stated that then the current Sport Act will be implemented so that the implementation of the provisions of this law can exclude people who are under investigation or those who are in some conflict of interest. It's been a year and a half, and I don't know if she stayed, whether she wasn't there or if the minister just didn't know how she was gonna handle it. In the 3rd month of this year, after many announcements of sports inspections, sports inspectors were conducted by the Law on Sports Inspectors or Sports Inspectors, as already called, the contest. The tender was reported by a lack of candidates, however, after some time when the solutions issued were annulled because the minister was able to determine in the meantime that he should not have been the assistant minister of the respected Mr Skansi and of that sports inspection, obviously, I do not know what happened in the meantime. As we passed the law, we warned of the possibility that this sport inspection, regardless of good intentions, would not have the authority to solve many issues within the sport. And these days again sport, school i.e. a question of judo at school. I'd like the minister to tell me how he imagines it. We hear it will be an electoral object, that children will deal with it as a habit that will be acquired as a sports habit, development of skills, etc. I ask if we have the terms, the money, who's going to do it? We come from small environments where we don't have such conditions, I don't know where we're going to do it. And now at the end of these few articles of these laws. This law really offers the possibility of some kind of monthly, let's call them monthly fees from the budget to help top athletes amount to 14 million kuna. We heard 2.5 billion here today, so why can't we find another 14 or 20 million kuna in those 2.5 billion and make a fair law? in terms of justice, I'm talking about part of the fact that some top athletes have lost their ability to be covered by this law just because they're engaged in false sports by our Ministry of Education and Sports. So you today, if you're dealing with, say, archery, badminton, triathlon, riding, skeletone, trampoline, modern Friday or cyclist on a runway that we don't have, but if you're dealing with barging, bowling, chess or karate, then you can't count on that fee because there's the intensity that only top athletes of Olympic sports can be found in this form of law. This leaves the taste of injustice, and the laws must not be so. And that's why some athletes just out of these sports rightly protested because if the question is what you said honor, then let's reward everyone or some reward or help top athletes, then let's reward everyone. But if it's a matter of money then let's think about what we're doing because here I asked here today, so I didn't get an answer, whether these 38 medals of bronze medals include Croatia's team from the '98 World Cup, Ladic, Štimac, Bilić, Asanović, Prosinečki, Schuker, Boban etc. Why does one Pearl Pervan triple world bowling champion not have the right to find himself in this form of law or Dinko Bejakovic the first man to win the world for the new state of Croatia? For what? These are the criteria we can dispute, and we always have to take or leave. Of course, what am I supposed to say at this point, that I won't. Well, we'll take that for a reason, reward some, but let's not leave the taste of injustice because we can't either find the money or bring it to luck who it will be or who won't be an Olympic sport. Over the past 100 years, Olympic sports have fallen out, some have come back as tennis. Many say that Olympic sports will change again, but we cannot ignore especially us on the coast, on the islands, the fact that in every village you have a cistern that you have people who bottle up and that it's less important to us than any sportsman or athlete who deals with triathlon,... or cycling on a runway that we don't have. I think that's where that part of the injustice lies. Here I think I'm done, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37800	Thank you very much. A colleague, Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37801	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. As news has surfaced that the Government will extend the application of the Minimum Salary Act and that the minimum wage increase will be delayed until 1 June on behalf of the Croatian Labour-Stranke Labour Party, I request that the Labour and Social Care Minister Miranda Mrsic address the Parliament and ask for a break of 10 minutes for consultation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37802	A fellow Shuker, but we'll do the replicas first and then we'll give it a break. And Minister Mrsic will come because he has agenda points, so we'll let him know. Gold Comadin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37803	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So my replica refers to that part of the exhibition of respected fellow Boric, which refers to a retrospective representation of the work of fellow Jovanovic and the ministry, which is at the head of the principle of what he should have done and what he did and should not have done, if I understood your discussion well. So I can tell my colleague Jovanovic first for years and it's about an extremely educated and valuable man who opened a lot of taboo topics that many people don't like. So what you emphasized in your discussion as well as some other colleagues and even our colleagues as you said in terms of intellectual debates. For example. You can read about it these days, right? But because of these discussions, you see, we don't throw colleagues out of the party like you do. Your former president and our former prime minister, is it for a verbal delinquent? Thus, intellectuals are there and invited to discuss and question and have different opinions. The truth would be good if sometimes they agreed and that would be good, and that would be good. And as far as this part of your discussion about a small part of this law is concerned, I just want to say that as far as I understand this part of the law, we must not allow Croatia as citizens of Croatia to have our well-deserved athletes and some of them, to remain without any income after they have committed Croatia and often, in fact, have disabled their own existence because they have engaged in top and professional sports and it takes time, simply, some things in life can no longer reach and make up for it. Otherwise I agree with that part that it should be other sports and not just Olympic. And it's especially good that part on its own request. So, all those discussions of yours are off, I doubt anyone who has tens of thousands of euros in monthly incomes is going to ask for these 5,000 kunas, and I guess his morals won't allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37804	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37805	Dear colleague Komadin, I quoted one gentleman who said it, it wasn't Mr. Flego, but another gentleman, I'm not going to mention him, because then based on what results we have in the Ministry of Science. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe I don't see it that way, but the facts are different. As for throwing out who will, it will show time both in your party and in another party, which will be, which won't, I won't comment too much, but in the end here I'll read the article yesterday, just the introduction of Mr. Iron Flege's interview. This was written by a journalist, not said Mr. Flego, Mr. Jovanovic will probably not in gold letters be recorded in the history of Croatian science, education and sports because he has revolutionised this portfolio but will certainly remain remembered as the minister who has constantly caused the revolution, because of it, the protest letters, declarations, burning books are being written, the channels are being sought to reach the prime minister and to describe live what damage will occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37806	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37807	Thank you, Vice President. So, in that scarce part of your debate that you devoted to the text of the legislative proposal at the end of the day, you said so yourself, so you were able to say that Croatia became famous in the world, among other things, and much for its athletes and team. Therefore, Olympic winners and in this law it is the winners, therefore the gold, silver and bronze ones have really in charge of Croatia because in the best possible way so in a sport competition with the best representatives of other nations they have contributed to the reputation and visibility of Croatia in the world. So, what needs to be pointed out, the law is about rewards, all such athletes regardless of their assets that they acquired whether in sport or somewhere else, and there really is no room for restrictions on property censorship. So it's about the reward. However, what I am saying is that thanks to athletes for their achievements should not fall solely on the backs of the state and the state budget. So that athletes should also reward local self-government, local environments from which these athletes come and where they eventually return to their activities continue to contribute to the improvement of the local environment in the sense of sport. So in this sense, I want to highlight a positive example of Međimurje County and the town of Čakovec, which are our famous gymnast Philip Ude, on whom Međimurje County and Međimurje are extremely proud. So together these two units of local self-government provided him with an apartment, so they provided him with a solution to one of the most important existential problems, so roof problems over his head. I think that's a very good example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37808	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37809	Mrs. Jelash, I don't think we understand each other very well because this law speaks not only of Olympic medals but of medals with world championships of Olympic sports and Olympic medals. And there's been an injustice for me because we have world champions both in bowling and in bottles and in karate, and these people are not in equal status. That's why I said if they were in the wrong sport in their life. Under this law, they are. And it's not, and it shouldn't be law enforcement that if someone is a top athlete, we reward them with that possibility and the other because he's also the top athlete, the best in the world, there's no one better than him and we don't give it to him because he's not an Olympic sport. So I asked, if the problem is for 14 million kunas how much this costs a year and we're talking about 2.5 billion investment in sports by the state and local self-government, then let's be fair and correct and find the money and then let's cover everything or think about how to let them be equal because this is an injustice, for me it's an injustice. And in doubt take something like here or nothing, so of course it's better to take something even in that wrong, wrong way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37810	And Ivan Shuker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37811	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Assistant Minister. Comrade Boric, is the real criterion of the Olympic medal? I don't think it's, for the simple reason that you have sports that practically exist throughout the world, you have sports that have a quality that exists in just one small part of the world. So let's take our water polo players, they're world champions and European champions, but where water polo plays top-notch, in 7-8 countries. Another thing, our sport that used to be a feather is basketball. Do we have money to play basketball in Croatia today? We don't. And we pay that at the end of the day... representatively. Once upon a time in basketball, the world powers of Italy disappeared completely. Look at Russia. So whether the criterion is just an Olympic medal and in some sports it's impossible to reach the Olympic medals and even to the world or, say, football. On the O.I. in a crib of football in England and London practically or are two or three perspective players from Brazil or somewhere else, you haven't seen any world name. But what is true, that top athletes from Croatia who were once top athletes in the former country, many of them today are unfortunately on the sidelines of society, have nothing to live on. And I'd like to see this law, Mr. Minister, as a man who's long in sports, in this first segment sees as some kind of help to these very people. Maybe these criteria aren't strong enough, maybe that social criterion is something far more important. And then when we start applying that law, we build on it. You know well that players who spend four years in the NBA have as many pensions and as many thousands of dollars depending on what their salary was. You know very well that by amending the Sport Act when we gave the opportunity to reject 30% on that contract and the tax is charged, we said that it can only be done to players that clubs apply to pension and health. Therefore, no matter how you pass this law he will help some, however I say here I speak as a athlete, he will not be unfortunately just.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37812	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37813	Because many players, just another sentence, who played in the former Yugoslavia and were top-notch today, are people of 50 years, unfortunately, especially in women's sport, many are on the edges of society, have nothing to live on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37814	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37815	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, that's why I insisted that we have a clear criterion. We don't have it, however, it's an unfair criterion for me. An Olympic sport that you can't influence either by birth, by your skills, by your abilities, by your results. This determines a group of people who run the International Olympic Committee and they say on team OI it's possible to introduce some kind of sport as a test sport, etc., but it was very rare. And that's why you're in some situation to really wonder if your skills where you're the best in the world are equally important skills for someone who's been lucky to be the same best in the world or the second or third, but they hit the sport. And we create a difference in values between sports, we reward then elitist sports, let's say those who have money, who can, and these other less attractive let's say or are completely unattractive, and we don't, and maybe we don't have to deal with them. It's a message sent with this kind of law. And so I said, it would be best if the minister said that it could be fixed and that money could be found and everyone would be satisfied. They'll be dissatisfied like this. They'll be very dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37816	Now until 12.43, I set a break requested by Croatian Labour and HDZ clubs. (CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12,44 HOURS) colleague Branko Vuksic. [[Home is not saved.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37818	... here in the Croatian Parliament on 22 March this year we voted the Minimum Salary Act, which was the previous one, and then this Kukuriku government kept frozen for three years. [[Specially enabled.]] The minimum wage law entered into force on 11 April and should apply from then on. The law obliges the government to adopt a minimum wage regulation for the current year within 15 days. For those who have forgotten, and have not forgotten workers who receive minimum wage, and their numbers are not even kept statistics. And according to our data, these minimum-access workers are somewhere around 60,000. The minimum salary determined by the old law is already invalid 2814 kuna or 34% of the average salary. By increasing the minimum salary by 170 kuna and 78 lips in gross, the average salary has been raised to 37%. In 2008, the minimum wage was 39% of the average salary. Croatian Labourists have suggested raising the minimum wage to 40% of the average wage with the aim of recommending international labour organisations to raise the minimum wage to 50% of the average wage in the shortest possible period. And what happens after the legislative body adopts a minimum wage law in a legal, legal, binding manner. Date on the scene of the association, the Croatian Employers' Association threatens that a certain minimumer will endanger 50,000 jobs by law. So media pressure on the government that seems to fit employers, not the Parliament, if the news spreads in Croatia is true. It does not endanger the state of business, the business environment, the working atmosphere and the functioning of the system because some employers do not report workers, that part of employers report workers to a minimumer, and the rest of the profits it gives them on their hands or in bonuses, which is a very large violation of the law. Part of the employers force workers to work overtime, work as long as you're ordered or you get fired, but those overtime hours don't pay, or hire a new workforce. The employers' association does not protest against the abuse of workers and the slave treatment of workers by some of their colleagues, but is protesting against a powerful minimumer, protesting against a law that should all be held as a drunk plate especially by the government, which has decided to postpone the application of the law as the wider news is, and therefore we have asked the Minister of Labour and Social Care Mrsic to tell us whether it is true or not, because we are smoking already in cold, that the increase in minimumers will be delayed until 1 June. The government again appears to be in front of the capital that is ruling Croatia, instead of ruling the Croatian Kukuriku coalition. This will stop if it happens to 60,000 families who can't even cover the overheads with that minimal anyway. If this is true what is being said and what has appeared in the media today, then the Association of Employers turns by its pressures into an association of dangerous intentions, and the Government into obedients, an association of dangerous intentions. Is that what we're wondering if this is exactly the social state that the Government of Zoran Milanovic promised us? Is this a European Croatian state that does not respect if it is precisely its own laws. All minimum wage parameters are known and there is no reason not to respect the law and that the next week when the Law expires, when these parameters are to be adopted by the Government at its session does not start to apply on the date of the law's entry into force. Therefore, I ask Minister Mrsic if the Government will respect this law or if another delay in the application of one of the laws that we have passed in the Croatian Parliament will occur. If that is true then the Croatian Parliament is really just a fig leaf. The Croatian Parliament is one theater in which the hands are raised and put down as directors from the other side of St. Marks show, now upstairs, now down. Here, Croatian Labourists are, above all, pleased that Mr. Miranda Mrsic came to our application and he will probably explain our concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37819	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37820	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister. My colleagues and colleagues, I think it's because of a subject like this that simply points to all the inconclusiveness of the government. Because look, if it's true that this balloon that someone released is incorrect, then it still shows extra insecure because these are things that no one can play about I will not. You know well that this minimum wage, whether someone liked it or not, but since I was in a position at one point to negotiate minimum wages, if it doesn't negotiate well with social partners, it can cause trauma, because in 2008, that's exactly what happened. Therefore, when the minimum wage was adopted, the trade unions of leather, footwear, textiles and wood industry requested that the minimum wage should not be applied to their economic branches for the simple reason that they were aware that that amount of minimum wages could not be paid. And therefore, it is likely that such a way of talks and negotiations would have been conducted by the Government would have happened and so on, because at some point in time when people have a choice or you'll be out of work or you'll get 170 or 180 kuna more, then you'll surely decide to stay at work and get a salary of 180 kuna extra. So it's something that's simply a fact and it doesn't need to be run away from, and that's the problem that every government will always face. So on the one hand you have employers protecting their interest, on the other hand you have union representatives protecting the interests of their members. And in principle, when you look and talk about the labour market, it should basically be employers and trade unions that determine minimum wage. But unfortunately, since they couldn't agree, the government appeared as an arbiter. But I repeat, the biggest problem of this government is test balloons. Does anyone from the government, from somewhere else, play some sort of test balloon that will be a public reaction, but usually test balloons are released for some provisions and laws that are quite tangling Croatian citizens. And rest assured, I'd like you to tell Mr. Minister that this regulation or the law will not change, in fact, that it will be applied as it was here. I remember the heated debate that was when you explained that law in the Parliament. Also, the government came before these test balloons on the media because look, not every information from the government has to leak out and place itself. Because if a group of people are working and preparing some law and if that law is in favour of the common good, then it is logical, and if it is a very sensitive point that the Prime Minister or the Resort Minister says it is a place and it is a cabinet session or that a special press conference is called in the government. However, we are witnesses to this and we witnessed 15 days ago that someone said that the property tax from 5% will be reduced to 3%, that the benefits for buying the first apartments for young families will be abolished. That's what someone let out. Well, it wasn't made up by someone from a small finger, it was someone from the ministry who let go of what the reaction would be. Now, look, you're bringing unrest amongst young people over some 300 or 400 thousand kunas of budget revenue. Now the question is who is in the interest of changing the law and the tax rate that neither in this government nor in previous governments has anyone mentioned as a problem. Because that 5% tax on real estate was not mentioned and no one questioned the relief of buying the first apartment of young families. But I'm saying, when someone wants something as soon as it's released to the public, it's a normal thing to cause a disturbance in a group of citizens. Likewise, colleagues and colleagues over 400,000 employees in Croatia are currently not in tax markets. This means that, with that salary they receive with personal deductions, so for one, two or three abstentions, their non-taxable part is below what they receive. And what my colleague Vuksic said, I think we should and that might be good for Mr. Minister if you have that information, and probably if anyone has it, you should have it, to see how many people in Croatia receive minimum wage and what are the economic branches in which this minimum wage is received. Let's parallelize how much these economic branches get incentives from the state budget so they can even exist. And I think it's one topic around which we could very easily reach a consensus in this High House. Because I don't think anyone's in the interest of fighting to protect that minimum of Croatian workers. But let's go. If there's only one more sentence, please. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] Let's analyze that data, let's talk about the arguments. Unfortunately, with this fight over the media, we bring a very exact topic to the levels of politics, and that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37821	And here at the request of the Croatian Labour Club will provide information to Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37822	Dear MPs and parliamentary deputies that the next point is the government's proposed point, and on behalf of the government, I am in the Parliament and will respond to the demands of both clubs. I know it's pre-election times, that now it's used every moment to see in public and let's call ourselves defenses of certain interests. I hope you've read the Minimum Payment Act well, which says the government will make minimum wage after consulting with the social partners. And that the government will adopt a minimum wage regulation. Therefore, this is the procedure applicable to this minimum wage, and it will apply to all other minimum salaries, so 2014, 2015 and 2016. By making it clear in the law that we will bring the minimum wage regulation before the budget, i.e. before the end of the year, to leave the social partners with time to conduct collective bargaining because, as you know in the Minimum Salary Act, we have also put in place an article that speaks of social partners, so that trade unions and employers can sit at the table and negotiate for a slightly lower minimum wage precisely so that these low-income branches can be allowed to sit at the table and agree. You were supposed to wait for the government meeting and then see the explanation. What we have now done and what we should have done under the law, we have sat down with union representatives, we have sat down with representatives of the HUP, so with social partners and agreed on the amount of salary and agreed on the date of application of the salary. Therefore, it is true that the regulation determines that the minimum wage will apply on 1 June, but at the request of the social partners because we have to give a month of adaptation to the entire system to minimum wage. Therefore, it is in line with the social partners both with trade unions and with employers. Therefore, I see no reason for such noise and I see no reason for one now great concern that the minimum wage will not be brought to Croatia. Therefore, we have acted under the law, we have acted according to what the law says and in agreement with the social partners, so both trade unions and employers and where they both sought a time period for adapting to the law, so to adapt to minimum wage. So the minimum wage will be in that amount we said, will be applied 1.6, by 31.5. the minimum wage under the old law applies. Therefore, the matter is fully in line with the union partners, and it will also be in the following regulations, so the regulation that we adopt at some point in the 9th and 10th month will say: the minimum wage of so much and will apply from 1.1. 2014 Therefore, I see no reason to dispute the implementation of the law or that the government itself is changing the law. Again, the law makes it clear that before the regulation is passed, the government must carry out consultations with the social partners, consultations have been carried out, the text of the regulation has been agreed and sent to the government procedure, so I hope that the regulation will be adopted at the next cabinet session, so next week. Minimum salary from June 1st. Again, I note by procedure and in line with the social partners, so with all the centres and representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association. On the other hand, I note again that it was introduced in the law that the social partners in these branches, therefore not only did the respected representative Ivan Schuker speak about the textile industry, about the wood industry and the leather industry, so all branches can sit down, and all businesses, can sit down with their employers, trade unions and employers and agree if this is the need of the factory itself or the branch itself to be 5% lower minimum wage. So we return collective bargaining in full glory and I see no problems in the implementation itself. The minimum wage will be 1 June in the amount in which we agreed, and on the other hand in this month we expect intensive negotiations not only in the leather, textile and wood industry, but also in the construction industry, because the whole system of salaries is related to minimum wage, and then the increase in minimum wages in construction means both increases and other salaries. Therefore, in these months we simply allow the system to be adjusted and we allow the social partners to sit at the table. What will be the outcome depends on how negotiations and talks are done. Therefore, the government has not changed the law, the government is not giving up on minimum wages, we are acting on what is in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37823	Thank you very much. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I assume you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I said there's no replica, since, well, then, if you're not going to be happy again, you're going to be happy with the board. Since this was a break requested by the clubs, and the clubs asked for the Minister of Labour and Pension System to address the information, and in such cases you do not have the right to reply, so when they are exposed, when they seek a break. Here you are, colleague Vinkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37824	Here, thank you, Madam Vice President. Therefore, I can read this Rules of Procedure, Article 225a has been injured, and the one published in the National Journal 223 (a) paragraph 5: "To the presentation of the president or vice president of the club of representatives, and the other representative of the club of representatives, if they are not present, no replica is allowed, so if they are present, a replica is allowed." A replica is also allowed to be presented to the minister. That's what the Rules of Procedure says, and now we can interpret it in our own way or another, but the fact is, that's how we interpret the laws. So this law is published in the National Journal and enters into force on 11 April. And then the minister comes to us and says it's agreed with the social partners, which one? To come into force on June 1st? It's not an appointment, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37825	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37826	That's not agreed. So, as you ask of us...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37827	Thank you. Please sit down with your colleague, Vinkovic, and please address...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37828	I'll sit down, sit down, but just like you're asking us to stick to the Rules of Procedure, you're holding on and don't interpret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37829	And you stick to the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37830	And I will not appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37831	You have to complain or you won't have the right to injure the Rules of Procedure until the end of this session. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We are continuing the debate, colleague Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37832	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable Ministers and Ministers for leaving, Assistant Minister, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. During April and May 2011 a research was carried out called Contribution to the quality of life of athletes with disabilities conducted by the Association of Persons with Disabilities of Zagreb and the Faculty of Kinesiology Zagreb with the aim of examining the quality of life of athletes with disabilities. More specifically, the contribution of quality of life sports, general life satisfaction, and the consequences of physical damage or disability, including 113 athletes with disabilities from the entire Republic of Croatia, including 28 athletes and 85 athletes, has been analysed. Of those participants, 85 persons are involved in sports and 28 are recreationally involved. The results have shown that sport contributes to the greater quality of life of athletes with disabilities through the facilitated performance of daily obligations, better communication with other people to reduce feelings of loneliness, strengthens the feeling of happiness, physical and mental status, and builds a higher level of satisfaction with its own life, in other words regardless of age and sex, and the time and level of treatment of athletes with disabilities through active sports experience recognises the importance and usefulness of sport and its contribution to improving, communicative and social that are important factors in achieving good and desirable relationships and through which the feeling of loneliness is almost lost and also a stronger sense of equality. In the environment of people like themselves and people with understanding, athletes with disabilities forget discrimination and common forces, although they are still at a very slow pace breaking prejudices about people with disabilities as helpless and even less useless. 14 Paralympic Games, a sports competition for disabled people, took place in London last year. In 20 sports, 502 competitions were held. Croatian representatives won record five medals, 4 in athletics and one in swimming. Silver was won by Darko King in ball-throwing and Zoran Talic in a leap further in the same discipline Mikela Ristoski took the bronze while Branimir Budetic won third place in the spear-throwing. Mihovil Spain, however, swam to the bronze 100 metres to the back, which is his fourth Paralympic medal in his career. A sportsman who has achieved 26 European, world and paralympic medals in his career and set as many as 16 world records in London has officially forgiven swimming. That's what he said. "This is just one great example of how much paralympicism as a movement has taken hold. How much more, of course, space is ahead so that our successes can be shown more concretely in Croatian media as well. We should be given much more space to show what we deserve and what results we have." In her 2011 report, the parallel and Ombudsman stressed that the role of sport in people with disabilities is significantly higher than those without disabilities because, apart from reducing the stigma and discrimination over disability, it allows such persons to recognise their abilities and potentials. So she recommended to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to provide funds to support athletes and athletes with disabilities. Today's draft law amending the law in sport improves the award of a permanent fee for sports pensions to Croatian athletes who, in the Olympic and Paralympic Games of the Deaf, won the medal and thus indemnified the Republic of Croatia primarily by abolishing property censors, by changing the age limit for the exercise of rights and redefining competitions for which permanent cash compensation is granted, thus giving recognition to athletes who have contributed to their exceptional achievements to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. Although a major shift has been made in involving people with disabilities in sports activities at all levels of society in recent years, they still face major problems on a daily basis and are overcoming many obstacles both physically and socially. Sports activities of people with disabilities should be constantly improved and further developed. Quality and adequate training of appropriate staff is necessary, promotion of sports-related associations, ensuring adequate conditions for the implementation of sport activities, and in particular it is important to provide more information to the general public on the importance of sports for people with disabilities. And that is why I hope that my debate today also contributes to raising awareness of sports as an important factor in the lives of people with disabilities. With the support of the bill, let us take advantage of this debate today and send a clear message of awareness of the influence of sports and of the feeling of coherence and of the internal orientation of disabled persons. Sports can make a world where a disabled person lives more comprehensible, more comprehensible and meaningful. It can encourage more developed friendships and at the same time alleviate daily mistrust and social isolation. Paralympic fees can certainly contribute to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37833	Thank you. It's time for my colleague, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37834	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Scansi, Mr. Assistant. I agree with the Minister's opening statements when he said it was a sport but of course then in any case athletes and all sportsmen are among those who are of particular national interest, I would say social interest. Sport and this is also said in the debate so far is perhaps one of the best ways to spread sport or the availability of sport to young people and children is one of the best ways to prevent violence, violence among young people but certainly the fight against drugs or the fight against addiction. This is a good intention that is embedded in these amendments and additions to the law but as we have seen from the debate so far often good intentions actually produce many dissatisfactions. That's how I'm afraid to happen with this bill. Yeah, that's a little absurd, but that's right. So there are a lot of suggestions so that we can further expand those rights, to which we can further expand everything. When we close the circle to frequent findings, let's say with the debate on the state budget or the rebalancing we're all in favour of reducing deficits and we're all in favour of reducing expenditure, but few who would give up anything especially in the political arena, we're all ready to propose new and new categories of those who should receive taxpayers' money. 14 and almost 15 million kunas, respectively, are not little a year. And I will, of course, join those who are thinking about who might be unjustly denied by such a proposal. I mention that paralympics mean medal winners at the World Paralympics Championships, so they're not supposed to be here, world championships, but I certainly think we should think about it. But my idea of how to reduce resources and make this distribution as fair as possible is now going according to the criteria you've proposed. So I certainly think that reducing the age limit means from 55 to 45 is not good. So what we must do as a society, as a state and support athletes while they are young, while winning medals and passing on the glory of the Croatian world do everything to school or when they stop their careers to allow the state to school to one day get busy and live from their work. Namely, these fees are now renamed state recognitions that are actually for the rest of their lives, so they're lifelong recognitions of 45 years. I remind you that state recognitions, medal winners get it is, of course, the government's decision by this government and they get it very well after winning medals. So these are not Croatian opportunities for opportunities where we live, these are not small amounts, they are certainly deserved by medal winners at the Olympic Games or the Paralympic Games and World Cups, however, this is ultimately big money for the state budget. So I stand up for an increase in age, but also for the return of property censorship. Property censorship is an extremely important criterion in determining those who will make this possible fee, recognition whatever we call it, and I hear that most often it's called what's wrong with some kind of pension that the state grants to well-deserved athletes, but it can't possibly be, it's going to be the language of many when they talk about these fees. Someone who is 45 or 46 cannot be supported by the state in such a way that it is considered a pension. So property censorship I think would be one important criterion. It's not the same family the athletes live in. After their sports careers ended, how much money they made, where they deposited that money, whether they paid taxes, etc. However, my biggest remark when it comes to criteria, which I also said to the Committee on the Family is relevant and it's amazing to me that so far as I've listened to, and I've listened carefully to the debate, no one has pointed out who's been saying that I'm going to quote "the criterion that some athlete can get this fee is that he's not legally convicted of a criminal offence for which the sentence has been prescribed for 5 years", therefore convicted of a criminal offence for which the sentence has been prescribed for 5 years. I've looked at the possible crimes. Look, sexual abuse of a child, a suspended sentence just like the one we're talking about. Could a top athlete be the most famous of all, that he won a billion medals if he's convicted of committing sexual abuse of a child can't get any recognition from a state, no. He should be hung by his legs, not given a confession. The sentence of imprisonment of five years is determined according to the new CAP, or the Penal Code for Severe Physical Injury, for Tax and Customs evasion, for theft, for fraud, for narcissism, etc. Mr. Minister said in the opening letter that it is considered that the sentence imposed as a final verdict is therefore intended by the ministry to hear probably our remarks on the board, that the sentence is reduced or imposed by 2 years if I understand it correctly. I wouldn't be into it. So someone who needs to be supported by the state and taxpayers can't be punished by a prison sentence, so it can't be given a powerful verdict for any and any criminal act where the sentence is a prison one day, two days, one year, two years or five years, so that's my suggestion because the one we additionally reward, we stimulate, we give him as a state of recognition must in any case be impeccable, therefore as a athlete, as a person, as a human but certainly as a citizen who respects Croatian laws, which respects the Croatian Constitution, and I think that this must be one of the basic criteria. So, Mr. Minister, I suggest you delete this criterion for those who can receive compensation if they are convicted of any crime, so delete it. Any athlete convicted of a criminal offence by any prison sentence or any other sentence that a court of law will not be able to win the support of the state. So the idea is good, the intention is good, but I think this amendment and the addition of the law should be completed. Of course, it's good to go in two readings. We'll have time. And once again, I ask you to think about this memo, you probably got it, too, from the Croatian Paralympics Committee on opportunities if we have criteria for athletes who are not athletes with disabilities, medals at the Olympic Games and world championships to be a criterion for athletes with disabilities. The medals are equally valuable at world championships and at Paralympic Games and at Olympic Games for both athletes. And just another small note because there were suggestions that, this way is a business more remark that until the second reading changes and some other provisions of the Sport Act. I warn that this is impossible because only what is proposed in the Amendments and Supplements of this Law, i.e. in these amendments and additions to the laws that we are talking about, can be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37835	Thank you very much. Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37836	Right away, dear colleagues, at the beginning, we'll stick to these gender equalitys and not hang them by their feet. Because it's clearly directed exclusively to male gender, is it, therefore, that we're talking about a athlete who can or can't be God as a athlete? But I say since here is that there is a law on gender equality then that we all have that in mind. Especially here I have had several replicas by a more beautiful and equal sex in the Republic of Croatia. But I want to point out, and I agree with you that it's really good that this law goes into another reading and that instead of saying these confessions, there are state recognitions that we can give to worthy athletes. There's a word here first of all, and we can call it the real name of a sports pension. I also said on behalf of the Club that we advocated this property censorship, that we advocate that all those who had their place of residence in Croatia, who paid taxes here, who lived life as well as all the average citizens of the Republic of Croatia, can do so here. Not those who had a registered residence in Monaco, Virgin Islands, etc. Here's the law I repeat, here's a request from the Retirement Club to calm down a little bit. But also, here I repeat the question of the coach who is particularly in team sports highlighted, many have not even received medals, they were menus but I think they also participated in the creation of either gold or silver or bronze in certain different competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37837	Thank you. Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37838	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, yes, I accept your objection, I've spoken clearly of men, and I accept that this applies to women when we talk about sexual abuse of a child. But I invite you, Mr. Representative, try to remember five examples of sexual abuse of a child who was committed by women who were convicted of it, so we can discuss it a little bit later. So, I'm talking about experience, practice, real life. As for the coaches, and the coaches get, so the athletes who won the Olympic medals, or at world championships get a reward, or they get a reward from the state, is, after they win it, here's the minister here, yeah, they get it. So they recognize absolutely their work. And in the end, you spoke to me as a more beautiful sex. It's the same discrimination. Yes, it is. [[Intruder: No.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37839	We're continuing the debate. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37840	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. So here we see that most of us are representatives and that there is a great interest in this topic because of course it is a sport of great social importance and, on the other hand, sport is an area where great problems are visible that were even more visible before the start of the resolution of them, i.e. the introduction of the structure which actually this ministry began. So we also know from the problem of tax evasion or what one colleague said, removing money in cash oasis, that's certainly a problem that weighs sport but of course I believe in starting to correct such a problem. And that's why I have to say in the beginning that I'm going to support these changes and additions. I've listened to all the predecessors, of course, and I can't say that I don't agree with almost everyone, but I feel like it's only been seen from one particular angle, or that it wasn't the goal that it is, and it's the reward for excellence because it's exactly the tendency of this law. It's actually an incentive to the best. In this way, she wanted to thank but also to commit what is very important because she commits herself that they are returning to the system to continue to be good teachers, not just examples of being excellent but being further teachers of new generations. When we talk about sports, then no matter what the subject, if it's just a topic of sport, and it has to be pointed out exactly that part of the prevention of the violent and socially unacceptable behavior of young people, then the very important fact that adopting healthy life habits in childhood is that it is the best prevention for all diseases, especially cardiovascular diseases. And when we know that it's also the data that 30% of the deaths caused by coronary diseases are precisely caused by inactivity, physical inactivity. Then it's type 2 diabetes that develops a little bit. On the other hand, it is such a type of disease that it can be positively affected by physical activity. Training, i.e. sport positively affects the psychological status of man, development of personality etc., etc. In addition, work habits from self - discipline are acquired, and socialization is facilitated by children. In the opening part, the minister said athletes like this are excellent, that they are Croatia's best ambassadors, i.e. they are a role model for young people. It reminded me of the atmosphere that was on Stradun when we reached the Olympics, when we reached our golden boys who sang my homeland, kiss the land you walk on. And when you hear those guys saying that they actually paid off the hard work that they had, which they talked about today's predecessors about, then we can say that we really need to thank them, and that's why I stress that this is a reward for excellence. Why do I mention Dubrovnik, precisely because it is a city from which most of the Olympics come, or most of the water sports, or water polo. Here today, I'm glad my colleague mentioned our Michael to Spain as a paralympic. I must also point out here that as the city of Dubrovnik treats athletes, which is to co-finance this activity, funds are allocated to top clubs as well as young perspective competitors. Also, the city of Dubrovnik supports one project that starts from kindergarten, which is to choose a sport, that is how we actually start with young generations, that we are actually teaching them to achieve these results tomorrow. Therefore, the aim of this law is to compensate for sports successes and it really needs to be seen as recognition and support for the conduct of life-long activities, activities in sport. Today we heard, most of the colleagues were actually talking about discrimination. I would actually say that the olympic movement is one thing in the world, and that's a big difference, and that's why I'm saying that we have to accept that olympics is something else. It is also known that it is very common at European championships that it is harder to get one result and harder to achieve that gold, but I repeat, Olympicism is a movement. Such an open question is left, the issue of property censorship mentioned today and the morality of whether a man can take a lot, whether he can take advantage of this opportunity the law provides, but it would leave it to morality. I am left with only a questionable year, or age, when it begins with this possibility and the amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37841	Thank you. Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37842	Here's my dear colleague, it's been really nice listening to you in one of these things at all, you've promoted this law multidisciplinaryly. However, I will remind you that we should still support the intention of this law, not immediately amend this law because it is about first reading. I believe Mr. Minister and his assistant will get the best out of these discussions to have as high-quality legislation as possible. I will mention that one great water polo player Dubravko Šimenc said that she medals is a gold Olympic medal for the Croatian people and Croatian defenders. So they didn't expect it at the time, and these are sports pensions to say it in the common language, and that it's extremely important to put an asset censorship in those pensions because not all athletes are like that in equal terms, nor were they in sports where they were paid more or less. Some Olympic winners during their professional career are not quite certain, perhaps there are those who did not even have professional contracts because you were not previously on the OI when Coubertin's motto was that it was important to participate rather than win, they should not have professional contracts. I think we should know that, too. Today we are witnessing that this is no longer the case, so many have even taken away these golden Olympic medals, not for doping, but for having had a professional contract. So we absolutely support the intention of this law, we initiate the adoption of a new one, based on the strategy of developing Croatia's sport of passing a new law, and now we will not boast which city has done what it has done in view of certain budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37843	Thank you. The answer to Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37844	Thank you very much. Comrade Vinkovic, you said I came to the sport in my discussion multidisciplinaryally. Well, right, because sport is multidisciplinary. When we talk about introducing a census, this is a reward for excellence and whether we accept it as one or not, and it remains on the morals of a man whether he will use this. This is a prize for excellence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37845	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37846	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said that we all agreed on our intentions and that no one... In order, it means in good faith of this law and no one disputes it, but we did not agree in the implementation because we discriminated against half the sports in the Republic of Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have 34 Olympic sports that include 33 sports that this law does not include. And those people who are equally excellent, who are triple world bowling champions, world bottle champions, we can't put them in this form of law. It's his fault, nothing. He wasn't on the Olympic sports list, and he was great, he was the best, no one was better than him because he was the world champion. And then the message here is our young ones at the gallery, so I welcome them to do badminton, triathlon, horseback riding, modern five-color, but don't deal with bottled, bowling and some sports because you'll never be able to achieve compensation or state aid because the law is misspelled. Let's find out how many world champions we have in these 33 sports that aren't covered, so we'll figure out how much it costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37847	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, I'll do what I said. You're right and it's certainly my wish and all of us to reward all excellence. However, olympicism must be seen differently, I repeat, olympicism is a movement. And I'm sure this is the first step in rewarding excellence, and I believe that when it's possible to include other athletes who actually deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37848	And Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37849	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm glad my colleague, Šimac-Bonačić, is that you've seen this law from another corner, especially that of health care, and it really does seem that it's necessary to deal with sports and about prevention and cardio vascular diseases and diabetes that we don't talk about that part of a healthy spirit in a healthy body. And regardless of this agreement regarding these prizes and sports but we are obliged and obliged to send and send a message also on amateur sports dealings mainly in our rural areas where all these children, all of our young people are not in the same possibilities, where there is not enough resources to provide them with conditions from building sports halls to those football clubs that are spoken of by fellow Czechs. All these clubs require meanings and maintenance of lawns and equipment and all those rooms that certainly require additional funds. There are insufficient funds, and therefore the minister must hear it more regardless of two and a half billion. Many units of local self-government are in difficulty and are unable to do so. And that's why, in that part, with the care of this top sport, the ministry must also have the hearing for support, so also this amateur mainly in rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37850	The answer to Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37851	Thank you very much. My colleague, I am aware that in order to develop sports, the development of sports needs great financial resources. That's true, but you should be willing. If you're willing, if you have innovation, then you can do more with less. I repeat the program that we have introduced to elementary schools, i.e. from kindergartens we have already chosen it in cooperation with other cities in Croatia, but we have already gone to applications to European funds. So, as a local community especially when it comes to amateur sports, it's a matter of transition to amateur and professional sports. So local self-government needs to find ways. In what way? Here I'm telling you an example of ours we've applied to European funds. That's the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37852	Thank you. We continue the debate, colleague Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37853	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Scansi. Right at the beginning, let me say that I fully accept this proposal for a law amending the Sports Act. I understand the full criteria, where criteria have to be set and darts are not Olympic sport, and here the criteria set by the International Olympic Organisation, international criteria, have a relatively strong basis for me in this proposal. Although I'll be a little off topic at some point. In fact, this important proposal for a law amending the Law on Sports speaks for me a little bit more, and this bill speaks about human excellence, namely human excellence. The other day I will call him multilayer artist Željko Senečić in the morning list published a text on the existence of differences and conflicts of mediocrity and geniuses. Personally, I think the text is perfect, but it certainly left out the intentional category of excellence and the category of excellence. In one sentence, let me just tell you through the entire text, Senečić tells you that mediocres are used and enriched at the expense of geniuses and that in reality, geniuses are generally misunderstood losers, and mediocrites are real winners of genius minds, which is true. That's how the world really works, but it wouldn't work if there wasn't a category of great ones. The geniuses are very few and the brilliant discoveries are rare and always special and brilliant and often not fully understood by the contemporaries no matter how much we do, those contemporaries try to understand them. But one increases a group of people, and this is a particularly important group of people who belong to the category of excellent ones. They are excellent among us who are the most educated, the most professional, the most competent. They're not geniuses, but they're the ones who, at least with a bigger or smaller distance, first understand geniuses and genius ideas, admit them, translate them, implement them into our everyday life. It becomes excellent with a lot of learning, continuous learning, a lot of work with experience and self-awareness in time and space for which geniuses usually have neither talent nor time nor energy, nor needs. And excellent mediocres try to silence, reduce value and importance only time, for some time the mediocres succeed, for some time and for a long time, but fortunately for all of us never all the time. They are excellent everywhere and in all societies sometimes open spaces to take on such an important role in the process of progress, and we hope that these moments recognize and reach the opportunity and responsibility of leadership in progress. And these great guys are really pushing the world forward. They are excellent, as has already been said, with their talents but also with persistent and valuable learning, knowledge and work, promoting the boundaries of the current reach of human knowledge, culture, art, technology, economy and certainly sport. Top athletes belong in that category, category of excellent. There must be some geniuses among them, but there are few of them everywhere. Top athletes are mostly young people who, with numerous denials, intense physical effort and effort, learn techniques, and increasingly with high professional and scientific background help achieve top sports results. Clearly, they achieve these results for themselves, but they reach them for us. For us individuals who, with pleasure, emotions of tension and fanish passion, follow in their often extremely difficult ways to success. Top sport is an activity where there are more observers than athletes. And through that observation, we understand and enjoy talent, effort, strength, perseverance. We enjoy the excellence of every athlete, or athlete. In addition to our individual satisfaction and often collective emotional discharges, top athletes and athletes promote an individual and collectively positive competitive spirit. In international competitions, athletes and athletes perform and fight under the name and mark of the state. Those i.e. They thus promote the state and raise the country's reputation in the world that you benefit from each state and its companies, i.e. entrepreneurs and citizens. It is our turn to make the best of athletes and athletes a permanent debt because they and their citizens have permanently committed to their excellent world-class sports successes. We can be proud to have them. And in the name of excellence, I will be pleased to support that bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37854	Thank you. A further discussion has been carried out by the Sun's Head. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37855	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the day when the compensation for the excellence of the presented public was also referred to as the historic day for Croatian athletes, but I am sorry and here I am sorry that we heard today what became known in the people as sports pensions. So these are fees for excellence. These are the fees to those people we have to include in the sports community if they're not already involved in it. These are not any pensions, on the contrary, I appeal and I believe that it will be, that these top athletes, and we see that the reduced age limit to 45 is actively involved in working with young people, actively include as I have already spoken in replicas today as promoters of Croatian tourism, if it needs economies, cultures and in all other ways. The right to compensation, we heard today, will have the conquerors of Olympic and world medals, and given the economic situation, it has been justified that this is why and in some ways even though the proponent does not define it in some way discriminated over the rest of those athletes who won the medals, who actually won the top results. So, 86 athletes who won medals not at the Olympic Games, 70 World Championships and 8 at the Paralympic Games, and 38 at the Olympics of Deaf athletes will receive benefits for excellence. Once again, I'm sorry that these fees didn't take place last year when we changed the law, I'm sorry that we lost almost a year, or not us, but that the athletes lost it. We also referred criticism to the Croatian Olympic Committee at the time that they might have been more actively involved. I know Mr. Skansi personally insisted that it happen earlier, and some would say better than never. However, I join colleagues who have been troubled by what is with other top athletes because equally these sports, so the NeOlympic sports have a wide base, have a base that will recruit perhaps some future Olympic medal winners, God forbid as many top athletes as possible. In addition to recognising Croatia's exceptional achievements and promotion in the world, this way we will allow them to be present in sport after their career is over, to seal in sport and to help young people with their example. Of course it's hard to be an example if you finish your sports career, if you haven't managed to get an education, if you haven't been able to open your own company, if you weren't a top football player and opened your own bar and something else. It is difficult then to set an example for young ones because they may wonder why they might actually give up in this way. For example, I will cite from my environment, an example that has made Croatia proud all over Croatia is of gymnast Philip Ude, who is married to the Olympic medal, and here tomorrow will enter the European Championship finals in Moscow as the third with the third best result in qualifications, however it has not always been that way. Philip Ude, for example, trained from a sports hall toilet in the center of the town of Čakovec because it was the only place from which he could achieve speed so that he could, for example, skip a horse. I believe you've heard that, if you don't think you should know that, too. With Philip Ude for 15 years, two coaches have been working with whom the town of Čakovec owes more than a year to the city of Čakovec for their compensation. If it wasn't for them, if they hadn't been persistent, I wouldn't believe him either. So we need to know that he started without any swearing that there was no money and only after winning the medal was the only time sponsors appeared, only when after 15 years of bloody work he managed to get some success, he became the general public interested in him and that's true. No one wants to invest in a sport that is competing in the 3rd County League or the athletes you say this is a great potential, it will be an Olympic, and these people believed in Philip Ude, and I believe that tomorrow it will again achieve another success for Croatia. What about athletes, e.g. When you win the medal and you're injured for the second year, how do you raise your morale? You have to train during that time, it costs something, you don't work or educate, what about athletes like that? The local self-government unit sounds nice, we should take care of it, we should find the money, I'll repeat the money there's less and less for sport, the money's getting smaller for athletes. We're talking about athletes in total because I think when we're talking about a theme that's related to sports, we can talk about it that way. A variety of athletes commented on the ministry's decision, of course they welcomed her. However, they also said that they regret that these decisions had not come before, so our Ivano Balic said he was sorry that it had not happened before because some unfortunately our athletes died, modestly, poorly or on the edge of poverty and were and could use one of these privileges, not the privilege of being given something to them, but to repay Croatia for what they gave it. I hope that this will be a new incentive for the development of sports in Croatia, that by the second reading you will also respect these remarks, consider them and see what can be done. It doesn't mean that someone will have a great financial advantage, it just means that someone who has no other choice, who has no way of surviving the power to say decently I had a sports career and the state told me this way thank you. And lastly, just one example, it's not so close to us but, for example, at the NBA, so when we talk about top athletes, we talk about millions of euros, dollars whatever you want to make, they pay in a certain fund, and after 45 years with that money they can dispose of. So, each of the players after 45 years, and I believe Mr. Skansi knows it well, offers some of the models, and then that money can pull out at once or can be paid to death a certain monthly amount. I don't know if we can do something like that, or if we're onto something like that and the Sports Act when we're gonna change it again because now we can't because we're changing this one article. And I will conclude, of course, that we all agree that sport is one of the best promoters of Croatia in the world with our tourism, of course. That is why all these resources should be combined and what is excellence in any segment of our society should be presented as a common excellence to the Europe we are entering. And wherever you come from first, where you will actually recognize us is sport, because sport or through sport Croatia is the first to recognize itself in the world in those difficult times that are fortunately behind us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37856	Thank you, too. Next up for the debate, Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37857	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Scansi, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you very much. So sports historians who listened to the college, students usually say that sports culture is part of a common culture of one nation, one person, but I think it's not only important to know whether the national team or individual won major recognitions, places, gold, silver, bronze medals, but also whether that man and the people are practicing sport for overall improvement, for health, personal health, for the sake of the nation's health, for the sake of family health and everything else that sport brings. It's my opinion that we are, and it's allowed in this debate, that we've been wandering a little bit like clubs and individuals, that we've talked about amateur sports, that we've talked about recreation and also about top-notch sports. I think that there should be a breakdown of certain things and that special attention, which is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, makes them what I thank them for, and that is special attention should be paid to school sports, sports in primary and secondary schools and think in the future might be good in terms of children's health, because physical and health culture has that health component as well as other sports branches. In sport, as well as sport usually may increase an hour of physical and health culture mainly in primary schools, and perhaps even in secondary schools. If a colleague who teaches this class in elementary or high school has his duties between 22 and 25 hours and after his working hours, so on. free activities should work with children, they, I recommend them for reasons because they have colleagues and colleagues of pedagogical and psychological education and especially when it comes to child and youth psychology, pedagogical psychology, methods, didactics. We need these people, we need to use these potentials to keep them working and following those kids both in high school and when they're taken over by their clubmates. The low-rent sport as much as possible in recreational and every other sense, and then out of this mass, these people who follow that child regardless of which branch of sport is involved: "We have done such and such testing, we have applied these and these methods in this test, we have followed this child for 5, 6 years, it is a talent." And then the Croatian Olympic Committee comes along and says, "We will categorize this child and we will follow him for the rest of his sports career." And if the Croatian Olympic Committee has, and has obligations towards this categorized athlete, regardless of which category from first to sixth, if I am not mistaken, it stands as it once was, but a commitment to that child or to that collective, if collective sport has a community in which that child, that athlete lives, was working in the municipality, the city and the regional community as well as the county and state through the Croatian Olympic Committee should be rewarded. It is necessary to monitor the development of this child and certainly reward it for the needs it needs, there is not only one coach, there is also a psychologist, a pedagogue, there is also a sports doctor, if you see the progress of that individual or that team. Particular attention should be paid to the training of trainers, people who will lead those children, those students, those people in the current process, and of course it is an important approach, not only the coach who has closely specialized that sport, but also the other coaches and, above all, I am coming back to follow that health component of his. Today, the Faculty of Kinesiology is not a university that educates coaches, professors of physical and health culture, it is a dear friend of an institution, a scientific institution because what is the hardest part of sports? The hardest perhaps Mr. Skansi will also confirm when you lead a team of the most difficult dosages of athletes. You can do it with extreme sports in health and any sense if proper training is not dosaged by a disabled child. That's not the point, that's no one's goal. So this training of coaches and that these people and that we include in school after school in a school, sports club to work and to continuously follow that child to the national, world championships and the Olympic games. The Croatian Olympic Committee plays a significant role here, but I think it has a preventive role, the initial role that since the Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee is represented by all the branches of sport, I think they have a role, one of the roles and that the situation in alliances is settled because my heart hurts when I see that some alliances have taken a national selection to some competition to forgive the expression of the money for needs and selections. That's not good. I'm sorry for that expression, but, for example, Here's the Youth volleyball club is also the idea of a volleyball world in Europe and beyond. They don't have the means to play one game of homecoming. I think I should repeat, we in Croatia should say massiness that, celebrating sports yes, school sports clubs, primary high school academic clubs that, for them, separate even more resources and certainly include the profession, massality that Saturday at the elementary and high school hall on sports grounds will be a holiday where children with their trainers, teachers will have competitions in all sports branches and perhaps we are such an environment. We give more attention and more resources to team sports. I am for that variant, and I absolutely need to encourage it, but for me, as a school pedagogogogogist, it's worth what an electronic stopper is a mother. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37858	Thank you. We have one replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37859	Thank you. Well, you've touched one topic that's not so many predecessors have touched but I think it's worth still being referred to. It is a matter of physical exercise of physical education in schools and perhaps the need to increase the fund in both primary and secondary schools. I think all research shows that obesity is actually a problem and inactivity that increases the general population as well as among school children. You remember, we all remember that 15 years ago, 20 years ago, the playground was full of children, that today all the playgrounds were more or less deserted all over Croatia, that children are not in the playgrounds, that they are not engaged in sports, that they are not going out and I think it is really visible that the need is that if the fund is possible hours for this particular physical increase that at least this way children are brought in and brought into play with some kind of sports activities. On the other hand, the good part, for example, was largely extinguished by competitions both in football and basketball between schools. It's partly left to clubs, part county, city sports alliances, and actually it's more or less dying, that's what it was. They used to be mass competitions both in basketball and in football and in other sports between schools. It happened, it practically shuts down all over Croatia. I think that base really should be found in a way to encourage it and I think if I think about the trend of weight gain, the trends of inactivity that are present in the poor diet population certainly and partly through sport should affect them to try to reduce them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37860	Thank you. Next up for the argument, Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37861	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am truly happy because I see that unlike the practices of this government, the law that goes into two readings has come into existence no matter how much he is summed up, the good principle is that we gave up unnecessary emergency procedures, and it has already proved in today's debate that even in the absence of large laws, there are proposals and remarks that the proponent would have made if he had not already adopted but could have thought about them, so it seems to me quite right that this law also goes into two readings. Coming to the head of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the minister announced that he would introduce order in activities from his portfolio, including sports. I'm not going to comment on everything that's been said through the media about the football alliance, I'd stick to something else. And that's the fact that the ministry came up with the idea that something in the law should be changed, decided after those first changes that were more of a lexic character to settle the question of compensation for the winning medals that were all so far being talked about. However, reading this law imposes on me something as a conclusion that I think should be directed from this debate and I believe that there will be plenty of time to think about it and possibly put it into the law. Namely, the prizes for winning medals at the Olympic Games or World Cups are not what I would say basic and most necessarily what should be changed in this law. But there are some things, especially after the introduction of more sports inspections into the ministry why it seems to me that much more important what has burdened the activities of sports and what is already proposed by the law would be logical that the ministry has proposed to change. It's about registering sports associations. I'm talking about article 14. The law in which paragraph 3 applies, and the law is still in force, says that the establishment and establishment, legal position, registration and termination of associations of sports clubs apply the provisions of the Association Act, if it is not otherwise governed by that special law. And that article actually makes me tell the bear a service or additional problems in the work of all sports organisations. So I would say briefly that I suggest that when the ministry has decided to go into the amendments to the law and in this part, because so far it has proved that the Association Act is such a general law that it could not regulate not in the best but even in an adequate way the work of sports clubs from the fact that they are registered in alliances to some clubs today operating as companies and some as citizens' associations. Therefore, when time, strength and motive have already been found to change the Law on Sports, I plead that in these amendments, not waiting again for some long development of ideas to change in a simple way and this as regards the application of the Law on Associations to Sports Organisations. And I suggest you do what it might look like. Therefore, sports clubs and sports clubs, so all those alliances, as already provided for in this law, should be excluded from the application of the Association Act and for them to prescribe a different and more precise way of establishing them, and in particular the termination and bankruptcy of those clubs. I think the ministry is aware that so far the provisions have introduced quite a bit, I would say to the unknown, and that according to both this law and the earlier laws, in fact, it has not been able to implement the bankruptcy of some clubs, that it is unclearly their material financial business, and this is, before that, an even greater problem of the functioning of alliances of such imperfect clubs or associations. So when we came to thinking that it is necessary to change the law, I believe that for the sake of sports in Croatia it would be much more important to amend these provisions concerning the establishment, termination and monitoring of the work of sports organisations, that they are not subject to the Law on Associations than to determine these things as a special law but in a different way. So that this law, as a special law, refers to the establishment, establishment, legal position and registration of sports associations, not to be the Law on Associations but to be the Law on Sports and to the arrangements for their monitoring of work, as well as the termination of bankruptcy or liquidation of such associations or clubs in this case, there is even the problem that not only operate as associations but also operate as companies. What we know from the work of sports clubs so far is that this is a much bigger problem than what is the issue of gold medals won, and it seems to be one of the basic reasons why the public often appears with criticism of the work of these clubs because their work is often especially funding non-transparent or at least wrapped up in large suspicion of how these clubs function. So to conclude and not to take time, it is my proposal, and since we have two law readings, I do not see why the ministry would not consider it, to exclude sports associations from the application of the Association Act, and now that you're changing the law in this law, you're saying that these associations or sports clubs will organise how they will function and how their work will be monitored, association with alliances, and then their termination, given that there are many reasons already in this law that have met all the conditions that some clubs, because of the problems in financing and cease to exist, exist in another appropriate way to resolve the help of this sport so that they don't kill clubs that might otherwise serve for the development and health habits of citizens, but also sports at all. Here will be the proposal and I ask the Proposer to accept in these amendments the law and this proposal for establishment and registration under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37862	Thank you, too. There's a replica on your exhibit. Sunhead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You're right. So, the financial reporting system for all non-profit organisations, what you were talking about, so sports associations and institutions, is arranged so that they are not publicly available at the end of the report. So, that's pretty well arranged, so you can't see anything at the end. First they get the money and then they don't see it. However, a little order could be introduced by the Fiscal Responsibility Act. And so the funds for those non-profit organisations that are partly financed from the state and local budget should know how that money is spent. So this is quite true that we actually as a public cannot know what taxpayers' money was spent on. However, here, as we have heard today, we will not be able to resolve this because only one article is proposed here, but we will obviously have some more changes and additions, and then perhaps to resolve it as you have suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37864	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Young Man.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37865	I hope that you will accept in response to the replica of colleague Glavak that is exactly what I would like to complement what is important in this funding that most often happens not only to see clear criteria by which individual sports are financed, but that most often happens that those who are so to say the most popular sports are, I will not say generously. But as much as possible was financed from the state budget, either from the local budget and that some of them, for example, smaller sports will be cut off in some normal functioning or in their development. That's exactly why I'm pushing to say that not all the money from the state budget and local budgets go to football, but to extend the funding to those sports that will eventually give results when we're going to talk about rewards but that at least they can start working in a normal way with some kind of funding from these budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37866	Thank you. And next up for debate Drazenko Pandek. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. This is what we've exhausted the defendants for the hearing. Minister, I'm sure you'd like to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much to all the MPs and MPs for contributing to today's debate. What I'd like to say is that's what I said yesterday about including a debate on scientific activity and higher education, and that's what I want to say about sports. I do consider it the most sincere and I do so with my assistants who, by the way, are none of them members of any political party. We believe that science, education and sport should not have a party omen and that the discussions we have on science and sports should indeed go in the direction of improvement of both systems. And the vast majority of today have discussed it so, and I really thank you for that. The basic theme of this law and these changes were fees, but the fees that, through recognitions to top athletes, are also an important way of improving sports as a whole. This certainly is not the perfect proposal, the perfect proposals are rarely available, this proposal is certainly better than the proposal voted last year in last term, it is certainly better than the proposal. Maybe tomorrow we'll have some better suggestions. I think at this point this proposal is the most qualitative but all the remarks that have come about how to set the criteria, whether to expand, we will consider. We will not give up on the proposal as presented at this point when it comes to criteria, the Olympic, the Paralympic Games and sports games of the deaf and we will remain with the proposal that we also propose recognitions for winners at world championships in Olympic sports. Why? Because it's a measurable, clear, transparent criterion. However, what we will propose together, Mr. Skansi and I, Mr. Rudic, who prepares the National Sport Development Programme and strategy for sport development as a key document that will focus the development of sports in Croatia not only recreational, amateur but also professional, which is the determination of Croatian priorities. So, when we exactly categorize all sports in Croatia, then we will be able to say that, in Croatia, with the Olympic sports that we know the criteria for and how they became Olympic sports, there may be three, four other sports that are of national interest. And then when we know what national sports are of national interest, and that's not going to be decided by politics, but by athletes, we're going to be able to expand this proposal. At this moment we remain with this proposal but in some future changes when we have new strategic documents I think we may be able to come up with sports that we will say are of national Croatian interest and are not Olympic sports. But I don't want to bring it in at any point, I don't want to bring it to a shortcut, or any political party or lobby. Thus, this will make some other changes when it comes to premiums for top athletes even more high-quality. Of course, we will follow the suggestions, see how to install them into another reading. There is one interpretation that this cannot be done, there is another legal interpretation that a second reading can also include proposals that were not the subject of first reading, that is, as regards Article 47 of Mr. Kulusic and Article 14 of Mr. Mlakar. I thank you again for your contribution to the debate. And I am convinced that by voting this law after the second reading we will really contribute to the improvement of sports in the Republic of Croatia, while at the same time giving encouragement to young people to play sports as much as possible from the earliest age. And even though some did talk cynicalally about health care, health education in the first module is being further introduced into higher physical activity in primary schools without costing a single kuna. Thus, through health care, we encourage young people to pursue more physical activity, to eat healthier, and to live longer. And I will repeat, there are no HDSSB gentlemen, so this year there are significantly increased funds for the activities of the Croatian School Sports Union and all over Croatia are held inter-school competitions throughout the range of sports. It will be held even more since we have provided significantly higher funding, thus the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports fulfils its function when it comes to improving school sports. Once again, thank you all for contributing to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37868	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37869	Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Sports, first reading, P.Z. No. 316. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. First, the proposal of the Sport Act is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicants in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote is 100 votes in favour, 7 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37870	We're going back to work. - Final draft law implementing the European Union rules on the coordination of the social security system, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 290 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter with us is Deputy Minister Bozidar Stubelj with an associate. Deputy Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37871	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. As is said, therefore, this is a proposal for a law that complies with the European Union's standards. This legislative proposal is a mechanism for implementing regulations that regulate the coordination of social security systems. Namely, the entire area of coordination is regulated by regulations which are a secondary source of law and will be directly applied by the Republic of Croatia on the day of accession to full membership in the European Union. It is therefore necessary to ensure adequate institutions of structure as well as administrative capacities of institutions that will regulate implementation. As a total of seven institutions are responsible for the social security area in the Republic of Croatia, of which three ministries and four institutions, it is necessary to regulate their relations, the way mutual cooperation and the way representatives of the competent authorities and the competent institutions take part in the work bodies of the European Commission. This bill establishes an institutional structure for the application of the social security system coordination regulation. It is hereby confirmed that the Central Insurance Register will be a competent institution to act as an access point for electronic data exchange in the social security system at European Union level. It shall be determined that the HZMO, in addition to the section for which the institution is responsible, will also be a competent institution in charge of determining the legislation to be applied in each individual case by a worker or an independent employee who decides to apply the rights of freedom of movement of workers. It is proposed to establish a permanent inter-resor working group for coordination as a basic form of mutual cooperation and to prescribe its work cycle. The proposal also lays down certain tasks for competent authorities that come directly from regulations such as the obligation to give an opinion, to agree on the legislation applicable and to draw up an indication for the purposes of the meeting on the working bodies of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37872	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HNS Representative Sonja König. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37873	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, deputy deputy minister and associate. As already stated in the assessment of the situation covered by this law, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides for the division of the competence of the Union and the Member States in the field of social policy. We, also as a state signatories of the contract, have committed ourselves to adopt measures necessary in the field of social security to enable the freedom of movement of workers and to establish a system to guarantee rights from the social security system for employees, migrants and their dependent family members. And here's the law, this bill actually regulates the situation, and this law is actually a mechanism for implementing that whole story. How we will now have elected representatives in the European Parliament, who I once again congratulate on this election, by adopting this bill, and by adopting it, we will also have representatives in the working bodies of the European Commission in the area of coordination of the social security system. We therefore bring the law into line with European legislation, in particular the European Parliament and the Council's 2004 regulation 883. We have already amended and complemented many of the laws and regulations of the Law on Child Compensation, Employment Intervention and Rights Act during Employment, Laws and Rules relating to Pension, Social and Health Insurance because of this regulation. We have enabled all of their changes to acquire certain rights for workers from the European Economic Area in the same way as the regulated rights for our citizens. The proposal now sets out the competent authorities for all areas of social security, their personal and territorial coverage, their obligations to draw up opinions and to demonstrate as well as the means of communication between all competent authorities. As an access point for electronic data exchange, the Central Insurance Register, known as REGOS, mentioned it by the Deputy Minister, and while I mention it, so when we mention REGOS, I want to mention an example from their business that has recently been introduced, and shows how much use of new technology in this case of delivering or downloading electronic documents by electronic means can speed up and simplify and naturally cheape certain processes. Since the beginning of this year, extracts from the register and various other certificates and beliefs can be obtained free of charge by means of and online services. This, of course, accelerated administrative procedures, reduced red tape, and estimated to save about half a million kuna a year. I believe that even after the establishment of the EU information system, so-called access to the point faster and safer to deliver and exchange information related to social security, which is mostly still otherwise carried out and exchanged by paper. This access point information system should be fully operational by May 2014, and its establishment provides for the prevention of overlapping, i.e. the cumulation of payments made from the social security system and faster management of citizens' claims, thus clearly and rapidly calculating and paying fees. The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the social security system to persons employed and members of their families moving within the community has been amended and updated several times not only because of Community development but also because of changes in legislation at national levels. But against this modernisation of the system and this additional harmonisation, none of the member states had any significant objections, and neither do we at the HNS club, so we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37874	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37875	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear deputy with colleague, colleague and colleague. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU and SDP legislation will support this legislative proposal. This law lays down basic issues relating to the establishment of an institutional structure for the implementation of the EU social security system coordination regulations, i.e. competent authorities for all areas of social security covered by the coordination regulations as well as competent institutions and liaison bodies, including the tax administration's jurisdiction in the event of a return to compulsory insurance contributions. The basic issues that are regulated by the proposed law have been heard by some of us, so that the institution is designated responsible for the performance of the so-called business. Access points for electronic data exchange in the social security system shall be determined by the institution for the determination of the legislation applicable and the decision-making process in that area shall be determined by the competent coordination bodies in accordance with EU social security regulations, and the method of mutual cooperation of competent authorities and competent institutions in the field of social security systems shall be laid down. The competent authorities for participation in the work bodies of the European Commission, the means of participation of the liaison bodies with the working bodies of the European Commission, etc. shall also be determined. So all those jobs are prescribed for which the Ministry of Labour and Pensions is responsible, for which the health ministry, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth jobs are responsible. The competent institutions for the implementation of the European Union regulations on the coordination of the social security system and this law are therefore the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Croatian Employment Institute and the Central Insurance Register. The competent authority for the area of contribution to compulsory insurance is the Ministry of Finance Tax Administration, and the inter-resor working group is a basic form of cooperation between competent authorities and competent institutions in the field of coordination of social security systems. It is therefore necessary to provide adequate institutional structures and administrative capacity for the implementation of the Regulation. The adoption of this law will contribute to the realisation of the national interests of the Republic of Croatia within the framework of EU membership, and will support the adoption of this law for the sake of the above-mentioned SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37876	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. This proposal for a law implementing the European Union regulations on the coordination of the social security system of the Croatian Democratic Community club will support it. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU provides for the shared competence of the Union and Member States in the field of social policy. The area of coordination at EU level is regulated by regulations as a secondary source of EU law which will be directly applicable in the Republic of Croatia on accession days. Regulations adopted in 2004, 2009 The principles, material and legal, personal and territorial scope, the way in which legislation is defined, the way in which communication between competent authorities and others has been regulated in 2010 and the 12. However, this law should create conditions for protecting the important social issues of our citizens, and hence national interests of the Republic of Croatia within the framework of EU membership. The coordination of the social security system shall comply with the legal regulations with national legislation and ensure social security in two or more Member States. It also applies to workers, self-employed workers or to a working person who is moving or staying on the territory of more than one EU member of the EU, including members of the family and the person, and in order to exercise the right to give and the social security system. Since colleagues and promoters have already spoken about what areas it covers, means pension insurance, disability benefits and so on and what is within the competence that I would not repeat, however, the regulation contains one specific area, which is the determination of legislation to be applied in individual cases. The possibility of revising the summary of all Member States' decisions on the right to pension in an individual case is also foreseen, given that such an institute does not exist in domestic legislation. For our citizens, however, there are a number of questions that need to be answered and given security. Our citizens would also be safe for our citizens to be sure they should be well aware of their opportunities, to join the EU as of July 1st. So, for example. Are there questions when I move within the EU that the state is responsible for covering my health insurance? Or what happens to my pension if I worked in more than one EU country? Or, if I have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and I earn health insurance through a member of my family who is employed in one of the Member States who bear the costs of health care? Therefore, praise is a valuable brochure funded by the EU, which guides Croatia's EU rights. And there are all the rights of health and pension insurance, the rights of the unemployed and the like, everything that is now current in the Republic of Croatia and what will be and what rights our citizens will have since July 1st. From the point of view of the social security system, Croatian citizens will be equated with the citizens of the EU country where they live and work. But I also expect our institutions to apply that law of those Member States that best protect their citizens. As of 1 July and on many social issues, it will be easier to function especially on those citizens who have been insured in two or more Member States in the exercise of pension rights. Or those who exercise the right to compensation during unemployment, and they decided to look for a job in another Member State. Unfortunately, every day there is an increasing number of unemployed, unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia more and more are those who are using such financial fees. It's 81 grand right now. Even today, the government confirms that a further drop in employment is expected in 2013. 10% are unemployed this year in the same month compared to the same month last year. The number of 362,000 should be added to the number of 14 thousand. Namely, these are persons who are forced to work under the programme of public works and vocational training and these 14 thousand people will also be back at the Employment Office in 6 or 12 months. In one of the previous discussions, I mentioned and appealed to the ministry when it comes to receiving these young highly educated people who are so-called. professional training and receiving only 1600 kuna in order to be minimally equated with a minimum salary in the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of 2360. I expect this law will also help our citizens to protect their rights. That we will receive and apply recommendations to improve our system, to protect precisely those lowest incomes. The government today's presentation of the 2013 Economic Programme proposal states that, among other things, the aim is to reduce unemployment and reduce the number of socially endangered, and then, when speaking, what needs to be done in 2013 says that reforms in the area of social care, health and pension systems are necessary to ensure fiscal sustainability. I don't think there's any need to comment on what's going to happen to all these social incomes. However, we have a huge responsibility because the most important principle of civil law is respect for the treaty. And that is why we need to coordinate our legal gains with the acquis in order to contribute to the quality credibility of the Republic of Croatia in foreign and international politics. Social security is a particularly important item of national policy and HDZ will never obstruct the implementation of acts that improve legislation and allow our citizens social security. Therefore, we will support this bill. But let us give our citizens first social security in our country in order to be as safe as possible in the EU. Let us not let the EU and Europe teach us how to love and protect our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37878	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the debate was shared by Zlatko Tušak and Nancy Tyreli. Here you go, Comrade Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37879	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. I'm sorry the Minister of Labour didn't have time, probably because of his duties, so he is unable to attend this debate. Why? So because when we talk about social security and the Social Security Coordination Act, I have to relate to one segment where I'm not allowed to replicate the Minister of Labour and Pensions System, is the Vice-President practically not allowed me to replicate, although nowhere in the Rules of Procedure stands that the answer to the presentation of the president or vice president of the club stands only by the club, there is no replica, and nowhere does it stand that answers to these questions are no replicas. That doesn't stand anywhere in the Rules of Procedure. I'd like someone to show me that it's in the Rules of Procedure. But well, when we talk about social security, then we have to talk about the minimum wage law, because it's also a social category. And as much as we try to fix the social picture in Croatia, the government is not interested in that, and it postpones its part of the adoption and regulation that it has taken over from the Minimum Payment Act. The minister said we're using this pay phone for pre-election time. This government, no one threatened it, could pass the minimum wage regulation and it could already be in force and help 60,000 workers who receive minimum wage, their 200,000 families and practically take up space to talk about it. But no, he's trying to get his hands on the employers, let the workers still stand and it looks like the workers are the last holes in the play. I would not be surprised that this space that has been given to employers in some way does not take advantage of the two opportunities they have, one is to blackmail trade unions to cancel a collective agreement if they do not agree to agree on a lower minimum wage to be made by the Government by their own regulation or not to blackmail them in another way that they will withdraw certain rights from the rules if a collective minimum wage contract is not signed, which allows the Minimum Payment Act. This is what we have warned about and that is what we are saying that the social picture in Croatia is constantly being disrupted. And clearly, we have a situation that we have 250,000 citizens who have blocked accounts, that we have an army that digs through containers and the government is quite still, it delays the adoption of that minimum wage and helps people. However, to return to the very proposal for a law implementing the EU regulation on the coordination of the social policy system, this law is an obligation arising from the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU and the Croatian Labourists will support it because it is a necessary obligation and in our opinion there is nothing disputed about what should be warned when it comes to harmonisation with EU legislation. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU regulates the competence of the Union, the Member States and the area of social policy. Obligations are governed by the freedom of movement contract of persons, capital and services and for this purpose a system has been established to guarantee rights from the social policy system for migrant employees and only migrant workers. The area of social security coordination at EU level is governed by regulations as a source of EU law which will be directly applicable in the Republic of Croatia with the accession date. The regulations regulate the principles of coordination of social security systems, material rights and personal and territorial coverage and the way in which legislation is to be applied in each case. Furthermore, the way communication from the system of establishing electronic data exchange systems among EU members is being arranged. In addition, the bodies in charge of coordination within the European Commission in the work of EU countries shall be governed. The law regulates the competence of the bodies and liaison bodies, the tasks of those bodies in the implementation of the EU social security system coordination regulations, the means of participation of representatives in bodies and expert committees of the European Commission responsible for issues related to the coordination of social security systems, the establishment of a permanent inter-resor working group for the coordination of social security systems and the part-rounding of its work. Articles 4, 5, 6 of the Law lay down the tasks to be carried out by the competent ministries in the coordination of social security and are prescribed for the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. The law also provides for the competences of certain institutions belonging to the coordination of the social policy system where the central insurance register plays a key role. And at the end of our presentation, we Croatian Labourists have no objections as I said at the beginning of the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37880	Dear Vice President, deputy associate, colleague and colleague. I'm going to use this law implementing the EU regulation to point to two problems that are happening to us, and maybe here I'll already use this pay phone not for the pre-election campaign, but just to resolve the social status of our Croatian citizens on the basis of what a colleague said on behalf of the HDZ club that it's good to adopt EU regulations, but that we also have a lot of work to do in our own backyard. The first question we certainly need to resolve is the status of 2nd and 3rd category persons who were day-to-day migrants who worked in the Republic of Slovenia. They have acquired the status of disabled people according to Slovenian regulations since our former state since the 1990s we have been trying to resolve the issue, but despite all the efforts these people have remained without any status. Those who have worked in Slovenia for the entire century have no institutions in Croatia, or have no list of these daily migrants. The HZMO shall keep records of the insurance, payment bonds and rights users under its home records and, therefore, of the fact that the group of daily migrants does not belong to any of that categories, do not have data on them. Those people stayed somewhere on the ice. We have now formed another committee between which their legal status between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia should be resolved. I hope you'll answer my deputy's power to the question not because of me but because of all of them who are asking for the answer to that question, what are they going to change by this law that we're discussing today? The other problem that arises is about taxation of foreign pensions. I'll try to be specific and here's the thing. We have a case where a Croatian citizen gets from the Republic of Austria so-called A widow's pension because she is a widow and a poor pension as she is called the Republic of Croatia gets her underage son at the expense of the parents or husband who died. We tried to obtain information from the Ministry of Finance when applying for tax returns, from the Ministry of Pensions, whether these pensions received from the Republic of Austria are entitled to refuse or refuse a personal deduction on the basis of a pension of 3400 kuna or not. We also heard today that the adoption of this law on the implementation of the EU regulation will approach each individual case. I think that these individual cases in Croatia now with foreign pensions we have a lot because we are in trouble in the part where our system simply doesn't recognize such categories of pensions. So we have a person who's still working hard, who gets every month's salary, who, on the basis of that salary, pays income tax neatly. However, the receipt of such a pension is due to the current account, and we do not know which tax base is applied and whether the personal deduction is only related to income income, or whether this pension as another category is also used as a working activity, or whether an additional personal deduction may be applied on the basis of a pension. So these are definitely things that we need to solve in Croatia, bilateral agreements I know we have to do with a pension with, say, Germany. Austria has remained open to us somewhere, these people pay very large taxes and it is not even a problem that they pay their tax obligations. The problem is, however, that no competent ministry and that no institutions in Croatia in Croatia and Croatian citizens know how to make a reckoning, how to file tax returns. It turns out in the end that these people, in fear of turning out not to want to pay taxes, pay more taxes, and I think that we have to take care of that, and that these two examples of living examples are only on the trail of that, they think that when we say we have a lot of work to do in Croatia, that the social status of our Croatian citizens must be resolved here and then the status of resolving the rights of Croatian citizens by entering the EU will certainly be easier to resolve by means of regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37881	Thank you. We have a replica at the presentation of Zlatko Tušak, Gordan Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I have to react to part of the debate that my colleague used to talk about postponing the Minimum Salary Act. So, your esteemed colleague, the minister, was here, and he responded after asking for your break. But apparently it is necessary to repeat it once again to the public for the minimum wage law, it says if I do not cheat that the Government will execute after the adoption of the law of consultation with the social partners before it adopts a regulation on the application of the law. On Tuesday, consultations were held on Tuesday, which included employers and all four union centres, and this delay was the result of their mutual agreement and the truth in order not to now it turns out that only there was going to someone's hand and unions and employers were looking for a minimum month of delay in applying the law for their mutual agreement with the fact that the employers had asked that it would start to apply from 1.7. then they agreed that the law would start to apply from the first June of this year and during this period, trade unions and employers should negotiate with each other and then, in the future, please at least try to inform the public in part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37883	Thank you. Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37884	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sobol, this House has passed the Minimum Salary Act. The Minimum Salary Act states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will issue a minimum wage regulation within 15 days. In the debate we held and discussions which were also the answers of the Minister of Labour and Pension System that the Government would do so within 15 days and we were told the amount of minimum wage will be agreed with the social partners. After the law was passed, employers reacted, based on the government's response to the government's prolonging and bringing what the minister said today. Like there was a debate when the minister said it at the time? Take a phonogram and read it, so I'm not talking to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37885	Please, fellow Sobol, don't speak from the bench, you didn't get the word. Please set your colleague's shower.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37886	And when it comes to minimum wage, I stick to what was said in this House of Commons, and not after that, is this House passing these laws? If it's going to be brought by social partners or just the government, then we don't need us here at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37887	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy with an assistant. Here I have now decided to wear the Rules of Procedure for the Speaker's Office in any case so that certain interpretations of the Rules of Procedure which have not been published in the NN would not prevent me from presenting the opinion of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Since this is and not only is this a future European law, not to repeat everything my predecessors have said, I will take this opportunity to congratulate all elected MPs in the EU parliament, but also to ask the question why we have spent 83 or 85 million kunas from the state budget in order to clearly show the public that this response to the EU elections to parliament or the first euro elections in the Republic of Croatia has been disastrous and that I will probably take this coming out of the European elections for a long and long time for the EU Parliament. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37889	Comrade Vinkovic, stick to the Rules of Procedure, or you may have taken the wrong reminder, paper. Check it out. The theme is system coordination.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37890	... Perhaps it would be better if we had invested right in the social security of citizens primarily in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder: Stick to the topic.]] So, I'm strictly law-abiding and I support this law, among other things, that I'm not reading the argument now, etc. which also applies to our citizens but also to EU citizens. I hope you've read the law, too. But this is also an opportunity, so why is it spent publicly? On the other hand, the social security of citizens is therefore passed among other things by one law but is passed by law, for example. about the minimum wage adopted after the debate by the Croatian Parliament, so the MPs who have been elected are adopted. The government has been elected by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of who has ascended by proving otherwise, even interpreting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in their own way, cannot at least those who listen and watch this transfer, and these are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and even workers who are socially endangered cannot convince the contrary. So that law was supposed to take effect on 11 April, and that's part of social security, one small part. That minimum salary of 2984 kuna and 78 limes exactly in gross. Well, now that we're not talking too much, we're not whispering here I would suggest that all members of the government, assistants, deputies, all parliamentary deputies, so everyone including the opposition and position here for at least one month at least one month try to survive that minimum wage with all those personal deductions, children's rights, wives, etc. It's how it's done for the dependent family members, so someone doesn't get me wrong. Here's one month to try to live, and we'll see what it's like to live off a minimum wage. Here we are convinced that a deal has been reached with the social partners. It is likely that we will have workers on the street at the International Labour Day instead of celebrating the work holiday. This is a question that also raises the question of those 800 thousand pensioners in the Republic of Croatia who, with their pension well earned, do not mean privileged pensions because they have not all abolished preferential pensions, cannot survive and make ends meet. This isn't an election speech, and I don't need it. It's the question of those 370,000 unemployed who have no social security passed this law to me or didn't adopt it. It's a question of those employees still working for a month or two not receiving their salary. And incontroverted government regulations, I'm asking the question again. Whether the Government Regulation is stronger than the law that was to enter into force on 11 April. And it depends on social security. That's the 170 kuna in the brutus more. And it's not just the wood industry, the textile, the leather, there's the construction, there's the agriculture. Well, there's almost a whole of Slavonia and Baranja except for those who are employed in the state administration, local, regional, almost everyone is on the minimal. This also shows statistical indicators. I hope this law will allow first of all not to happen some things like this. in Greece, that instead of paying the workers who went there to read strawberries, I don't believe that someone from Croatia went instead of giving them that salary he shot at them, I hope that's not going to happen. And this is the Member State of the European Union, which also signed one of these agreements, brought the Social Security Act into line. Well, then, perhaps, the government has adopted some other regulation that has put the law out of effect, which is to say published in the Greek People's Newspaper. Or how it's already going with them. Then I don't know if there are now elected representatives in the Europarliament, the Government, following what is happening in that same European Parliament. Where, among other things, the European Parliament warns the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, for example, The strategic investment law in the territory of the Republic of Croatia that was supposed to bring about the boom of the obvious economy, the reduction of unemployment and all that is written in the more non-existent, fairy tales of the Grimm brothers, Redpapica and Plan 21, only in that bank Redcap and Grandma did not save the hunter but was swallowed by the wolf, that is, this government. The European Parliament therefore warns that this law does not comply with the laws of the European Union at all. It was adopted yesterday by the European Parliament. Because it does not comply with the European Union's positive regulations, because one such law should protect the environment, property, citizens etc., etc. This is obviously a clear message from the European Parliament to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also to us MPs who sometimes raise their hands zealously for certain laws and even in the first reading, to some of us who oppose certain laws but above all also to propose that they listen to what MPs say. So, the HDSSB Club will support this law, but here we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia first of all not to adopt regulations, provisions that put the law of the Republic of Croatia, adopted by the Council of the Republic of Croatia to really reach an agreement with the social partners, here I am thinking of trade unions and Croatian employers' associations, because obviously we have witnessed that here some day the trade unions probably had that famous press conference where they said they were really going out on the street, no one's interested in the street, be assured. So what kind of agreement is this where the Croatian Employers' Association corresponds to certain words of the Minister of Finance with extremely sentimental feelings. And it is a unique sign that there is no social agreement in Croatia. And we can tell a story and we're not little kids. I say that on behalf of this Parliament, too, but I speak first of all in the name of both the unemployed and those who are on a minimum wage and those who cannot live on pensions and those who do not receive wages. But also on behalf of those young people leaving Croatia today. Now there's a new song from Skora called why they lie to our faces so listen to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37891	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, sir... Two things, as regards the European Union, European elections and social security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With all the crisis the European Union is currently experiencing, with the euro crisis, with unemployment. The European Union remains the space of the greatest social security for people on the globe. And it is quite certain that the participation of our representatives in the institutions of the European Union, especially when it comes to an important institution such as the European Parliament will not have a negative effect on the social security of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. It's another thing. I need an explanation, whether we should all live together on your proposal and the amount of illegally charged travel expenses because it's a clean minimum.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37893	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37894	So I'd like that amount of illegally charged travel expenses to get into that. As far as I'm concerned, I've already said that my conscience is clean, the case is in the Supreme Court and I still believe in the Croatian judiciary. On the other hand, regarding the European Union, Mr Coleman, so the HDSSB club supported this law, and as far as this minimumer is concerned, be assured that at this moment, I believe, listen and watch Croatian citizens, so this proposal that you have rejected with disgust because you obviously do not care about these Croatian citizens, obviously have a completely different opinion. On the other hand, to me at all, I won't even comment on you anymore because the words you refer speak more about you than about me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37895	Thank you very much. The closing word of Deputy Minister of Labour and the pension system of the respected Bozidar Stubelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37896	Thank you, Mr. President. So here at the beginning I would like to thank you, or finally, everyone who supported this bill, so to all the clubs of this House of Commons, and right away to say that actually this area of social security coordination regulates the area of mothering, child's allowance, pensions and unemployment benefits. No minimum wage. What is related to the issues that of course exist and will certainly need to be addressed right now can be solved via the site of HZMO and everything related to cross-border cases with Slovenia also through an inter-resor working group that is formed and there we can actually ask all questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37897	Thank you very much. We have a signed replica, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37898	I'm sorry, this may not be a replica, but here I'm going to use the deputy here to maybe ask what's wrong with the Köning workers and what's the matter with public works because I also believe that here are the Cooning workers who have the right to social security. If you don't know the answer, I'll refer that question to someone else. But here's the question of public works, given that after the shift of certain leaders in the HZZ, there are two double criteria for these public works, therefore some units of local self-government are forced to leave employees for another 6 months after 6 months of public work, even though there is a legal provision that allows it exclusively to go to the expense of the state. Thus, wanting to prevent the project from disappearing absolutely because it is obviously one project that has been revived and which at this point is one big way out of the situation at least to get that minimumer that clearly remains 2831 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37899	Thank you very much. Replica reply, dear Deputy Minister Bozidar Stubelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37900	Well, if you have any knowledge, information that something's wrong, report it, we'll check it out, we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37901	Thank you very much. So we exhausted the list of respondents to the debate and the list of replicas and the reply to the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37902	Final draft law implementing EU rules on the coordination of the social security system, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 290 The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 107 votes to adopt the Law implementing the EU Regulation on the coordination of the social security system in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37903	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final draft law supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 291 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Labour and Pension System Bozidar Stubelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37904	Thank you. Therefore, this proposal also implements the harmonisation of the applicable Law on Obligations and Voluntary Pension Funds with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010, and amending the Directive, not to list them now, there are plenty of them. By way of derogation from Article 4 of that Directive, Directive 2003/41/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 June 2003 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational pension insurance relating to part of voluntary pension insurance, individual capitalised savings, closed voluntary pension funds and pension societies managed by them. Amendments and additions to that Directive shall be adopted as a result of Regulation (EU) No 10/94 of the European Union of 2010. The European Parliament and the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisory Authority. Therefore, this proposal also provides for the implementation of that Regulation, i.e. the obligation of the Croatian Agency for the Control of Financial Services for Implementation and Control of Application, the Regulation establishing the obligation of the HANFA to the European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Professional Pension Insurance in relation to mutual cooperation, the supply of prescribed data and reporting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37905	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Do the Committee's working bodies want to take part in the reports? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The debate starts with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the turn of the HNS club and the esteemed representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37906	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. This law briefly regulates the relations of our financial services control agency, of course, with the European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Professional Pension Insurance with so-called “HANFA”. EIOPA. Since I believe that few of our fellow citizens are familiar with this agency, and because of us, I will say a few sentences about it, as this bill will help us to work closely and closely with it. EIOPA is responsible for the development of technical standards and guidelines that our HANFA should also adhere to, and members of the HANFA Management Board are already actively involved in EIOPA's monitoring committee activities. Soon our HANFA will also become a member who has a full right to vote in the EIOPA Supervisory Board, which is also the main body that makes decisions, adopts opinions, discusses and makes budgets. The EIOPA was established in 2011 as an independent and advisory body and is the main task of contributing to the stability of the EU financial system through ensuring transparency and orderly functioning of the financial market. By carrying out its tasks, the agency must and acts objectively, its headquarters is in Frankfurt, and currently its main, or the President is Portuguese Gabriel Bernardino. The main objectives of this European regulator are to better protect consumers and restore trust in the financial system and increase the fund and consistent application of rules for financial institutions and financial markets across the EU. The EIOPA is responsible for monitoring and recognising trends, possible risks and weaknesses that may occur at all levels, and since we will soon work closely with it, so I had to say a few information about this agency because the Insurance Act that we discussed the day before yesterday was committed to working together, and we missed a little bit closer to explaining and clarifying the objective and the purpose of the institution. We in HNS are confident that EU membership will open up opportunities for future growth of the insurance market, so of course the growth of the Croatian insurance market, and cooperation with the EIP will help preserve financial stability and raise the level of consumer protection, and that is why we in the HNS club will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37907	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn and the respected representative Vanja Posavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37908	I would like to thank the esteemed President, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Therefore, this legislative proposal also aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU and SDP legislation will support this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds with the final draft law. Namely, the pension insurance system in the Republic of Croatia is arranged as a three-part pension system, which makes up compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity, then compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individualised capitalised savings and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individualised capitalised savings. The Republic of Croatia has committed itself by signing the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to bring its national legislation into line with the acquis of the EU, as well as with new directives that came into force after the closure of certain negotiating chapters. Taking into account the commitment and the fact that Directive 2010/78 of the EU and of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 November 2010 amending certain Directives which I am not going to list are the necessary provisions of the law, therefore necessary to comply with this EU act in an appropriate manner. The supplement should be carried out in connection with the activity and supervision of institutions for occupational pension insurance, which concerns part of voluntary pension insurance, individualised capitalised, individual apology of capitalised savings, i.e. closed voluntary pension funds or pension societies operating them. It is necessary to regulate the relations, i.e. the obligations of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisor to the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisor. This legislative proposal addresses the following issues: the harmonisation of the applicable law with the legal property of the EU and the regulation of the Agency's obligations to implement and monitor the application of that Regulation. The European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Professional Pension Insurance or EIOPA abbreviations is also defined. The Agency shall be subject to the obligation to inform the EIOPA of any activities undertaken related to the possibility as well as the procedure for the management of the closed pension fund operations in another Member State by the Management Company authorised to carry out management operations by a voluntary pension fund. The Agency shall also inform the European Supervisory Authority of the provisions of the prudential legislation. Therefore, the Agency is required to cooperate with EIOPA and the Agency must inform the European Commission and EIOPA of any difficulties encountered under the application of the Directive. The adoption of this law will bring Croatia's legislation into line with the amended and updated EU acquis in Chapter 2. – Freedom of movement of workers as well as in Chapter 19. – Social policy and employment and in Chapter 9. – Financial services, i.e. full arrangements for cooperation between the Agency and the European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Occupational Pensions. The implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the state budget. Based on everything previously said, the SDP will support this proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds with the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37909	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Đuro Popijač. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37910	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy with an associate. Here is the proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds and, as has already been brought here many times, the adoption of this law will bring Croatia's legislation into line with the amended and complemented acquis of the EU in several chapters, so 9. – Financial services, 19. Social policy and employment, 2. - Freedom of movement of workers. In essence, there is an obligation to cooperate between HANFA and the European Insurance Supervisor and Occupational Pensions Authority. The accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU of voluntary pension societies from the Republic of Croatia will allow them to accept patronage by sponsors from the Member States. In which the supervision of such societies will be carried out by HANFA. Therefore, HANFA will have to cooperate intensively with the competent authority of the host Member State. It will therefore also have an obligation to inform the European Supervisory Authority in its activities related to the work of voluntary pension societies. This is about technical harmonisation of laws with EU directives and essentially does not bring any changes to the pension insurance system in the Republic of Croatia. The pension insurance system in the Republic of Croatia is regulated as a three-part pension system which is made up of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity, compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of capitalised savings. Therefore, it should be said that the second and third pillars are based on a capitalised savings system where employees save on personal accounts, and the savings are personal property from which they will be paid their pension. Although it was expected that reforms and necessary changes in the entire pension system would continue within almost a year and a half of the current authorities, unfortunately except for these changes that require harmonisation with the EU, nothing is happening. The dramatic deterioration of economic opportunities with the fall of all economic indicators and 70,000 lost jobs is naturally reflected negatively on the pension system. There are more and more beneficiaries of pension funds, and fewer of those who are paying into these funds. With the complete inadequacy and inability of this government to stop the negative trends, the sustainability of our pension system is at stake. About a million and 659 thousand members today keep their pension accounts in 4 compulsory pension funds. The net assets of these funds are slightly less than 54 billion kuna at the moment. In addition, in open voluntary pension funds, about 188 thousand people are saving around $1.8 billion of property and another 18 thousand are saving in closed pension funds with about 350 million in assets, which is essentially the subject of this change in this law. The number of members of mandatory pension funds is on the rise every year, but it worries that the amount of payments is falling at an annual level of around 2.01%, as is the direct consequence of all the negative trends in the Croatian economy. Although it is quite clear that changes for better and in the status of Croatian existing pensioners and the overall state of the pension system are necessary only with the recovery of the economy, it is necessary to go straight to serious reforms related to the entire pension system if we want to experience any system in 10 or 15 years. Do nothing like do this government pushes into great uncertainty both the current millions and 200 thousand pensioners and the future generations of pensioners who are now members of the second and third pillar funds. Given the truly technical character of these changes, the HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37911	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the HDSSB club and the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37912	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the promoters, MPs and MPs. Very briefly, I do not think of these technical changes as having any particular objections since it is a matter of harmonisation with EU legislation. Therefore, the HDSSB Representatives' Club will also agree with this. As the predecessors, I would like to express a little regret that the ministry's so far has not taken more seriously, so if you want the question of pension funds, especially pension funds in the second pillar. I will remind, for example, of the relationship between pension funds and government bonds, the issue of credit rating of the Republic of Croatia which fell to the lowest category, and how this credit rating will reflect the value of the assets of pension funds are, in particular, these funds in the 2nd pillar, since they are actually property of Croatian citizens, their salaries from which one part goes to these mandatory pension funds. According to available data, pension funds have so far invested nearly 30 billion kunas in government bonds, which is about 66.7% of the total portfolio of pension funds, so around 4 billion euros currently immobilized in government bonds with a drop in credit ratings, the question of how it reflects actually what citizens can't decide on is already being taken. Also, have we taken responsibility for, whether we have taken measures to protect that property, whether we have a plan whether our citizens will lose more in total through investing that part of their liabilities, invest or single out that part for their pensions and whether there is any plan about it, the problem of that second pension column. Not to come to this 3rd volunteer. The impression is, in fact, that in some ways, citizens are being pulled out, one regularly, one amount of money from their salaries, that money is systematically being poured to the greatest extent actually into government bonds, part of it is being poured into the stock market. This part of the stock exchanges has also largely been reduced and where citizens actually, here are now pension funds for more than a decade, the 2nd pillar exists for more than a decade, which is the final balance of the existence of the second pillar. And what are the effects of the reform of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd pillar? I think it's time, that a sufficient time-share has passed, that some line is being underlined and seen what is being obtained and how much, and whether at all citizens will really capitalize that second pension column through their pensions, or actually in some way, it wasn't the legislator's intensity when it was passed, but through these unfortunate events and this financial crisis, through the drop in credit rating, through the fall of the stock's values it would actually turn out to be, in the end, a national financial engineering in which actually Croatian citizens will ultimately less capitalise a total of what was taken from them during their working life. So maybe it's time for someone to finally put some figures on paper, to see how credit rating affects it, and what are even the ways in which a complete disappearance actually happens, or to a rather large extent, the fear and disappearance of that substrate, and the large amount of money actually being drawn out to citizens, and so far you've invested very little since a relatively small number of citizens have started to make pensions through the 2nd pillar. Here, in this sense, the call actually to the legislator to take this subject a little more seriously and to see if there is any answer to that question and to offer one analysis and also to answer how it will be answered, whether or not by changing the mandatory shares in portfolios that are now assigned to these pension societies in the second pillar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37913	Thank you, too. The closing word of Deputy Minister of Labour and Pension System, respected Bozidar Stubelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37914	So, even with this law, I would like to thank the clubs that supported the bill. But when we talk about the pension system, the fact is that it needs to be improved, that it needs to be arranged for the reason that since 2000, when the 2nd pillar was introduced, nothing more important really changed in it. What is even more important to highlight from this place is that we are preparing a serious pension reform in which we want to make the system more transparent and sustainable and of course ensure that pensions from both the 1st, and the 2rd and 3rd pillars contribute to making it possible to live properly and, of course, survive from retirement. But we must not forget that retirement is an individual thing. So it's calculated and I'd say it's allotted on the basis of paid contributions, so pay. We now have cases that pay that minimum amount and, of course, such a pension, or such payments, can't even make pensions better, and that's our problem. Of course, this change we're preparing, and we're planning to think about it, and we want to divide and sort by individual categories, by individual systems. We know he had pensions under general, according to special regulations. Now we're funding them all from the budget without seeing payments by categories. So a lot of space that I hope will significantly improve the pension system. Thank you again for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37915	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. That's how we exhausted the reported list. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote on the proposal when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37916	Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 291 The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 108 votes, the Law on Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37917	We move on to - Final proposal of the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 319; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. We can submit amendments until the end of the debate on this draft law in accordance with Article 164 of the Treaty. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received a report from these working bodies at the session. Do you want a representative of the proposing respected Minister Anka Mrak Taritas? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37918	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honored days and gentlemen parliamentary representatives. This is about the final draft law on national spatial data infrastructure. It is a law that has both spatial data regarding space management that is of paramount importance. Namely, INSPIRE Directive says that all the data with which we lay must be public, available and transparent. Similarly, according to the data that we get about 80% of this data has a consequence of space. What does that mean? When you collect information about endemic diseases, you also plan to develop a certain space, you must have that information and that importance. This law, in accordance with the INSPIRE Directive and its role and importance, defines a set of technologies, measures, standards, rules, services. The same way of uniting, managing and maintaining that data. What does NIP mean? The NIP actually includes technical elements for sources, a system of meta-data. Here we are on Monday, in front of the ministry, putting into one test drive something we call the ISPO, which is the information system of spatial planning. What does that mean? This means that any citizen, any investor, is very simply coming to the Ministry's website, can get information that is planned in space on his real estate regardless of whether it's land or a building or some other kind of property. What does it mean? It means he can get the same amount of information he needs to get. But when you look at our portal and there's an icon in the bottom corner that says the data meta system. This means that the portal is already complex in accordance with the INSPIRE directive, that the data is complex according to all the elements that apply to the EU. In this way, our system of spatial order has already been accepted and made in a way that is acceptable in all EU countries. Similarly, this law defines the way services, rules, conditions of use, supervision, processes are provided, as well as how the geo portal works and, of course, the human potentials that are very important and very important there. What's important in terms of governance, it's NIP's managing bodies, we're calling them NIPs, because otherwise it's a shortcut that all of the benefits, are council committees, working groups and national contact point is the State Geodetic Authority. This does not mean that all data will be stored in the state geodetic administration but through this contact point of anyone who will be interested in the level of the EU data as much as we have kindergarten children in Croatia, the use of contact point DGU will receive information on where this data is located and thus we will say a good Croatian link when it comes to this information. For the time being, we have this portal, which is on the Ministry's website, also in the future, through DGU, all data collected in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of which public body is collecting, is available and thus will be obtained by our population and the entire EU information on the way and what we are collecting and what is happening in the space. Therefore, this law may be written in a bit of a technical dictionary, but for a simple reason, it is this type of law, and we can really boast that here before Croatia's accession, we will have hopefully one such law that some other countries in the environment that are already not members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37919	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Do the workers' committee rapporteurs want to take part in the report? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's HNS Club and Honorable Representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37920	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Dear Minister, the Honorable Director of the State Geodetic Administration. What about me? I'm talking about introducing order again. I keep talking in my assembly about introducing order and introducing lines on one of the key promises and key tasks of the Kukuriku coalition parties. This is one of those procedures. This is one of those laws that helps introduce order into the Croatian state system primarily public administration but also in all systems of the Republic of Croatia. The Minister has already said, almost 80% of all the data we have at that level has in some way a connection to the space, or spatial component. Unfortunately, at this point these data are located, collected and maintained in different places separate from each other and are also in various formats and in various models of the organisation, which has so far made it impossible to use transparent and efficient on the one hand and it is important to highlight the increased costs. This bill is based on the already mentioned INSPIRE directive, which forms a framework for NIPs within the EU Member States. The basic principles of INSPIRE Directives are spatial data stored, available and maintained at the most appropriate level. The possibility of combining spatial data from different sources across the EU, sharing spatial data between various state authorities and levels of government. Data are available without an air limit of wider use, etc. and these are the principles on which this bill is based. The key task of this law is to access, share, use and update spatial data on the principles of transparency, proportionality, economics and accessibility. I would like to stress that this law will also allow for greater efficiency of the state administration. And all of you who have dealt with or ever considered reforming the state administration at any level know well that one of the elements of an effective state administration and one of the elements in the reform of any level of state administration is precisely data, their transparency, their organisation, their interlinkagement and their availability both of the information about the administration itself and the subject itself that we talk about and the data that various departments and various institutions have. So in any case, in the area of increasing the efficiency of the state administration in the Republic of Croatia, this is also an important law and important step. The spatial data covered by this law are all data relating to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the internal seawater, the territorial sea, the epicontinental belt, and environmental protection or economic areas and other areas over which the Republic of Croatia exercise sovereign rights. The other word has everything that the Republic of Croatia has in every sense. What is important to stress also that this law does not oblige it to collect new data but, in accordance with the INSPIRE Directive, requires harmonisation of already existing ones. The NIP entities are all those who maintain and make available information on spatial data in their jurisdiction. These are therefore state administration bodies and regional and local self-government authorities and public systems, wholly or principally owned by the Republic of Croatia and natural or legal persons entrusted with the management of spatial data, as well as natural or legal persons using data and services covered by the NIP and providing public services on the basis of these data. NIP entities shall be obliged to prepare data, target data and data systems and to take care of their updated data. It is important to stress that if they do not worry about updating the data and do not do what is required by the law proposal, sanctions are also prescribed and it is an important element because, of course, this whole system does not make any sense if it is continuously and constantly not working and if all those involved in such a system do not worry about the functioning and up-to-date of the system. The law also prescribes spatial data themes, and I will not read them, of course. You've all seen but the fact that there are all of them, there are 35 of them just confirms everything the minister said in the explanation, so it's about data that includes almost a complete diapazon of all the activities of citizens, institutions and states because each of the almost data is connected to the space in some way. The NIP data shall be accessed through the NIP geoportals, which shall be a web site with which it is possible to find, view, download, transform and other NIP data services. and this geoportal will establish, maintain and develop a national contact point, i.e. the State Geodetic Administration whose director is also sitting here with us. The state geodetic administration, otherwise, in several important laws that were before us, either in the process, or in reforms that are yet to follow us, plays an important role, and it is indeed one of our institutions that is likely to require the reverse process of most of them, in that regard, of the general reform of the state administration, and that is probably an additional number of qualified experts, and an additional increase in capacity precisely because it carries several very important processes that are ongoing or are just ahead of us. What is also important to emphasise is that NIP entities are required to enter and regularly maintain target data for spatial data sources under their jurisdiction through geoportals. Second, the entities are obliged to provide links between different data sources relating to the same location. This is a very important element because the whole meaning of a system like this is that the different data we have are connected with and that all users are clearly available as such in their whole is therefore connected to a meaningful whole. The law stipulates that network services must also be easy to use publicly and easily available. These are principles that always seem self-conceived to us, but unfortunately they are still not, and that is why it is good for the law to make them so explicit. What is particularly important is that network services find the source of spatial data, display of the content of the meta-data and review of the content are used without compensation and that this is clearly and loudly written in law so that we will never have any confusion about it. And what I want in the end, and I will end with this, in particular, stress, this system and this bill do not require any additional funding in the Republic of Croatia's budget. but what is even more important and we are absolutely certain is that, on a medium and long deadline, the establishment of such a system will also allow significant savings of money both public and private through transparency and rational business. So this is an important and good bill. The information will be available, transparent, easily usable and that is exactly what we need and therefore the HNS will be happy to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37921	Thank you, too. It is the SDP Club of Croatia and the respected representative Vedran Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37922	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on national spatial data infrastructure with the Final Proposal for a Law. We all know what problems are related to availability, quality, organisation of availability, sharing of spatial data which form the basis or one of the legal bases that build new or added values for a simple reason because they are at a time of the same or similar. The spatial data are collected and maintained at several different addresses in the state administration system indicated the need for this system to be regulated by the Law on national spatial data infrastructure. In accordance with Article 2 of the proposal for a law, national infrastructure data and a set of technologies, measures, norms, implementing rules, services, human capacities and other factors which allow the effective integration, management and maintenance of the sharing of spatial data set out in this law for the purpose of meeting the needs at national and European level and which will be an integral part of the European infrastructure, spatial data defined by INSPIRE Directive. The national spatial data infrastructure also includes sources of spatial data, system... data, services and networking technologies, implementing rules, sharing, exchange, access and use of spatial data, conditions of use, coordination and control mechanisms, processes and procedures, the geo portal of NIPI and human capacities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provisions of the Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Catastrophe also regulates the Croatian national infrastructure of spatial data and this Law defines the basic principles and processes in the field. As part of the activities in closing accession negotiations with the European Union in... 27 environments for the purpose of improving and adapting to the requirements arising from Directive 2007/2/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the infrastructure of spatial information in the European Community have created the conditions for the adoption of the Law on national spatial data infrastructure in accordance with which access, sharing, use and updating of spatial data on the principles of transparency, proportionality, economics and accessibility are ensured. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the previous period of application of the NIP, the State Geodetic Authority has proved to be the primary holder of the activity and application of the existing law in part in accordance with that Directive, but certain deficiencies have also been identified in terms of jurisdiction over data and the need for its establishment has arisen. The basic problems we face when searching for spatial data that will be regulated by this law are the following. Waste of time and resources in search of the same and, in particular, spatial plans, a wide variety of formats and models with spatial data being stored and available prevents effective implementation of surveillance, design, review, transformation and download of spatial data, establishment of a quality network, services to share spatial data between different public authorities. And finally successful implementation of spatial data infrastructure in a way that makes the fewer services available to the public free of charge. In addition to those problems which will be regulated by the adoption of the National Data Infrastructure Act, coordination with the legal acquis of the European Union in the area of infrastructure will be carried out and will allow for a simpler review and takeover of them. It will also increase the efficiency of the state administration, which is directly and indirectly linked to spatial data and will only be financed at this level and the distribution of data that are invalid will be prevented. As a result, I am already, because of the positive effects mentioned earlier, which will come from the quality structure of the national spatial data infrastructure, the SDP Club will support the final proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37923	Thank you, Your Honor. It is next to the Croatian Democratic Community Club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37924	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear Madam Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of the Law on national spatial data infrastructure should be welcomed not only because it fulfils one of the obligations set out in the European Directive, which is why we are harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the European Union, but primarily because we are adopting... the construction of a system of spatial data records in the Republic of Croatia, which is why this law was practically passed and in its essence is based on the basic law on the state measurement and the real estate cataster that this Parliament adopted in 2007. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, just a little bit about the law... As the Minister said, it is a technical law governing and collecting processing, the issue of the collection and use of the distribution of spatial data created by public authorities bodies and all public authorities in order to effectively use these resources both within the state administration system and effective support for the economy and citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The quality of the spatial data records shall increase the value of the spatial data used and the space that these data are talking about, whether it is about environmental protection and nature, whether it is about spatial planning and construction, defence and internal affairs, or for example. which is now very relevant to the activities of protection and rescue. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that this law is a practical continuation of a series of activities that have been initiated before by the Government and which were related to the settlement of the situation in the area, which practically began by the Law on State Measurement and the Catastra Real Estates of 1999, on the basis of which the Law adopted a programme of land catastra. And what program was prescribed to create topographic maps, register spatial units, digital and orthophoto cards without which we can practically not even imagine using data when we talk about land or space. Furthermore, it should also be said that the State Measurement Act and the 2007 Real Estate Cataster already in one particular chapter prescribed the establishment of a national infrastructure of spatial units, almost at a time when the European Commission adopted, or the European Union, a directive to which the INSPIRE Directive is laid down. So almost the law was passed even before the directive itself, and on that trail we were practically the first in the region, the only one of the countries in Europe that had already transposed the provisions adopted by INSPIRE at that time in its national legislation. As for that, therefore, we would not, in the Croatian Democratic Community Club, have significant objections to this law. Perhaps they were important, should mention important remarks about what this law does not contain. I also spoke to the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction so that it would be better if the proposer in this law had set deadlines in which the national infrastructure of spatial data would be established, the deadlines in which it would function fully, the deadlines in which the State Geodetic Administration would fulfil those obligations prescribed by this law. At that time, I was told by a representative of the State Geodetic Authority that there was no need to contain such a deadline, as it relied on an INSPIRE directive in which these deadlines were prescribed. However, it should at least be referred to those deadlines that we have missed, in which we are late compared to the said directive, because it is already clear that some of the deadlines that we should have already made have been missed and that we do not agree in that part with the said directive, the more certain Member States of the European Union have paid fines due to delays in the implementation of the directive itself. In fact, we must say that there are already significant records in the Republic of Croatia that have been established when it comes to the national infrastructure of spatial data, that, for example, only this Parliament in the past 7-8 months has already discussed two very demanding, very extensive reports that define the situation in the Republic of Croatia. 7 or 8 months ago, we discussed a state of affairs report in space, and a month ago we also discussed it, or 7-8 months ago, we discussed a report on the state of the environment, and a month ago a report on the state of the space. If we have indeed such significant data as are collected by a number of state institutions, the Institute, it seems to me that we are on the basis of the knowledge we have from these reports and on the basis of the knowledge of what and to what extent they possess the records of a particular state institution. It seems to me that at least in reason, if we haven't already appreciated the need to mention it in this normative part of the law, we should set deadlines within which this European directive will not be fully implemented in national legislation, because that is where we will probably do tomorrow when we adopt this law but rather do so in the times ahead, which is a very demanding job of collecting, processing, coordinating and equating all the data that this law itself prescribes. And the other thing that seems to me to have been missed and that would in any case be a good basis for making this law, which is a strategy of how and how we will implement this law, how this law will behave, how it will act, in which hundreds of bodies of any state administration, any local self-government, any different institutes, any different bodies that possess this kind of data. We believe that a procedural procedure should be established which would be defined by the strategy itself as to how these numerous bodies of local self-government and regional self-government, ministries, etc., public enterprises and all those bodies in Croatia that possess certain data, which are necessary for the establishment of such significant, large, extensive, extensive, necessary national spatial data infrastructures. It seems to us, therefore, that it would be good if, before the law itself, we had developed a clear one strategy for the establishment of the national infrastructure of spatial data. And since this law practically puts an extra chapter out of effect in the existing Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, it goes further with certain articles in relation to the existing law, and we have not established with this law what is very important for us in the HDZ Club, and these are the deadlines until which this national infrastructure will be established on the one hand and on the other hand the strategy that this law will be implemented. It seems to us that it was not necessary then to go with the law by an urgent procedure, that we could have these two questions that we could have answered and only then go with the law I have to say, I already know by which time I repeated in this assembly that I was sorry that the government and the resolution ministry had changed the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings in the part in which it refers to the allocation of funds for the retention of illegally built buildings in the area gave up redistribution in favour of the State Geodesy Administration or in favour of the Resolute Ministry, which would have been easier to establish a whole new system of geodetic measurement and cataracts, but on the other hand, these funds would have been made available in the national geodetic administration which is the national contact point for the implementation of this law would have been easier to establish a whole new system of geodetic measurement and cataractreal property, but on the other side of the national data. As I sublime it, we will support the law, this is a technical law, we are obliged to fully implement it, i.e. we are obliged to fully implement a European directive establishing this national infrastructure of spatial data, but we have these three important remarks. The first refers to the deadlines for establishing what I think we are based on all of the knowledge held by the Ministry, and in this context I mentioned two very important large, extensive reports on the state of the environment and the state of the space, and then on the basis of all of the knowledge available to the Ministry we could define the deadlines, that we also seem to at least in reason to refer to what the Croatian State is late in implementing the INSPIRE Directive and then the question is what we will do with the deadlines. Because I say that some countries have paid the fine because they have not implemented and developed the national infrastructure of spatial data within the deadlines prescribed by this Directive. So that's one point. The second concerns the creation of a strategy that we should have prescribed for us the process of establishing this national infrastructure and, moreover, the behaviour of individual data-owned bodies and which would have given way to the State Geodetic Authority in order to form this national infrastructure. Thirdly, we regret that through one process of legalising illegally built buildings in the Republic of Croatia, we were able to provide significant resources and, as originally provided by law and provided for by the State Geodetic Authority as a national contact point, which would then more quickly implement the state programme of measurement, cadastrian measurements and establish new land books and enable the establishment of a new land book. I often say that when we make all possible digitisation in Croatia, when we digitise the entire catastrian system, when we make very fast data from the Earth Book that we in the Republic of Croatia will have bad data still only quickly available. And it seems to me that a real policy that will make good data quickly available, and the quickness of bad data has not yet been completed by that task that should be fulfilled as a well-established state. Let me conclude, given that the law is primarily technical, that we are carrying out one obligation that we have accepted in part of the pre-accession negotiations, that we are obliged to comply with the EU and in the section relating to the establishment of the national spatial data infrastructure. We will support this law at the Croatian Democratic Community club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37925	Thank you, too. The Minister's closing statement, the Honorable Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37926	Thank you very much. So, let me finally repeat all those thoughts that were said here. It is a law that we actually fulfil our obligations under the INSPIRE Directive. It's about one technical law and it's about one law that allows this big project that we're going to, which is a project to improve space and create preconditions for further activities and we end it. What I would like to do with Mr. Bačić's respected representative repeats and probably what he received from the committees, and that is that the INSPIRE directive has defined deadlines and that was why deadlines are not in the law. Likewise, I would like to do so in front of this respected home and point out that the metadata editor who is the basis for the implementation of this law is ready and 1.7 there is no single reason why he is not in office at our point of contact, and that is the State Geodetic Administration. So he's ready, he's made and with 1.7 he's going to be in office so that this fear that we're going to pay certain penalties like he's paid Austria in that way avoided. And the third thing that always passes, which is the law on dealing with illegally built buildings. 50% of the compensation goes to the state. From this fee comes part of the funds for both the cadastrian measurement and we are already part of the funds that came into the ministry passed to the State Geodetic Authority for certain measurements for the critical points that we have in the space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37927	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 319. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'm asking the Deputy Secretary to be seen. Amendment No. Article 4 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37929	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37930	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final text. Amendment No. 2. of Article 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37931	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37932	Is that what it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37933	All amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37934	Thank you very much. They become an integral part of the final bill. So, Amendment No. One, two and three. The Legislative Committee. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 103 votes for the adopted Law on national spatial data infrastructure in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. We move to the next item of the agenda, the debate - Final proposal for a law amending the Consumer Protection Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 315. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yes, Deputy Minister of Honor Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37936	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. Since Croatia is entering the EU, the process of previous ratification has begun, i.e. by delivering to the European Commission a list of all Croatian rules which have been transposed in national legislation by EU directives at the time of the accession of the Republic of Croatia. The process of previous ratification has established that further harmonisation of the Consumer Protection Act with the Directive on Court Orders for the Protection of Consumer Interest, i.e. with its Annex, which contains a list of directives for infringements which can be initiated in order to protect the collective interests of consumers. The applicable Consumer Protection Act provides for a procedure for the protection of the collective interests of consumers being brought before the Commercial Court in the event that individual consumer rights are violated by the Consumer Protection Act as well as other regulations taxed in the Consumer Protection Act, which are the Law on Mandatory Relations in the section relating to liability for material disadvantages and guarantee of the correctness of the goods sold, as well as to the contract on travel organisation. Then, the Law on Electronic Trade, the Law on Electronic Media in the section relating to audio-visual media service, the Law on Medicinal Products, and the Regulation on how to advertise and notify medicines, homeopathic and medical products. In order to comply with the Court Orders Directive, it was necessary to fully protect the Consumer Law to add the possibility to initiate this procedure in order to violate the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act and the Services Act. Although the Institute of collective consumer protection is one of the more complex procedures to protect consumer rights, its effects are very effective, since the verdict against a particular trader or a group of traders in favour of one consumer protects all consumers from inappropriate activity and imposes a ban on all traders on all consumers on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37937	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? Yeah. Here is Honored Representative Furio Radin, Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Here's your Honorable representative, Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37938	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Human Rights Committee considered the final proposal for this law as an interested working body. In the debate, the Committee members specifically pointed out the ambiguity of the proposed amendments in Article 3 of the final draft law amending Article 145(1) of the Rules of Procedure. According to the final draft of the law, the provision after the change would read: "The information on the product notice is not clear, visible and legible and unless it is written in Croatian and Latin letters or in some other language, signs, symbols or pictograms to easily understood consumers." This amendment was explained by the applicant that the Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act of June 2009 Article 75(5) of the transitional and final provisions stipulated that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union would cease to apply the preceding provision of the article of the applicable law. Since the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Consumers of July 2012 amended the 145th paragraph of the current law, the Proposer points out that this proposal necessarily complies with those amendments. In other words, the previous law has written in Croatian or some other language, and now for the sake of negotiations with the EU, I am trying to explain things, they will write in Croatian and Latin letters. It used to say "pardon" in Croatian and Latin and some other language, and now it's translated into or. Which, of course, caused a mistake. Because Croatian must be to give information to all those who use it, and many do not know foreign languages. This or that it has confused this change that appears to have taken place because of negotiations with the EU. Of course, there is work or other language easily understood by those who know Croatian. This amendment was explained by the applicant, however, by the board members, that in the proposed text of Article 145(1) of subparagraph 12, it is not clear which second language is easy to understand for the consumer in the Republic of Croatia, which is an alternative to the Croatian language, especially in the light of all the official EU languages. In addition, by entering the EU, the Croatian language becomes one of the official languages of the EU, and this is previously an incomprehensible motive for the proposed change. The opinion is also expressed that the proposed provision is contrary to Article 12(1) of the Croatian Constitution, which says that in the Republic of Croatia there is an official use of the Croatian language and a Latin letter. It is therefore proposed to remain in force with the current provision, which reads: "Data on the product notice are not clear and visible, readable and if they are not written in Croatian and Latin letters or with signs of pictograms easily understood to the consumer. Which does not exclude the possibility of using other languages." So, what was before. Since an amendment to the final draft law is proposed, it is only a harmonisation to Article 75. The law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, which is not subject to the amendment of this law, has therefore been proposed that it is not possible to submit an amendment to this article as it has not been made to those amendments. And it is proposed that the Proposer resolve this issue by its amendment to Article 75, which the committee's representative agreed on, but then there were some difficulties that the Proposer himself will explain and which, of course, we take into account, but this is not for us to say which complications the day after. Of course, it is about negotiations with the EU. In this regard, Article 75, which also suggests amending this final draft of the law, states that the provisions of Article 17 of Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia, as follows: "The data referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article must be clear, visible, legible and written in Croatian and Latin or other language, signs, symbols and pictograms to an easily understood consumer." By all accounts, that provision will remain at the end, as I'm told. This change in the language of the proposings doesn't matter. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly, so it was unanimous but with that supplement, to adopt the Law amending the Consumer Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37939	Thank you, Your Honor. Are the presidents of other working bodies? Yeah. Oh, no? Nothing, we're opening a debate. I don't have a report for the hearing. Do I? And where are these? Okay. We have representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of HNS Representatives and the Honorable Representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37940	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and deputies, deputy deputy deputy minister with associates. Consumer protection is certainly and without a doubt one of the key values that in the EU have a great strength and a very important place and it is good for the Republic of Croatia to enter the community of countries whose citizens as consumers enjoy the best protection in the world on July 1st and realistically and realistically in real life. These changes ahead of us are part of our adjustment process to these really high standards and the key subject of change in this case is the Institute of collective consumer protection. It is, as it says in the explanation, but it seems important to point out that it is a complex institute but extremely effective because in such a case a verdict against a particular trader or a group of traders for the benefit of a consumer is automatically protected by all consumers, and all traders are ordered to ban harmful action against all consumers at least in theory, and we hope that this will naturally come to life as soon as possible and in practice. This proposal, which is in line with the relevant EU directive, is therefore in the list of laws in the case of which a procedure for the protection of consumer collective interests can be initiated and the Consumer Credit Act and the Service Act. And it is important that these two new laws are introduced into the whole story because some recent experiences of a whole series of Croatian citizens confirm that there may also be a breach of the collective interests of consumers in these segments. However, what I really want to point out and what I want to say in the conclusion of this extremely short debate is that we have an important and big step in not informing, but rather education of Croatian citizens on their rights and on our common rights as consumers. It is not enough just to inform people, we really must all be educated together in that all of our rights in this sphere of consumer protection, because I am sure that we are all together here and all the other citizens of the Republic are exposed to the constant possible violations of our rights primarily because we are not even aware of what our rights are and we are not even aware that these rights are being violated. Therefore, the key requirement, other than the continued harmonisation of legislation and the improvement of legislation, is education, not only information but the education of citizens and citizens on the protection of their own rights. Here, so much for that proposal is small, and then the debate is short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37941	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is up to the SDP club and the respected representative Mario Moharic. Here's my colleague Mario.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37942	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues in this legislative proposal are in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. The common feature of all modern democratic states is the protection of economically weak parties in business transactions on the market, and therefore consumer protection laws in those countries are protected by natural persons. Consumers when buying products and services on the market for personal or family needs. In this connection, it can be said that consumer protection is a civil property of developed democracies, regulated markets and a system of values in constant development. It is indisputable that consumer protection is a public interest. Due to the arrangements of this important area, the first Consumer Protection Act was adopted in 2003, which was launched by the Republic of Croatia in order to ensure adequate protection for all citizens and consumers of their rights and interests in the purchase of goods and services for personal use. Consumer protection is a legal area dealing with the protection of citizens' fundamental rights in the role of consumers when buying products and services as well as other forms of acquisition of products and services on the market. Consumer rights are regulated by legal provisions through the regulation of fair competition. The laws are designed to prevent companies participating in fraud or unfair practices because of their advantage over competition. Legal and institutional frameworks have been set up in the Republic of Croatia and a consumer protection system has been developed in accordance with EU rules and standards. The Law on the Protection of Consumers from July 2007 as its amendments and additions from June 2009 and July 2012 continued to comply with the EU acquis in this area. Consumer protection in the EU is an extremely dynamic area, resulting in frequent changes and additions to existing rules as well as the adoption of new ones and their transposition into national legislation. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has initiated a procedure for prior notification or delivery to the European Commission of a list of all Croatian rules transposing national legislation with EU directives in force at the time of accession of the Republic of Croatia. As the deadline for the adoption of the rules to be notified to the European Commission by 1 July 2013, the first quarter of 2013 is therefore justified by the urgent procedure for the adoption of this law. In the previous notification procedure, it was found necessary to comply with the Consumer Protection Act with Directive 2009/22. 2009 on court orders for the protection of consumer interests in the section relating to the list of regulations for infringements which can be initiated in order to protect consumer collective interests. Although the Institute of collective consumer protection, one of the more complex consumer rights procedures, its effects are very effective since the verdict against a particular trader or a group of traders in favour of a single consumer protects all consumers, and all traders are ordered to prohibit such action against all consumers on the market. This procedure can only be initiated for infringement of certain provisions of the Consumer Protection Act and of the rules set out in Article 131(1) of the applicable law in which Directives in the field of consumer protection have been transposed in accordance with Directive 2009/22. 2009 In order to comply with the Court Orders Directive, it is necessary to fully implement the relevant amendments to the Consumer Protection Act in such a way as to add the Consumer Credit Act and the Service Act to the regulations referred to in Article 131(1) of the applicable law. Therefore, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37943	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Đuro Popijač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37944	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Assistant. So here is another law which is technical harmonisation with the acquis of the EU, with certain directives, all of which is already being said today and we see that one of the main changes is being done precisely in this area of the protection of consumer collective interests when proceedings are being initiated against persons whose conduct is contrary to certain articles and this law and a number of other laws are being added which will also be the subject of consumer protection activities. And another article that has actually been mentioned, which opens up certain questions and requires interpretation of clarifications or requests, in fact, to be precise and determined. It's not clear from what motive and why it is. This is, of course, part of Article 145, part of the law on criminal measures, paragraph 1 of subparagraph 12, which states that information on production notices is not clear, visible, legible and is not written in Croatian and Latin letters or in some other language easily understood to the consumer. Earlier, the possibility of it being a Croatian language and then the possibility that some other languages might appear in these declarations. We naturally witness it every day when we go to the store. We see that we buy products practically produced anywhere in the EU and have various declarations, information, instructions in various languages. And as a rule, now it is always the flag of Croatia where you can read the instructions, of course, the declaration in Croatian. Does this really mean that it will no longer have to be on a product sold in Croatian shops? And why would that be, if it had to be Hungarian, Polish, Czech, English I don't know Spanish, Italian, German that all languages on these goods exist. Now we read here that more Croatian languages in Croatian shops on products sold on shelves won't have to be. Why is that? What's the condition? And I definitely claim that no European regulations are required, of course, and that it is possible now that there will be no obligation on these products to notify the declarations or whatever the product needs to be. It won't be, it won't have to be written in Croatian, and it's actually a fundamental observation, and here we see that the Human Rights Committee has reacted and we expect an explanation and we expect a correction of course if this is a mistake and the government is just learning it. Otherwise, of course, there is no reason not to accept this law, but it is really necessary to explain why this happened and what will happen to products that will come from imports and which will ultimately not have Croatian inscriptions and all that has been said before. So here's this fence to see what's actually going to happen. I don't think there's any reason why this law can't be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37945	Thank you, too. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Assembly and distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37946	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues, so here I am signing all of this which has been said before. I really hope that today we will get an answer on behalf of the promoter, or from you who are here why this part is changing and what I would use and as regards consumer rights is mentioned that we have not yet won the national consumer protection programme since 2013-2016. We fall again on the same mistakes, harmonize legislation with the EU, argue that we care about consumer rights. When we adopted a national consumer protection programme since 2009 2012, it was then discussed in 2010 with the whole year of delays. It was brought in the way it was brought in. We have not yet had the results of the implementation of this national consumer strategy in April 2013 to call it that and we have not adopted the National Consumer Protection Programme here since 2016 and we should have started to change it since 1.1.2013. So that's the first question I ask the answer to. The next thing I want to point out is that our foreign minister and first Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Vesna Pusic, said that consumer protection is Croatia's fourth priority by joining the EU. So a very important question. And how important this issue is, and how much in our government, is synchronised and what are the priorities of the Government, not only of individual ministers and ministries, but also of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion on the 4th of June 2012 which accepted an analysis of the justification of the continued existence of a large number of occasional, professional and advisory bodies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and on the date of 4th of June 2012, so we had a total of 155 such advisory, occasional and expert bodies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, by a decision of the Government of 33 votes, adopted the conclusion that 46 such bodies were abolished in order to reduce the costs and that 27 such bodies from the authority of the Government had just come down over the jurisdiction of the resolution ministries, and all the relevant ministries had been tasked, therefore, within two months from October 2012, within two months, to adopt the laws that these resolution ministries had been adopted. Since we have a National Consumer Protection Council, the council that should be very concerned about how consumer rights are protected in the Republic of Croatia. it was the advice or is still the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, however, this government decision descends on the advisory body of the Ministry of Economy. And given everything that is happening to us in Croatia, given the rights that citizens are increasingly losing every day, i.e. more and more, I am afraid that this downsizing of the status of the National Consumer Protection Council at the level of the resolution ministry will cause a lot of, a lot of additional problems. Here we were two days ago witnessing a very, very ugly and agonizing family that was carried out at 6 a.m. The question is, what are these people's rights in the first place, and these people are being delegated because of some of their rights? We are also witnessing a court case against banks from the Croatian Union of Consumer Protection Associations and the Franak Association, so we are witnessing daily consumer rights violations, and as long as we witness all of this again institutions that should defend these same consumers, we are bringing down and down to the lower level to the resolution ministries where again these resolution ministries dictate some of their own rules. I think that if we have declared ourselves declared that we are to protect consumers that we are to comply with European rules, and we are also aware that Europe that we are entering 1.7 is certainly taking care of its consumers that we should then be on the trail of the same thinking, on the same practice, and that we should really protect these consumers in the way they are protected in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37947	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. It's the honorary representative of Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37948	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's gonna take a lot shorter. I reacted as I read this law yesterday to Article 3rd paragraph 145, paragraph 1 of the 12th, which my predecessors suggested, and now this is what the chairman of the board presented as a topic of their meeting and after him, or shortly afterwards, Mr. Poiè spoke of it, with the expectations that this would be corrected, however, I have the impression from this fact that there is no intention to change this text that is before us. I ask the question I think with full right, who gave it to you for the right, who gave it to himself if Croatia becomes an official language by entering the EU to give it up on the territory of the Republic of Croatia? I understand what may be the motive that is likely with a similar language will be covered by a broader market which about everyone understands. I don't know who to talk to like this? Does it make sense? Yes, thank you very much, but I'd like to hear the answer after that to the deputy and I'm afraid she won't hear [[/Intruder: To us and to the citizens. And we're worth it.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Here is the deputy minister who listens carefully and writes.]] I'm interested in who gave her the right, whose right is it to give up Croatian language in the territory of the Republic of Croatia? if it becomes a Croatian official language in the EU, why do we give it up? I understand that the market is almost the whole of the former Yugoslavia, the Croats, or the population of the Republic of Croatia, are one small part, and this will solve the language problem on the whole territory, but the fact is that we are the first to join the EU. This is what we're talking about in the EU market. Isn't it normal then to write in one of the EU languages, and all this other stuff that will be covered with these same products understands that language. I don't know why we are, who took it for the right to make that concession and who? I hope I get an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37949	Thank you, too. The next representative is the esteemed representative Furio Radin and his 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37950	Yeah, I'll be much shorter because this topic is actually a lot more likely to cause polemics in which we're going to manage the effect more and more with emotions than with reason. Let's go a little bit, get back to the board's opinion, and then I'll say my opinion afterwards. So the Committee's opinion is that it should go, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, that one should go with an amendment that allows the next solution, to make the product an original guide, an original instruction, and, on the other hand, to be directed in Croatian and in foreign languages. On the other hand, this solution, which has been agreed with the EU, has long been agreed with the European Union, says that they should actually be applied, that the instructions in Croatian or in one easy, Croatian language should be applied. Because you realize now that if we think carefully about this problem that it becomes one problem that can have any kind of political indication, the signs that bring us back here and the controversy that has taken place here in Parliament. Whether someone who speaks Serbian because it is easy to understand the language of the Croats can be Serbian, can be Bosnian, can be Montenegrin, yes, the polemics were led here where a representative spoke a little of the language which, by way of the syntax, is more than on the equatics or equatics that exist, because there is also an Ekavica here in Zagreb, the syntax may have been close to the Serbian language immediately caused by a certain storm of jell'da. So that right here in these areas, such issues are essential political issues. That is why, since they are essential political issues, they may not be politicised because there is already much politicised by these relations in Croatia today and something new is happening every day. It was better that when it was agreed a few years ago, right, a year and a half, two years ago, that thought was meant to be. And when you think about it, then you say better apriori, preventively affirm the language that is official. And it's a Croatian language, then no one's going to ask that question. This has not happened because this battle is either not being fought or the European Union has applied its recipe. And today we're going to have a fight about it. You'll see. Why would they be too slow? Because the issue of language in Croatia is a political issue in both Serbia and everywhere in these areas. Now that it is said why we who are entering the European Union should not say, the European Union, we are now at your home, let the Croatian language be the one who will again be under quotes "insulated by others". And I guarantee you that what is going to be imposed is the reasons for the economic, economic, if that product goes all over the area, the language that is closer to most of the population in this area will be imposed. That is and that is, Europe will be managed, or the world will be managed by this problem. So let's think about whether we want to create one Croatia in which it will be less and less, and more and more of the languages spoken, including minority languages, if these languages are understandable. What matters to me is that in a particular area, what it says is information. And so I totally understand, I totally understand that those who don't live in that our, emotionally don't live in this world here where it's so important whether it's going to be one or the other, I understand that they're handling economic reasons. On the other hand, the information says, it shows how much he, giving the features, gives the facts about the product. If these facts are directly understandable to the consumer, that is the message that must be sent. That's why I'm giving you another one. And indeed if we want to create a world of tolerance, normality, etc. I shouldn't mind that, but I leave the decision, of course, I leave that decision to the government itself. And in the end I'd like to, I'd like to say next. When we have an original and Croatian, or one translation in another easily understood language, when we have these two instructions, we should actually achieve that the instructions in Croatian do not cover the original instruction, because the original instruction often gives very much information than they are given in the Croatian language which gives a summary. And since the goal is for the consumer to have as much information as possible to understand it then it would be good for those two to be separated on the product. So separate and easily understood language. But I am aware that this problem will cause a political struggle because everything about language here has always had such a destiny. But the best thing to do is, we'd better make a deal here, make a deal and eventually find one solution acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37951	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas on your exhibit. The first is the replica of the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37952	Thank you, Mr. President, today I understand why both the HDZ and the SDP Government rejected our Law on the Official Use of Croatian Language. In order not to be officially used in Croatia. And good. A colleague said this topic would be discussed in the effects and emotions. I do not discuss in this House either in effect or with emotions, especially when I speak at the place where both Mažuranić and Radić spoke and where they spoke people who introduced Croatian language into this country. If the products sold in Croatia do not stand for Croatian instructions but for instructions in a language that we all understand. I wonder if it's a Serbian-Croatian or Croatian-Serbian which I both understand nicely, is that Slovenian, which I also understand as Croatian, is that Macedonian which I also understand as Croatian, is that English that I also know as Croatian? What language is that? What's this about? It is not possible to make a decision in the Croatian Parliament in 2013 to reflect the fact that the European Union has accepted Croatian language as an official language and that we do not care what is happening in Croatia. I can't believe this House is gonna make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37953	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37954	Thank you very much, President. Comrade Radin, you said earlier that we were disturbed in this House, not all but individual, speech in dialects, speech in minority languages. No, I absolutely don't mind, even the more I talk to you after all, even inside of us we have some let's say language irregularities so no one takes it for evil and that's the last thing that would bother me. The thing is, if we don't hold on to ours, why should we hold on to someone else? If we do not stick to Croatian, to Croatian customs, to Croatian I do not know what, culture, whatever you want, history, why expect someone else to hold it. It doesn't make sense to me that someone else will. I don't deny it. I don't dispute the rights of any other minority or any other minority. I absolutely give them the right to everything within normal, but it's not normal for us to give up something that's ours and it's not caused by anything. This is, I don't know what to call it, this is for my concept of embarrassing, very embarrassing. Somebody convince me this isn't a shameful move, but this is a really embarrassing move for us to give up. Nor did any of us ask for it, I don't think this was exactly such an ultimate attitude. Yes, and why is the Croatian language recognised in Europe? Please don't. You talked about another segment, about insertion, through products will be imposed. It's not about imposing, it's just about protecting our interests. It is not about imposing, there is no dispute if in one can, in one notebook if there is room for a Croatian language that there is no room for Serbian or I do not know which other language. It's no obstacle, and it won't be anyone who finds an interest in selling something on this market to each other, I mean united, it won't be prevented by those 4-5 letters, 15 letters, half a cm of text in one language and another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37955	Thank you, too. Replication response, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37956	Thank you very much. Now, let's get in response to these replicas to come up with a possible solution. I fully agree with what Mr Vuljanić and Mr Novak have said, and I agree that the Croatian language must be the one in which the instructions on the product should be written. The solution that could be in this case is that it is clear to your amendment, to make it clear in the law to write with where the government bilingualism is listed and the language of that minority in that area. And that might solve a lot of things, and we could make it easier to face the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37957	We will not suppress Croatian for sure We don't stick it in. ... [[Intruder: How?]] Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you represent the motionary, yes. Deputy Minister Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37958	Thank you very much, President. Listening to this debate one little reminder. June 2009, amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act, the same sentence stands, June 2009. This Parliament has adopted a decision on the Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act that has ceased..., etc., Article 75 This has been negotiated with the European Commission in 2009, and this statement does not exclude Croatian language, and it is common for consumers in the regulations of the legal property of the European Union. [[Break president: Change.]] Likewise, the provisions on language in the Consumer Protection Act are in line as I have already said with the acquis during the negotiations. The Consumer Protection Act prescribes general provisions, while laws in other areas specifically prescribe the content and labelling of products. So, for example. medicines, food, chemicals have specific provisions on where the Croatian language is required and these labelling regulations apply as lex specialis, as a special law. Also today, it is said in the European Union that consumers are more protected than in the Republic of Croatia. The promotion of these directives shows what is known to everyone, Croatia is fully in line with European law, we follow the directives, we put them into Croatian legislation. I can also freely say that Croatia has the same rights with this legislation for consumers in Croatia as the European Union. What is extremely good is that a new directive is expected in which the Croatian government is working together with the Consumer Rights Commission, which is expected by the end of the year, so another amendment and addition of this law will be held. As consumer protection in the European Union rises to a higher level of the same directive, they are implemented in Croatian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37959	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. A replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic has been reported to your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37960	We here in the Croatian Parliament are very fond of calling on the EU when it suits us, and when we see that something has not been aligned with the EU, then it is usually silenced. I've talked here several times in the Parliament about that she was completely parliamentarians being presented with one deception, which is that in Europe there is no example of a zero rate which is a lie. It's got zero rates. And now it's said the same in this place you said it was a European practice. You know that the Croatian Radio-Television Act states that Croatian Radio-Television must at least broadcast programmes in Croatian 20%. How do you think this little language will be preserved? Here is what I am setting up for the president of the Croatian Parliament who has said the unruly Croatian language. We wake up, we wake up, and we suppress him every day. 20% of Croatian languages on Croatian radio television, they say in America as well. You don't say! That's the way it is in Britain. You don't say! Languages that flooded the world. So they can write that no one should speak English at all in the UK and America and everyone will speak English, and we here say that they are equal with the Croatian language European languages. So what is this equality? Then where are we? In Croatia, read the law and I've said it 10 times here in the Parliament, no one is anything, no one has mentioned that in our own country we don't protect language, so we also don't protect language in the declarations but we say so Croatian and similar languages are the same for you. It's not the same! Somebody really wants to make fools of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37961	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for replicas and reply to the replica. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 315. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. I ask the Deputy Minister of Economy of the Honorable Allen Leveric to be shown about the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, we can..
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37963	Thank you very much, President. Amendment 1 is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37964	Unacceptable?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37965	How about an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37967	The applicant does not accept that amendment, given that on the date of the entry into force of the Republic of Croatia, the EU in the Consumer Protection Act in Article 17(3) ceases to apply and paragraph 4 in the amended text becomes a sequel 3 as provided for in the transitional and final provisions of Article 75(1) of the Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37968	He's withdrawing the amendment. Thank you very much. Amendment number 2 to Article 5 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37969	Amendment 2 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37970	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. We have exhausted the amendments of the Legislative Committee. We now have Amendment number one. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37971	Amendments 1 to Article 3 shall not be accepted. We would like to point out that the law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act of June 2009 is a matter of product notification, which includes the use of language in such a way that the information contained in the Product Notice must be clear, visible and legible and written in Croatian and Latin letters, or signs and pictograms easily understood to the consumer, which does not exclude the possibility of simultaneous use of other languages. We point out that the Consumer Protection Act prescribes general provisions, while the specific rules for certain products sign the content, the way in which these products are marked. For example, medicines, food, toys, chemicals and the like where the Croatian language is required, and these regulations are applied as lex specialis in relation to the Consumer Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37972	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37973	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We suggest that the words "or some other language" be deleted behind the word "letter" in Article 3. For the reason that Croatia becomes a 28th member of the EU on 1 July 2013. The Croatian language also becomes the EU's 24th official language. and it is unacceptable for us to say in the final proposal on consumer protection that there may be some other language and not Croatian in the declarations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37974	Thank you very much. You're asking for a statement? Yeah. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. I'm opening a debate. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most 80 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention has been passed a law amending the Consumer Protection Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We're moving on to a new agenda. Discussion - Final proposal of the Mining Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 249. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes, Your Honor. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. These are Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies here at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy, Honored Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37976	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In order to increase competitiveness in the field of mining activity in the Republic of Croatia, and to create preconditions for the purpose and effective management of mineral raw materials, the Ministry of Economy has tried to correct certain irregularities, illogicalities and problems arising from the implementation of the current Mining Law adopted in 2009 and 2011 which we have seen ourselves, but which the European Commission has also pointed out as well as numerous mining operators which are particularly sensitive to the economic crisis, which, mainly in the construction activity, has been directly pictured by the mining activity in the Republic of Croatia. The mining activity in the areas of today's territory of the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition and has been going on since Roman times until today. The underground exploitation of mineral raw materials in the Republic of Croatia, which was quite strong in previous years, has practically disappeared and currently only architectural construction stone is exploited by underground means of exploitation while numerous surface copies of particularly non-metallic mineral raw materials are present in the Republic of Croatia. The mining activity in the Republic of Croatia is carried out by more than 350 companies and craftsmen with registered 8500 employees. However, if we add to the economic operators involved in the processing of mineral raw materials, then we have over 500 companies and more than 17,000 employees. The total number of mineral raw materials exploration sites in the Republic of Croatia is 203, including 13 hydrocarbon exploration spaces, of which the Republic of Croatia is the authority of 11 exploration spaces. The total number of mineral raw materials exploitation fields in the Republic of Croatia is 668 including 60 hydrocarbon exploitation fields. Of the total number of approved exploitation fields of technical building stone 274, architectural building stone 118 and building sand and gravel 94. Out of the total number of mineral raw materials exploitation fields in the Republic of Croatia, the largest number was approved in Split-Dalmatia County 91, Istria and Zadar County of 67, respectively, and over 33% of the total number of exploitation fields in the Republic of Croatia were approved in these three counties. Looking at the trend in the exploitation of non-energy mineral raw materials between 2005 and 2012 for three of the most significant non-energy mineral raw materials, the stagnation or minor increase of the established exploitation reserves during the observed period of time and the significant decline of unearthed quantities of mineral raw materials from 2009 to 2012. This final proposal for a mining law, with great support from all ministries and the State's Attorney's Office, removed these key problems of indifference in relation to the procedure for granting a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in such a way that it is clearly defined as one single procedure, while, in view of the limitations of certain legislation which has made it impossible to meet the mining economic operators' interest mainly in researching new mineral raw materials beds. It is very important here to point out that this final bill introduces it into the area of mining of a significant newspaper. A single procedure for the award of a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials consisting of 4 closely linked stages of the procedure for granting, for the selection of the most favourable bidder for the exploration of mineral raw materials, for the award of a concession for exploitation, for the granting of an authorisation for research, for the procedure for establishing an exploitation field according to the location permit issued by the competent authority for the spatial order and for the procedure for granting a concession for exploitation. One public tender for the authorisation of mineral raw materials research to grant concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. One word of security for the investor. More efficient control of the exploitation of the quantities of mineral raw materials and the payment of fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the insurance of cost recovery is prescribed for the recovery of space, the implementation of mining works in special situations and the adjustment of regulations for special cases, e.g. sea salt, building sand and gravel from the sea floor, storage of hydrocarbons and permanent disposal of gases in geological structures. The solutions proposed in this proposal of the Mining Act aim to address exactly all the shortcomings mentioned before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37977	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the workers' committee rapporteurs want to take part? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. The first is the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37978	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The law that is before us is in fact an improvement in the existing legal framework that has so far been in line with the legal acquis of the EU and the reasons for the adoption of this law are, in fact, lies in the knowledge of the Empirical on the shortcomings of the existing legal framework on all the difficulties and illogicalities faced by people who deal with and want to exploit mineral raw materials, i.e. mineral wealth. As the Vice-President said in the opening statement, one of the important newspapers in this law is to simplify the concession tender, this time a united tender awarding the research concession and then exploit the mineral wealth. What exactly is this about? It is a newspaper that increases legal certainty for investors and entrepreneurs, companies that are registered to carry out this activity and have the ambition to access the performance of this activity. The current legal framework envisioned separate procedures in which situations that actually fall within the sphere of absurdity occurred, in any case also in the area of bad business environment and legal uncertainty in these areas. Entrepreneurs and companies who had approached and obtained authorisation for investigative actions and preparation of the investigative documentation had very high costs provided for in the first stage of the investigation, and the herself allocation of the rights to exploit was based on a special public tender, which in practical terms meant that one company could have invested no small means of investigation, obtaining all necessary documents and permits in the first phase, making the necessary studies and then, in the second phase of the public tender, losing its job and experiencing no minor damage. A brief parallel, a very similar situation is in the current Law on Maritime Goods, which is also absurd because it is not certain that anyone who invests and invests in all preparatory documentation and solving property-legal relations on the legal good for the establishment of the port of nautical tourism, ports of special purpose, through a public tender loses and experience damage which is also very similar in this sphere to that situation, and therefore, because of such a situation and legal uncertainty, we have an abstinence from investments. Another newspaper, so now with this newspaper, we can conclude that a much clearer situation is being given for investing and taking actions in this economic sphere to future investors is to expect greater activity and much simpler and cheaper procedures. Another newspaper in this law that can be read is greater and better control of what is done in the fields of exploitation because I do not want to enter detailed judgments, however, so experiencedly when you look at the budget side of the local self-government units, so you see how many amounts are, how much fees and how much revenue are marked by the exploitation of mineral raw materials, then it is quite clear to you that these things do not understand. That control mechanisms are not adequate and that the revenues coming from that position are actually minor compared to what happens physically in nature in space when it comes to the exploitation of mineral raw materials. We therefore welcome in the HNS the obligation to submit every year reports of change in space, i.e. in quantities, and to be clearly seen each year through the control of how much quantitatively it has actually gotten out of the exploitation field. We also welcome the way in which the concession fee is charged, which in this decision gives a very large part of the income to local self-government units, and in this respect we can conclude that this law has its elements of decentralisation. Finally, there is another problem, I will refer to what happened in Dalmatia in particular, but also in other parts of Croatia when it comes to the exploitation of stone and other mineral resources and mineral raw materials. Very often so far, companies that have been authorised to perform, permission to investigate and conduct investigations but also companies that have been authorised to exploit have often left wounds in the area without real capacity to resuscitate the field of exploitation in accordance with the positive regulations and bring the situation into order. You have such holes in the area throughout Croatia, often seen and driven along the highway. You can also see them driving along the Adriatic highway. And the provision of this law, which requires a guarantee which ensures that the exploitation of the research field, or the field from which mineral wealth is extracted, is being remedied, and I personally as the builder of Sibenik, will be one of the biggest improvements in the legal framework because it is simply unacceptable that the thing that is very important, and that is the resolution of space after the work done, after the completion of the concession of the completed exploitation process will leave the case to the case and not provide the mechanisms for the safe recovery of space, which is, in any case, ecological, aesthetic, political, human as you wish, unacceptable and so far we have witnessed such practice. In any case, this law and the news that are embedded in it, which ensure better legal certainty and much clearer frameworks, much simpler procedure in future investors, i.e. entrepreneurs. A law that protects the interests of local self-government in every respect, which protects the interests of preserving space, and we at the HNS Club will support this law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37979	Thank you, too. We have a report of a respected colleague, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37980	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Baranovic, what I think about the Mining Act later, I will tell you, but in your presentation, you said that in one hand there is a meaningless provision in the Law on the Sea Good according to which a potential concessionaire on the maritime good if he wants to initiate a concession for the use of maritime goods, it seems to me that you have mentioned a port of nautical tourism, invests the costs of establishing borders, creating an idea project, etc. etc. and then he can't be left without those funds because no one guarantees him, because the law does not guarantee him that in the procedure of calling for concessions for maritime goods, that space could be obtained in concession and paid for by a concession to the state. I don't think you're right in that part or it would be good if you were right. Namely, then the competition would be pro-forme, if the one who performs all the necessary work to ensure that the existing maritime good concession space has the guarantee that only because of this fact, and even meets the most favourable conditions of the competition will be given maritime well-being. In fact, no one defends under the existing law that a truly natural or legal person who intends to report to a concession and maritime goods tender. That the costs incurred in the process of establishing the limits of the concession procedure on maritime goods, the costs incurred by the development of an idea project which was the basis for the establishment of a local authorisation, that the company and the natural or legal person receiving the concession in the tender process would be liable to that potential concessionary, that is, the natural and legal person who made certain costs in the procedure to himself must be compensated. Therefore, in that part of the Law on the Sea Goods, you must not and with, well know what a maritime good regime is that it is good for general use, no one should be able to guarantee that the costs incurred by it will later receive a concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37981	The replica matches Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37982	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, one truth is notorna, which is that in the past ten, fifteen years we have actually recorded very few investments in the ports of nautical tourism. And the fact is that what I'm talking about rejects investors, you know very well, you also know that covering maritime goods is in the context of the port of nautical tourism and that sea and that land part, and that is beyond the definition of the general definition of maritime goods and its border of 6 meters from the tide line and the axis of all the additional land part of the future maritime good port of nautical tourism, someone needs to be able to rule out. It would be much more logical if even in the Law of Maritime Goodness, which I hope will soon come to these premises in the Assembly, which has a lot of disadvantages in various contexts and you know it very well. The fact is that such an approach in which the process would be united would be much more practical and would give much more legal certainty and business security to potential investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37983	We continue with an individual debate, and I call upon the Honorable Djuru Popio to address us on behalf of the HD Club, I'm sorry. So it's not an individual debate but to continue the debate and the name of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37984	Thank you very much, Vice President, for correcting me, Mr. Deputy, fellow associates. So, before us is the final text of the Mining Act, it is certainly one of the most important laws especially for economic operators dealing with the exploitation and processing of mineral raw materials, but given the size and shape of business entities is certainly for society as a whole. In our first reading discussion, we stressed the importance of respecting what the profession and then the economy mean. According to the reactions we're getting, it's a profession and economy not to accept this bill. The law proposed continues to have numerous shortcomings that make it too abundant, and vague, anti-entrepreneurship and difficult to implement. When drawing up the final proposal of the Mining Act, only some of the comments from the debate were taken into account, but not the relevant remarks and opinion of the profession and the mining economy. The state of the mining economy of the non-metal industry, the construction material, that the law should be withdrawn because it is harmful to the economy, as it will result in further winding down business activities, by subtracting a mining concession with consequences of local self-government and the Republic of Croatia as a whole, with an imminent increase in the number of unemployed. There will be a confiscation of concessions for some companies that do not work for 180 days with the possibility that when the recovery markets continue to work. The aim of the law should, among other things, be to enable and attract new investments in the field of mineral raw materials research, and therefore also to change the model of competition with world practice and rules of profession. However, the fulfilment of this objective, i.e. the continuation of existing and the promotion of new investments, has been questioned by the way in which the regulation of property-legal relations on the existing and future concessions for the field of research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, which can ultimately lead to the suspension of the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia, means research into the exploitation of oil and gas. Some disputed provisions of this law, in the area of the resolution of property-legal relations as one of the key conditions for the outcome of concessions. The proposal for a law is one of the key preconditions for the exit or retention of existing permits for the implementation of mining works. Most of the land owned by the Republic of Croatia and land with unsettled land, which is not affected by the dynamics of the resolution of the investor. Following the above, in order to allow for the smooth continuation of mining work and the harmonisation of existing research approvals, exploitation with the provisions of the new law, it is necessary to define a minimum period of five years for the resolution of property legal relations and to simplify the process of entering the building permit only on the particles on which mining facilities are built. In view of this, we believe that the submission of a request by investors of competent institutions for the resolution of property legal relations should be understood in a way that the authorising officer or investor cannot be deprived of the existing authorisation. If that law does not define a transitional period, there is a real danger that existing entities will be deprived of a large part of the existing exploitation fields without compensation. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that no future investor will be able to resolve property legal relations and a full-scale exploitation will be suspended for a long time. The same will result in a significant loss of income that the Republic of Croatia is thus the same unit of local self-government through the closure of business entities, new number of unemployed, etc. and irreparable damage. Something about bankruptcy rights, the law does not define in a clear and transparent manner the rights of existing investors who have obtained authorisation to carry out mining works under previous regulations and where no deadline for exporting works has been defined. In particular, some of the existing controlled mining projects were developed 20 years ago, and the data contained in the same data are not in line with the applicable quantification and quality of the hydrocarbon reserves obtained from the basis of the audit and the hydrocarbon reserve labs, i.e. every five years. The decision on the time limit should be based on existing hydrocarbon-restrictive elaborates, following the decision to be taken replacing the authorisation by which no concession mining works can be carried out. It should also be clearly defined that the period of validity of the authorisation is not included in the deadline on which the concession is granted. Further related to the role of local self-government. The obligation of each county is to record, valorise its mining wealth because it is the capital of the Republic of Croatia. In spatial planning documents, each individual county must be marked in addition to the existing approved exploitation fields and research spaces and potentials of mineral raw materials beds which, of course, does not prejudge their use for mining activities. But it predetermines areas where mining geological research can be carried out under certain conditions with the aim of establishing the limits of the deposits of mineral raw materials. The existing fields of exploitation determine the spaces provided for in the spatial plan for mining activity and do not represent the entire bed area of mineral raw materials. In order to continuously determine the situation in the quantitative and financial terms of the reserve of non-renewable mineral raw materials, it is necessary to carry out continuous research on the premises to be defined by a spatial plan and based on a mining geological study. Something about the termination of the authority's rights. Thus, the mining entrepreneur invested large financial resources and knowledge and, with the mining risk, discovered the deposit of mineral raw material, invested funds in the construction of mining facilities and plants, and exploited mineral raw materials over ten years. Let our oil fields be exploited for more than 60 years, the quarry is more than a hundred years, sea salt and several centuries. Which should be a serious reason not to continue to allow the same authorising officer to exploit the remaining reserves and for more than 40 years with reasoned technical documentation and acceptable procedure. Why new competition, new costs to the state and potential authority, problems to use facilities and facilities owned by an existing mining entrepreneur. With this provision, a large number of mining operators will have to suspend the exploitation of mineral raw materials, or there will only be a short or longer delay in economic activity. Further something related to the basic assumptions of market business. The size of the production of a single mining entity depends exclusively on market conditions of demand and sales and a mining entity that exists on the market to the extent that it wants to be successful in this market relationship must respect it. The legal proposal obliges the mining undertaking to produce at times when its product is not sought and thus is legally forced to generate losses on the one hand and with the obligation to pay a concession fee for mineral raw materials on the other. It was not allowed to stop production at certain times and wait for better times. In this way, the legislator shows that he doesn't care how he operates a mining entity, i.e. in some ways, it brings him into a situation and financial collapse. On the other hand, in times of high demand, the mining undertaking will not be able to increase production above the permitted and thus will not be able to obtain additional financial resources and the part of which at the final stage is also going to the state register. The proposed solution has no economic logic and the legislator has shown that it does not share fate with its economy. In addition to these several key remarks, representatives of the mining economy have also submitted 26 amendments wishing to help and correct this bill, which further emphasises the force of interest of economic facilities for what this Assembly brings and what life means to them. On such difficult economic occasions, I also appeal to fellow MPs not to accept another anti-entrepreneurship law. The legislator should have the ability to understand that those who have proposed these amendments want to work, invest, hire, and that the state needs to be a partner. The HDZ Club will also propose amendments in this context, and if they accept, we are prepared and supported by this law otherwise we cannot support the anti-entrepreneurship laws which this government has persistently pushed the Croatian economy into a abyss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37985	Thank you. This concludes the debate in clubs and we move on to individual debates. A respected representative, Branko Bacic, has signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37986	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates. Well, here's Mr. Popioč, on behalf of the HDZ Club, pointed out the most important remarks and proposals that will, in large part, put the HDZ club into amendments that will be delivered. I would just look back on a few things he listed, which seem to me to be very important and what problems the Croatian Employers' Association has pointed to, and which I think it would be good for the legislator to really take a good look at and that it is obvious, or that it would be good to accept them. I must say, in our first reading, when we discussed this Mining Act that at that time the Government had submitted the final draft of the law, and it was returned to the first reading on the basis of the observations provided by professional associations and the Association of Employers. At that time, we accepted it, and we expected that many of those remarks that were highlighted as the reason why it was asked to go to the first reading that it would then be between the first and the second reading that there would be a large part of these remarks and adopted. However, here is the material that we have received from the visible legislator did not adopt most of these remarks. In fact, it is also unacceptable for me to limit it in this way as the law stipulates to limit a time limit that defines the possibility of exploiting a particular field. I also talked about this when it comes to the Law on the Sea Good, and when it comes to the Law on Agricultural Land, it is not difficult to establish that the concessionary is not within the appropriate time limit left has not amortised his investments. If there are still doubts as to how and how to continue with that concession, then if the concessionee, according to the conditions which are acceptable to the concession provider, fulfils all the obligations to enable him to extend the concession, and not to stop the concession, terminate the concession, open a new procedure, and in this new procedure, there may be problems between the concessionor and the concessionaires in solving the dues which remain the basis of the fact that the concessionary has not put out his investments, that there have remained significant investments that can be questionable there and only create problems in further exploitation of that field. Therefore, I am a supporter to be reasonably approached at such times. I'm saying it's not just this law, it's about the situation with both the maritime good law and the agricultural land law that we adopted 15, 20 days ago to simply break up the concession contract, there's a new competition going on, so that's how the competition ends. I am inclined to proceed with the concession and to continue with the concession agreement according to the conditions prescribed by the concessionaire. The second thing that Mr. Popioč singled out a little while ago is that the law does not restrict or restrict the size of production and length of the duration or interruption of mining works because they depend exclusively on the market legality of supply and demand. The law clearly states in Article 84(3) that the suspension in exploitation should not be longer than 180 days if it is longer to terminate the contract than I also hold that it is not a good solution, that this should be regulated differently. And that's where the amendment will be, because I don't think it's a good idea to treat the concessionaire in a way that forces him to work and when the market doesn't ask for it unless there's even a need to push him to produce something to create a loss that I don't think is in the interest of the state, and the least of it is in the interest of the concessionaire. And also here in this law appears what I say in other laws, which is that the concessionary is obliged to have property relations on its own for the space given to him in the concession. So it seems to me that in a situation where a state with all its apparatus owned by the State's Attorney's Office, the State Geodetic Administration, etc. that with the ministries, with the agency that the state leaves and makes a commitment to the concessionary to resolve property relations in order to pay the concession to the state in the area. It seems to me that this is not a good solution and that for the space that is based on the study that units of local self-government are going to do for the possibility of exploiting a particular field, that this area of interest has been shown to be able to perform certain works on it that this space is then governed by the state administration, not that this space remains in the property of law to solve the concessionary. Therefore, it seems to me that these three essential provisions of the law should be harmonised so that the law really contributes to the entrepreneur, in favour of a concessionary who has enough problems by doing business itself, which leads, what does this job, and that these obstacles that are also hindering him in his work are indeed new solutions in the law and removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37987	Thank you. We don't have any more complaints to discuss, so then I call on Deputy Minister of Economy Allen Leveric to give the closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37988	Thank you very much. So by listening to the debate, I would refer to the distinguished parliamentary representative, Mr Baranovic, who once said this law gives security to investments. This particular security investment was shown through a model that since the first Mining Act that was in '53. So far, all laws, especially since 1991, have been laws that give exploitation 40 years. A clear example of the security of exploitation is that in Europe the practice is 25 years, so we give another 10 or 15 years more. Another example of this law is the quality of this law that this law reduces illegal exploitation. Illegal exploitation is a problem. And if this law is properly read, it is seen that the proponents tend to reduce illegal exploitation. And also what's very important here is that you said that, depending on the economic situation, you're forcing the economy to exploit, no. A businessman can, an entrepreneur, stop exploiting, that's what we're allowing him through this law. So, we've taken all the precautions that are just giving the investor safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37989	I'd like to thank the Deputy Minister, but we have a single reply, Your Honor, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37990	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, I'm probably past the point of saying, you said, this law reduces illegal exploitation. Then what did the previous law allow for illegal exploitation? I suppose this law will introduce order or something, but it can't reduce illegal exploitation. And you have to choose for yourself because since you've been in power for 15 months now, it means you've been allowing illegal exploitation for 15 months. I'm saying, it's probably a rhetorical mistake, but since you're doing it in the record, then it would be good to make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37991	Now we'll hear the answer to that replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37992	Thank you very much, no, it's not a slip, it's not a mistake, it's true. If you read the previous law, i.e. by Friday or when the vote is in force, it seems nice to you that there has been no definition and resolution of property legal relations. Exploitation in unsolved property legal relations is an illegal exploitation. That is precisely the fact that we have put this law into practice that property legal relations must be resolved within five years. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37993	The debate on the text of the law is over, so we'll vote when the conditions are met and they'll win tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37994	Final proposal of the Mining Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 249. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. I ask the respected Deputy Minister of Economy, Allen Leveric, to declare the amendments. First, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37995	Amendment 1 shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37996	Sustained?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37997	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37998	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u37999	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38000	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38001	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38002	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38003	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38004	Thank you very much. Amendment number 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38005	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38006	Thank you very much. Amendment number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38007	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38008	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38009	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38010	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38011	It's unacceptable. Since the adoption of a strategy for the management of mineral raw materials of the Republic of Croatia lays down the basis for the production of mining and geological studies, paragraph 5 of that Article, the obligation to adopt within 12 months of a sublegal act to regulate the content and manner of mining and geological studies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38012	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the applicant for the amendment, the Đuro Popiac, on behalf of the club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38013	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the purpose of the amendment is to clarify and make the law enforceable. It says here that units of local self-government after these studies, they need to plan needs. We have here suggested that, in addition to the need, we should plan naturally and areas for research and exploitation of mineral raw materials. This would also make the law clearer, and more acceptable and would be an implementation for potential investors. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38014	Please state the amendment number one. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment 2. HDZ Representatives' Club. I'm asking the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38015	Amendment number two is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in Amendment No 1. as the adoption of a strategy and sublegal acts within 12 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38016	Again, on behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative, Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38017	So the same reasons. We have here suggested that these results should be used naturally for the purpose of developing a strategy for the management of mineral raw materials, and as a basis for making changes and supplementing the Space Plans of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think that would hurt anything, but obviously you're not accepting anything smart and useful that comes from the opposition. Well, I'm still asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38018	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number two. A HDZ representative club that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3 of the same club of representatives. I'm asking the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38019	Thank you very much, President. Amendment 3 is not accepted since we rightly consider that the 40-year-old exploitation of mineral raw materials is sufficient for each mining economic operator to recover the funds invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38020	On behalf of the HDZ counseling club, Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38021	Thank you, Mr. President. This is a much more serious amendment and a much more serious problem. So this really is about a harsh violation of the rights of investors who invest for years of course in exploiting and building infrastructure for the exploitation of certain fields. So we know that some oil fields have been exploited for more than 620 years, that quarrys have been exploited for more than 100 years, and I don't know for what reason, so after 40 years, they're again driving existing investors who invested in infrastructure into new competitions. So it's a direct and very harmful anti-enterprise measure. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38022	Please state the amendment number three of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to amendment number four of the same club representatives, the respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38023	Thank you very much, President. Amendment 4 is not accepted as it is also specified by the mining-economic entity itself, which requests first all preparatory actions to determine the base field it has checked, has processed the specified exploitation of the mining project which is the basis for the award of concessions and the conclusion of a concession contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38024	On behalf of the applicant club of the HDZ amendment, the respected representative Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38025	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So it clears the bureaucratic approach. It's just a sign that the promoter or the one who wrote, of course, and the government itself doesn't understand market conditions. Therefore, it should at least be possible to take the longer period of time if not in this way, as we have proposed, the level of exploitation and this is still valid for the amendments that we have proposed further. However, here is the fact that you do not accept the request for a re-election.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38026	Please state the amendment number four of the HDz Representatives Clubs that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 5 of the same club of representatives, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38027	Thank you very much, President. Amendment 5 is not accepted, the concession decision shall be delivered to the local self-government unit in which the field of exploitation is located which units of the regional self-government in which the field of exploitation is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38028	An indication of the applicant, the respected representative of Đura Popijac, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38029	Well, I don't think we understand each other here. So in one sentence, you've repeated the same thing twice. It was just a nomotechnical correction. I don't know why you don't fix it. I believe you should have at least accepted that because twice the same text appears. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38030	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number five of the HDZ Representatives Clubs that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment number 6 of the same club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38031	Thank you very much, President. Amendment 6 shall not be accepted in the light of the fact that the provisions relate to non-execution of certain dynamics in obtaining in accordance with the verification of mining project technical documentation based on which the concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials has been awarded. In other words, Rh is not interested in concessions that are not achieved in accordance with the dynamics of obtaining the basis which is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38032	Thank you very much. Applicability of the applicant
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38033	So this is another disaster. We are now aware that something cannot be done of course under the conditions of the severe economic crisis, produced to produce and to create losses. So it's that if someone doesn't work for 180 days, so they can't extract some kind of mineral raw material because the market doesn't accept it, you'll take away the concession after 180 days. It's stupid, it's harmful and it's catastrophic. You don't know or appreciate this at all the economic opportunities that are here today, and unfortunately for the good part and for your credit on the scene. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38034	I would like to make a statement on Amendment 6 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to amendment number seven of the same club representatives. I'm asking the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38035	Thank you very much. That amendment is not accepted. That item is not necessary since it is the same set out in paragraphs 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38036	Please show the applicant, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38037	Now imagine this, so the old concessionaries are making it impossible to extend the work if it doesn't work 180 days with all those who will get a concession after this law you will allow to continue the work even though they haven't done those 180 days, so that's pure discrimination, what have you done? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38038	I would like to make a statement on amendment number seven of the HDZ representatives' clubs that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to the amendment of the same club number eight. I'm asking the Deputy Minister to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38039	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment is not accepted for the sake of the fact that the same proposal requires the exploitation of mineral raw materials without resolved property legal relations or for illegal exploitation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38040	Please show the applicant, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38041	That's not true. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, that's absolutely not true. So one of the key preconditions. This is a key amendment we're actually going through easily, but obviously you don't understand. You have not accepted any or even one that corrects your text, so you do not understand, of course, the essence of the remarks. One of the key preconditions for walking or retaining existing mining work permits has been settled property-legal relations and you are right. Most of the land on state-owned land and site with unresolved land-book conditions and whose dynamics and solution to the investor and/or authority cannot be affected, we are all aware of this and you will now do it on purpose and even those not only of the pebbles, not only of the quarryes but also of those who exploit oil and gas. What's your intention? We know that you can't do it as long as it lasts and these things... can't affect. You deliberately drive them out of existing exploitation fields in this way. There were solutions, we proposed solutions. It will be an interesting result after the adoption of this law which will generate thousands of jobs in Croatia new at the Employment Office. So just keep going like that, I believe you won't be long, that what you're doing to entrepreneurship and the economy is going to stop very soon and stop. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38042	Please state the amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. That's how we exhausted the list of amendments. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes, 76 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 1 abstention was passed by the Mining Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38043	We will discuss today another item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law establishing the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 339; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, Deputy Economy Minister Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38044	Thank you very much. Here, we have amendments to the law establishing an investment and competitiveness agency. These amendments and additions to this Act define the following things. Here, we want to define the role of the investment agency, the competitiveness of the establishment and the work of the national clusters. And we're also going to cut down here, we're proposing a reduction in the number of board members from the agency from four to six board members. It is also proposed here to pay the directors and deputy directors to establish the government by a special decision in a way that pays the director, i.e. the Deputy Director must not be higher than the Deputy Minister's salary. This is also proposed to bring the legal status of employees of the Agency into line with the Public Service Payments Act and the Labour Names Regulation and Public Service Complication Coefficients, since the Agency is a legal person with public authority whose means of work is secured from the state budget. Under the Law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, the Investment and Competitiveness Agency provides active support to investors in all phases of the project. Thus, from September to April, the Agency is currently participating in 8 375m-euro projects where 850 new jobs are planned. That's where the construction started. They are also actively involved in monitoring projects that are in the implementation of UPs or DUP 22 projects worth 3 billion in 600m euros with 1500 employees. Also through projects that actively participate and monitor the status of the project, these are reported projects, four investment projects have been solved through working groups for the business climate and private projects where support is currently provided by the Investment and Competitiveness Agency. Four projects, the total value is 152m euros, which will enable the employment of 770 people. One of these projects was the recent opening of a company from the auto-industry in Slavonski Brod. What needs to be particularly highlighted here is to raise the level of competitiveness... provides operational support and the main coordinator in the establishment and operation of competitiveness clusters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, we have three competition clusters, wood processing, food processing, automotive. Also planned is the competitiveness cluster for the creative industry and set up another 8 clusters by the end of the year. This also enables even stronger and more quality participation and activities of the Investment and Competitiveness Agency in projects where support for removing barriers and investor security is sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38045	On this opening presentation, the respected Nikola Vuljanic stands up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38046	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Minister, you've shocked me with the fact that you're talking about projects that no one has ever seen or heard of before. Today, we read, in our newspaper, here in Vecernjak, in the morning of which there are no 0 projects in Croatia, nothing happens, and you present to us here projects of a few billion euros, I have not remembered how much, and the fact that the director of the agency must not have any higher salary than the deputy minister, so we should have the Deputy Minister's salary. If you were a demagogue and a populist, then I'd say shame on you, and this is all I can say you didn't need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38047	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we move on to the club debate first. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Domagoj Milosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38048	The Honorable Chairman, Deputy Minister with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So this is how when a man reads these changes and completes the law, then given the situation where we're all in and we live, I don't know if we'd laugh or cry. So the CNB published data the other day that in the last quarter of 2012, but literally as counterpart Vuljanic said, it was zero. The only ones who invested were forced to invest, so turn the debt into capital, which would say they were doing a loss in 2012, I'm talking about foreign investors. So even they couldn't make much money in our country, so they were forced to repair their business balances. As for the projects that have been discussed in recent days and weeks, unfortunately or fortunately my personal and HDZ, I was just a member of the government in 2011 and then I know that, unfortunately, there is absolutely no new project in the past year and a half that has not been developed in 2010, 2011. Unfortunately, there is no new investor in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, the competitiveness list, I made an effort, I printed last night, so it says a global competitiveness index. Croatia is last year, i.e. 212/13. He fell five places from 76 to 81. We are ahead of us, with all due respect to these countries, so that it is not accidentally misunderstood, Botswana, Colombia, Rwanda, Azerbaijan, which was called by Prime Minister Milanovic after hosting him in Croatia on the 46th. However, what is crucial to say when we talk about these amendments and amendments to the law, is not a problem in the agency. So the agency should be a tool in the hands of the smart government to get new investors, to make work easier for those in Croatia. So when you really read the agency law, when you see what's listed for the poor agency that I'm supposed to be doing, I won't be there for you, we have time, but it's half past six and I won't read it to you, but given the importance of that agency, then it would be good to read it on the back page, so what's expected. There are 13 points from the Investment and Competitiveness Agency. I think you should have hundreds of employees, you should probably be already from the entire economy ministry if you really want to meet all this that's expected of them. That's the first one. Secondly, one of the major changes says the number of members of the Agency's Governing Council is reduced and not only that, but the competent ministers are being replaced with the heads of the central authorities of the state administration. It just shows how this government absolutely doesn't understand how foreign investors can be reached and what needs to be changed in this country to improve competitiveness and bring in any investors, but any. About keeping the Croatians, which now happens that Croatian entrepreneurs are unfortunately leaving Croatia, I won't even talk about it. Therefore, a task force for business climate and private investment was established. So why is a working group established if taxpayers' money is intended for an agency whose work should be supported. But I'm saying, it's not the agency's problem, it's the government's misunderstanding. So first, of course they should be ministers in the board of directors. So the agency, what is expected of it, cannot be without political support, without the most political support, at the very least the Deputy Prime Minister for the Economy. Secondly, I have spoken of this many times, but therefore our ministers, members of the government before the local elections, instead of visiting the world's capital today and attracting from New York, Moscow, Berlin to Bombay, if you will, foreign investors, travel from Split to Osijek, where it is reportedly necessary for new investments. So the government says it needs them and is expected to be eager. Except the Prime Minister said that we're a breakthrough nation, I don't know exactly why, except by his maybe desire or misunderstanding, which means a truly pervasive nation. Furthermore, I still have one thing to say from these amendments and additions to the law, so political support is important. We're also dealing with the principal's salary. If it is important or less important somewhere, then where it could be discussed about the award system, given that everything expected from such an agency would be in the case of an investment and competitiveness agency. But no, for quite bureaucratic reasons here today we are discussing saying the Director's salary should be as deputy minister. Now I appreciate that this is probably the way it should be, but in any case, it is not a key problem either of the agencies or of this country. Next, the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness encourages the co-operation of the public, private and scientific research sector to strengthen industry excellence through the establishment of national competitiveness clusters and the provision of technical and administrative and financial support for their work. This sounds really grand, but it's completely inconclusive, and I don't know how anyone would expect... the health minister says that it will end absolutely any link between Croatian health care, i.e. HZZO and private medicine. God forbid any private sector develops by accident, so God forbid it even happens in Croatian health, so that it really increases competitiveness. Now I could put a lot more into it, but all of it can really come down to a few sentences. The key first is that our country has no strategy, no strategy to attract foreign investment. Otherwise, one working version was left at the end of 2011 and was part of the handover documents, the government, the HDZ Government towards the new government. And secondly it all comes down to it and this shows these changes best, which is that while the house burns the government sends us proposals that are literally dusting from books in the library, and around that entire library up all the walls, burning the roof. I'm afraid it'll burn the whole house down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38049	Thank you. The Republic is registered by Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38050	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Milosevic, you said in your debate that it was not a problem for the structure of state bodies but simply that there was no investment and that is indeed the case. Now we're talking again about the Investment Agency, we know about that famous Investment Center that had the greatest success in what he had arranged, I mean 14 energy facades in the past year and a half and hired 28 people to spend some if I read the recent 14 million kuna revenue. I mean, maybe it's really hard to say, but the truth is, for a year and a half, the government hasn't sat down yet. So, every day we discuss some agencies. Yesterday we discussed a new agency, an Air, Maritime and Railway Traffic Accident Research Agency. Today on the Investment Agency. The question is which one's next. People don't care about that, and the data you've been talking about, saying that in the last quarter we don't have any investment at all, shows that it's not a structure problem and confirms it's yours, but that the problem is obviously in something else, and that doesn't come to this House's agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38051	We continue to discuss the clubs, so the views of the Croatian Labour Club will bring the respected Branko Vuksic closer to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38052	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I rarely agree with Mr Milosevic, not because I would not appreciate his knowledge, I greatly appreciate his knowledge, but we are on opposite sides, but this time I agree with his discussion, with what he said. Changes to the law are said for several reasons. I heard here in the Croatian Parliament I am very short, so I can imagine how then fellow MPs who have several mandates here react to the word "removing the barrier". Look, we had the HITROREZs, and I don't know what we didn't have, the various governments were trying to take down those barriers, and no one ever took down except the standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Everything stays the same, every time we talk about the same things. So removing the barrier, now those barriers will be lifted. When will they be removed? That's never been said by the government of Mr. Milanovic. We've been talking about investment for months, 15 months. I remember when the first Deputy Prime Minister went out to the Croatian Parliament the first time he spoke then he said in March we perform, then he said not in March but in June. Then he said not in June but in autumn, then the second spring, etc. We didn't do anything, unfortunately we didn't do anything, and nobody's happy to understand each other. They would have been much happier, more satisfied and discussed the details that the Kukuriku coalition had announced. However, they cannot, they cannot attract investment unless there is a strategy as said. What are they going to invest in? Who's he gonna call? What's to be built? What processing industry is going to develop? What raw materials do we have? We've asked the prime ministers here several times to give us an overview of what the government is doing. That's when the Prime Minister gets angry. He's angry, he says he can't ask, that it's rude to ask a question of what you're doing. But I think the worse answer is the question. However, there is one big investment for which citizens notice, and we politicians seem to have forgotten about it, one big investment in which big money is invested. Unfortunately, this investment has been missed, and these are the agencies. Hundreds of agencies are the most missed investments. Better to share that money with the poor than to give to agencies and officials who don't know why the agencies exist. Many agencies two, three years exist and say don't ask us anything. We're not complete yet. Many agencies only have secretaries, there are no people there or in many agencies two, three people working that don't actually have a job. It's been said before about the competitiveness index. Every time you think it can't be lower, then you see it can be lower, you've actually been wrong, you've been optimistic, we've come to the bottom. We didn't get to the bottom, we keep falling. There's no end to that sinkhole. And we're still dealing with amending the agency laws, changing the law, I don't know what it's all about, but we never said who's guilty of 15 months or responsible for 15 months without investment, that last quarter of 2012 we don't have a single investment. How can this country progress if there is not a single investment. Someone's got to be responsible. What is the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness responsible for? I couldn't agree more. The Governing Council, ministers from the Governing Council want to leave not because they would underestimate the Investment and Competitiveness Agency that they once praised and when they said they would bring investors rather than not be responsible. He'll be responsible for all the agencies, and they won't be in that agency, they won't be in the board. They're not a key problem with the agency's salary. The key problem is business impotence which causes incompetence and which simply gives all investors in the Republic of Croatia a sign not that they are not welcome, that they have no one to talk to. Many investors who have tried to invest in the Republic of Croatia have recently said that they simply do not have competent partners to do business in Croatia and therefore bypass us at the port. So these amendments and additions to the Investment and Competitiveness Agency law will not be supported as a representative club. Someone will say you're not for investment, we are for investment, but we know that this change is just another farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38053	We've got two lines reported. First, the esteemed Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38054	I'm glad my colleague Vuksic agrees. There's one thing I can't agree on, though, even though you're actually a little bit ambiguous in the sense that investment in the agency is wrong. It's not a problem at the agency. So it's not really a problem with the agency, it's a strategy problem, goals, clear goals for the director and the whole agency that it wants to achieve with the agency, the tool is great. Even here I'll say quite frankly I know a gentleman from before, long before industrious, smart, just understands that. However, the Government is therefore responsible under a) to create an investment climate, and part of this is the tax system of the Republic of Croatia, under b) structural reforms that will result in investments at the end of the day. So it's not going to happen on its own, it's investments that especially foreign people come to countries that are competitive, where you know what deadline your investments can end or at least start your investment at the end of the day, and where at the end of the day, you're not going to worry about who's going to change your tax system where you have to plan. In fact, the rate of change in the 21st century is more important to plan and have some clear strategic goals. Therefore, it is not a problem that Croatia needs an agency but it must be a tool, one of the government's tools to reach foreign investors, of course, a resulting strategy for attracting foreign investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38055	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38056	Look, I don't think the agency as a tool as a tool is unnecessary but something that doesn't bring any result is in itself unnecessary. We can call it any way. I don't think all the people in the agencies are incompetent people and that they don't know how to work on it, but that agency didn't produce any results. Now the address for the culprit is certainly the first address of the government. But those people in the agencies have their own, I guess. So what are they doing in those agencies for a year if nothing moves for a year and a half? If they're so good, I believe you if you know people that they're good why they didn't run? When I can't run, why didn't they get away from it? Why didn't they protest? We all stand, we tap in place and say sorry, but it's the other guy's fault. It's not even the government's fault, please just a little structure of the agency. A hundred agencies see what they're doing? Try calling them, try talking to them, you'll see, maybe there are two, three, five agencies I don't know who are doing great, I don't know. The situation in Croatia does not say that they are doing great. Second thing, I agree there's no strategy. But we've been talking about this strategy for 15 months here in the Parliament. The economic strategy includes the tax policy as well. And you can't bring a natural strategy without talking about taxes. If we were at the beginning when the Kukuriku government came into power that we talked about this strategy then we would know exactly what the tax press will be, which will be done in every natural segment that will be done, which will not work and would send a clear message to investors in Croatia that they are welcome on this and these segments, that we will do so and that. But if we change some law every month and every month we say no this isn't good, now we're going to buzz buildings, we're not going to buzz buildings, now we're going to do new deals, not a new deal good now we're going to give it to privates, privates are thieves we're not going to give it to them. Every month, the second month, that prevents investors in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38057	The second line is esteemed Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38058	Thank you. I remember the second session, and it seems to me that the second session was in this assembly, when people were being appointed to the agencies, the state-owned companies and the law were bringing about it, so the public competitions were lifted, and it's clear from this pay phone we're going to put people we trust in. And then we all rebelled against it, and in that discussion, I insisted that I be answered for what happens if those people we trust don't make what we've given them trust. In the end, I provoked the answer, and then these people fly, and the minister who brought them is flying. Which, of course, makes sense. Em couldn't tell them what to do, but they didn't do what they were supposed to do. So, you need to move both of them. We did not see that example, and everything happened the other way around from what was promised. From the momentum of investments, from the clear direction we're going, from the strategy that's here waiting around the corner just about to bring it in. So none of it was realized, and no one was responsible. They're responsible. I don't know the structures of the government or the poor administration. It doesn't mean anything to me. It's man's responsibility, it's the responsibility of the person who decided to set up the wrong agency, the wrong person to put in the wrong agency. That man is responsible along with that agency. If it's still going to work, it's going to change like this every two, three months the laws are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38059	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38060	Dear fellow Vuljanić, I remember those words when we were persuaded, and besides, I doubted whether he had the right to appoint his people, if they had been given authority, why not set up their own people. And most of the time in the House, we passed such laws, they passed pardon laws like that, we opposed it, and you asked what was wrong with these people, they said if the head of the agencies didn't succeed, but also ministers who didn't make a good choice. Agency chiefs, ministers flew the truth across Croatia in a pre-election campaign for the European Parliament first and now for local elections. No one's responsible for anything. We're changing the law. But if it weren't just us, that the bad government is working, that bad documents suggest what they themselves prove to themselves that they're writing amendments in two, three hours. I'll take out today, get the information that the euro parliament at a plenary session in Strasbourg on Thursday voted most of the votes in favour of the last resolution in Croatia, on EU accession. However, the resolution voices concern that the proposed law on strategic investment is not in line with European standards and calls on the Croatian government and parliament to change it to better protect fundamental rights, particularly ownership rights and the environment. We've already talked about it, called together the presses, and we've been ridiculed for it. Now that it has come from the European Parliament, you will now be changing but the opposition does not know. You know that's why we're falling into the abyss.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38061	We'll hear the individual debate of a respected colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, by listening to your opening statement, I really think that these in the IMF are in international financial institutions in the CNB, who are ignorant of being projected and said that Croatia will have negative economic trends this year is simply funny because what you said would be true would guarantee in Croatia at least two, three percent of economic growth this year. But it's your illusion and you have the right to it, and I would technically touch this law because it's very strangely written. So what do you suggest it changes? So no clusters will be established because some administrator, some agency or some ministry liked to have a cluster, so I guess the initiation of clusters is done by those who see through that way will increase the competitiveness of their work, their product and that it will be more competitive on both Croatian and international markets to demand a change of law to say that they will establish a national cluster and competitiveness and provide technical administrative and financial support for their work is at least ridiculous. If you look at just a page before that, the great application of this law will not require additional funding in the state budget, so I wonder how the Agency will provide financial assistance? It's a contradiction with each other. If you're going to do it through the resolution ministries, then the ministries will do it and then the ministry will explain it when they propose a budget, but then it won't be the agency that does it, but it'll be the resolution ministries. So that's one nonsens. The second nonsens was when we warned you at the first, in fact when the law was passed that the agency run by the president would actually be managed by the board of directors, which makes the president and 14 members that he was a pre-imposed body, that the body simply could not operate at all, but was then of course not well. However, the article states in paragraph 4 that instead of the competent ministers, the words of the head of the central authorities of the state administration are put in place. You can't suggest anything from the Ministry of Economy. All proposals from the economy ministry must be signed by Minister Vrdoljak. You can sign in for him if he gave you authority but you can't suggest anything in front of the ministry. Only a minister can do that. Look at the law on the Croatian government, and you will see who represents and represents the ministry. He's represented by the minister. So you here in the law say instead of the words of the competent ministers, they put the words of the head of the central authorities and the law is according to the previous proposal of the competent ministers. Well, the logical thing is that the minister proposes to anyone in any body, to the council or anything. It cannot be suggested that the head of the governing body is first of all not defined which one is the head, whether it is the deputy minister, whether it is the assistant minister, whether it is the director of the administration, so you have several heads of administrative bodies in the ministries. Who will suggest it and which law you call upon when you put such a formulation into this law. So if you give some kind of formulation it must be in accordance with some laws governing the formation of a state administration in the Republic of Croatia. But if the minister is known to represent the ministry, hand over the proposals, and then it's all a minister, then it can't be someone else. The minister can give this authority to someone to do something for him and you know exactly in his ministry when you look at certain administrations then you will see that the minister has given them the powers they can and can do but that does not mean that they are proposing but the minister has given them the authority, which means the minister, because originally it is not the head of that administrative body and that it is the minister's authority, it is the second pair of shoes but is the original minister, so this article is contrary to the Government Act. However, what unfortunately began to appear in the documents of this government and I am really surprised that such laws could pass the government's legislation office. In which law, the structure of a body determines the salaries of leaders and generally people employed in that body. Not at all. If I'm not mistaken, we had a very heated argument here two months ago because we've raised the coefficient for two HZMO leaders and I don't know which other ones. And there are, among other things, the leaders of some agencies and now all the heads of the agencies, their salaries are set by that law, but this head of this investment agency and competitiveness here is said to have no higher salary than the deputy minister and the government will set that salary by its decision. Now, look, if all the leaders in the government of the Republic of Croatia in the state administration are one law-set coefficient, then I don't know what law and what regulation will the government specifically determine for this head of the agency what his salary is and what it is with this law. We do not say that this salary will be as much and as much as we say it must not be greater than the deputy minister. It can be 10% smaller, 20% smaller, 30% smaller but this clearly indicates that such a provision must not be in law. The second thing, if the agency is just the government of the Republic of Croatia and if we have passed the law, then the logical thing is that all employees are paid, paid and paid by all other things by law, which applies to all 240, 50,000 employees in the state administration. And it's not supposed to be the subject of this law either. But the thing is, obviously, in the Agency's creation acts in the Government Act, some things aren't defined. I'm sorry there are a few lawyers here so they can legally interpret it, but I'm still an economist not a lawyer, but it's a very strange normative that the government of the Republic of Croatia has started to deal with and that in acts that simply don't belong to things that aren't there. However, that this agency has neither done its job nor fulfilled its supplement nor will meet it tomorrow, best shows that, according to new CNB data in the last three months last year, there has been virtually no investment, best showing that in the first 4 months of this year, there has been virtually no significant investment in the Republic of Croatia, and it is talking about setting up certain institutions to throw dust in the eyes of Croatian citizens to do something, now the results of throwing that dust... see. Instead of the planned economic growth of 1.8, it's definitely that this year we're going to be below zero is just a question of whether we're going to be with zero wholes or whether we're going to be with 1 or 2% unfortunately and changing this law this way a year after the agency was founded is a clear indication that whoever suggested this doesn't know what to do. This whole job should be done by the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy. He is the one who should coordinate economic ministers and he is the one who, with his authority, does all this work, and at the end of the day when you look at the composition of the HBOR Supervisory Board, you will see that he is entirely identical to you just because there are ministers and not people from these and those ministers. So we repeat several times some of the things that should basically be done by the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy in coordination for the economy with the leaders of these economic ministries. And those ministers when they return to their ministries by their administrations do what they have to do. This way, the head of one agency will be able to order a minister or a deputy minister if he notices that there is something wrong with his ministry, especially when in the government, the adversaries whose political option they belong to are clearly divided, so let's not be ridiculous. So we all know how some things work. So this is just another failure. This amendment of the law clearly indicates that an alibi is required for why there are no investments in Croatia, why this agency has done nothing without speaking the law nom technically written. I've only told you a few things that don't stop because if the agency is going to start clusters, then we're going back to the time of the agreed economy or the planned economy, however you want, and that was the biggest tragedy for the Republic of Croatia because clusters ensure those who believe that their association will come into a position to be competitive on the market. No agency that gathers them together will achieve this goal until they do so out of interest and we in Croatia finally have to realize that our economy when it gathers must be because of their interest and because of their demands, not because someone thought of it as an administrator in a ministry or government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38063	To this exhibition, we will now hear the replica of the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38064	Thank you, Mr. President. You can see in your reasoning of the law that the application of this law will not require additional funding in the state budget that I agree with almost and agree with because a few 15, 10 days ago we brought a rebalancing of the state budget where at the agency's position it remains that this year it will spend 18 million kuna. Therefore, if the rebalancing is left with the amount adopted in November that there are no new activities of financial obligations for the Agency because there are as they say here in this law, then the adoption of the budget rebalancing should increase that paragraph or the Government in Article 1. It is just like that it will give financial support to cluster work or the budget, when already adopted in the 11th month, has provided enough funding for this change of law. That's one thing. And the other thing is, I don't get it, so maybe you can explain it to me. How is the government setting up two agencies last year to encourage investment, therefore one is the Law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, and another is established by that famous energy sector and investment business centre. And for this agency whose part-time work we are changing the classification of the state budget positions in the Ministry of Economy and in those positions provides 18 million kuna, and on the other hand, a centre as I said by law which is somehow under surveillance if so I can say the Ministry of Economy, as we hear from the media, needs for its business 14 or 15 million kuna, and that centre is not in the positions of the state budget. I don't think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38065	The replica matches, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38066	Yes, colleague Bačić, you have noticed well in all the proposed amendments to the law stand already and the parrots repeat that no additional funds are needed. If there are no additional resources needed, there are only two reasons to do so, or you admit that this body has not worked well so far and did not know what it is doing so you change the law or you have to provide new funds to say this body worked well and with this change of law we give it one wind in the back but with new financial means we give it an even stronger wind in the back. So there are two reasons. There's no third reason. However, look, we have already discussed in these two days how many, 32 legislative proposals, not for any legislative proposal, I think it was for one legislative proposal that there will be a little bit of insurance in this year, but it will be next, this is Minister Doncic's colleague yesterday, Hajdas Doncic said and in all others there is simply no need for funds. So, very, very strange. But I repeat, the key problem in and these governments in functioning is that the economic sector has been divided into atheras, party Ataras, and no one on the side can interfere. However, if we all talk about removing administrative barriers, so we know what an administrative obstacle is, it is known, but nowhere does it appear that someone else will organise in that state administration and the part that we missed out on big cities to issue building permits, it is the removal of administrative barriers. It's an office with which an investor first meets land books. All this later agreement of HEP, etc., where some administrator, there is not the government's fault, that we understand each other and all of us who were in the government have experienced it. That some administrator is holding things back, but if the government is working on it, no, she's letting it keep being brakes and going through the system where I am. But starting agencies, some other people get dragged into the business and the result is, unfortunately, the way it is. Just one sentence, please, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder: Time.]] But I don't think anyone in this assembly, no matter what side he was sitting on, is happy and satisfied with this moment that's happening in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38067	The legislative proposal will now be given by Deputy Economy Minister Alen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38068	Thank you very much, President. Administrative barriers, today it was said that there was no shift in administrative barriers. The shift in administrative barriers in just the usual... renewable energy sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With 11 spaces, we've reduced 60 documents to 2 and 4 papers. What did we get with that? We opened 32 power plants, non-renewable energy sources were on the grid from the end of 2011. Today, with this removal of barriers, we have over 120 power plants of non-renewable energy sources in the Croatian energy network. About the agency and that, that the agency wasn't guilty, that the agency was just one tool, it's interesting that the colleague who ran the agency was O.K. It's all great about the Agency's debate, but it's interesting that we had to re-establish this agency, why we had to re-establish it, because it was abolished and European and world practice is just about for agencies to be in the state, to help investors and to monitor investment. How we raised the level of competitiveness and the ability to invest in Croatia. Recently, the Investment Encouragement Act came out with between 1,000 and 3,000 euros per job opening, and we raised to 3 to 9,000. Croatia is thus becoming competitive. I can still list positive examples but what I said at the beginning, we are proud, what I listed from September 1st to April 16th, that active investment and competitiveness agencies participate in projects, yes, very active and very proud that some of the investments that we had when we came to power were blocked, we followed them and which opened several days ago. Yes, we are very proud to have over 100 renewable energy sources online, that we are very proud of the agency that actively monitors each of the investments that come to Croatia. And of course the result will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38069	On this closing word we have two replicas reported. First esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38070	Look, Mr. Leveric, it's all wonderful and wonderful what you're talking about, but these projects have been opened and started before, but I'm not going to talk about it at all. As a result, Croatian citizens pay 20% more electricity. And with an increased VAT, it's a 30% increase in electricity prices. Well, you can say whatever you want. You can't explain it to them, I'm telling you, investment and everything that happens positively, citizens have to feel it in everyday life, I'm telling you about it. You have a great hydroyear now, unfortunately many areas have been swimming in Croatia. So, at this point, Croatia produces 90% of its electricity needs at the lowest price possible, so if the government has said it should raise the price because we have to introduce expensive electricity, so why not now take off the price. I remember when a proposal came from similar experts in 7 months 2010 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to raise the price 25% and it was also a good hydroyear, because spring was rainy, we said no, we won't raise some electricity products and practically a year there was no need to raise electricity prices, that's something. And the other thing is, it's true what you're saying, so look, they're not economic analysts either domestic or externally stupid. So if they are doing an economic growth assessment in one country, then precisely based on what has been done, they are talking to investors and they all know what will happen in Croatia this year and what can be expected in the economy, just as it will happen next year. You know, if what you're saying were true, they'd be accepting it and installing it somewhere with a certain protection or a connection that might not happen that way. But you look at the central bank estimates over all independent economists. After all, the most devastating was yesterday's evaluation of the IMF that came in. The most devastating. And you know what that means to you, ultimately, for the price of capital? That's what you'll see. And then all those who want to invest in Croatia, report an investment in Croatia, you will see how much capital they will cost. And it's devastating and that's what's most dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38071	The reply corresponds to Deputy Economy Minister Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38072	Your Honor, I agree that these projects have been launched long before. It's true. And you know why they're not finished, you know why they're not finished? ... Because they were barriers. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] For example, we found 127 projects in renewable energy sources that didn't get any permits, a few years old. In a week or so, in 10 days, we solved these items, and we started... we started removing those barriers. The truth is, they stood, they collected dust, and the investments waited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38073	And another replica, dear Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38074	Thank you. Actually, Mr. Deputy Minister, there are no objections to your speech and I apologize. If I didn't live where I live, I'd say this is the best of all possible governments, and this is the best of all possible agencies, to paraphrase one philosopher. Just please give it to me, go outside and explain to my voters why they live like that, why they pay for that kind of electricity, why they're out of work, why they're digging in the container. I can't explain it to them while you think so. I don't know what to tell them. The deputy minister says it's very good for you, but you haven't figured it out yet, and you'll figure out who survives in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38075	And this replica is answered by Deputy Economy Minister Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38076	Thank you. Dear Parliamentarian, we are doing everything we can to raise the level of competitiveness. We don't have to repeat what's been going on over the last few years and something, or more intensely in the last few months, and believe me, all the efforts are and the results are there. Seven days ago you opened the first investment that was blocked and more investments that were blocked are slowly opening up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38077	That concludes the debate on this bill, and now we're going to stop working, we're going to continue at 9.30 tomorrow. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Veterinary and Medical Products Act, and then, in turn, as already stated in our final agenda, we will vote at 12 hours. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38078	We move to vote on the final draft amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 339. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I ask the respected Deputy Minister of Economy Allen Leveric to plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38079	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-18-0.u38080	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final text of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes, 79 votes in favour and 24 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
