ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39735	I wish you colleagues and colleagues a good day. We will discuss - A report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds in 2012 The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the basis of Article 69. The law on free legal aid. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and you received reports at the session. On behalf of the proposing deputy justice minister, Ms Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39736	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. They would present a report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and expenditure for 2012. In the opening part of the report, a brief reference is given to the Institute of Legal Assistance as it is governed by the Law on Free Legal Assistance, it points to its importance. In the second part, a review of the legislative framework consisting of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Sublaws, as well as an institutional framework consisting of the administrations of the State Administration which decide in the first instance on the requirements of citizens to authorise the use of legal aid, and the Ministry of Justice which, as an appeal body, implements a secondary procedure and monitors the application of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and is responsible for the functioning of the system as a whole. The central and most extensive part of the report provides a statistical overview of the number of applications submitted and approved in the Republic of Croatia as well as of certain counties. A review of the spending of funds provided for the legal assistance system in the State budget is given in 2012 by individual offices and in total. Data are provided in relation to the type of legal aid granted, and providers who have provided certain forms of legal assistance. This section also contains information on users of legal aid to residence or nationality. We recognise the importance of an effective system of free legal assistance because it is a key element in the protection of human rights and the exercise of the rule of law. However, the existing legal system based on the 2008 Law on Free Legal Assistance, which was amended in 2011, is formalised, complicated, restrictive, citizens of weaker property and marginalised social groups, making it difficult for them to exercise their right to free legal assistance even though they need it too much. These legislative solutions have led to the lack of funds allocated for the financing of the system of free legal assistance, and this has resulted in a drastic drop in the funds provided for this purpose, which is insufficient for the real needs of citizens. The money that was planned in 2009 amounted to 8 million thousand kuna, and after the redistribution, it was reduced to 2 million kuna. In 2012, we planned 2 million thousand kuna, and we settled down after redistributing to millions and 200000 kuna. In this reporting period, therefore, a total of EUR 200000 was spent, and the funds that are expected to be charged over the years are 5 million kuna. The reserved funds are in the position of free legal aid, whose payment is expected from 2013 to 2015, respecting the duration of the procedure, since the accounts for the services provided by lawyers are paid by the actions carried out in the process or after the completion of the procedure. The amount planned for 2013 has been reduced by 78% compared to the amount planned in 2009, and on the other hand the number of applications submitted is increasing. In 2009, 4500 applications were submitted and 7,000 applications were submitted in 2012. Therefore, the number of applications submitted in 2012 increased by 55% compared to 2011 by 27% compared to 2009. More than 50% of the applications were submitted for family procedures, 53% and more than 10% of the requirements for enforcement procedures. In more than 75% of cases, free legal aid providers are lawyers, other associations and clinics. On the trail of our fundamental guidelines in the area of justice aimed at preventing an increase, i.e. to reduce the number and duration of court proceedings, we consider it important to facilitate access to primary legal assistance through authorised associations or legal clinics. There are 35 associations and two legal clinics in Split and Zagreb. And in order to address the lack of existing legal solutions and to ensure the purpose provided by the Ministry of Justice in February this year has prepared the first draft draft draft of a new law, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Free Legal Assistance, but because of its scope, I think we foresee that it will be a new law. Due to the importance of public participation, the draft is published on our website with the call of the interested public to deliver observations and comments. We also held a round table with all the people who delivered their remarks, we participated in a public debate in the House of Human Rights organized by the Centre for Peace, Non-violence and Human Rights. In order to find the best solutions, we have collected experience from the citizens themselves and from the providers of free legal assistance that have achieved this right, their needs, especially vulnerable and marginalised social groups, and based on analysis of the current situation and recommendations, we have still had one twinning light project to improve the system of free legal assistance where we have received 66 recommendations in collaboration with our partners from which we have not accepted only one. So we did not accept the recommendation to allow associations and legal clinics to directly represent in free legal aid before the court. And therefore, because the new law on the basis of this, we are changing two-thirds of the existing law, this scope of change leads to the creation of a new proposal for a law on free legal aid that will be completed in the second quarter of this year and a day in the procedure. The basic guidelines of the new law, which arise in part from this report before you, are to extend the scope of primary legal aid in such a way as to add to the existing forms of assistance general legal information and to fill out a form of application for secondary legal assistance, it is easier to access the use of primary legal aid by providing in all cases concerning the exercise of the right of citizens who have and authorised associations, trade unions and higher universities have the right to provide legal assistance without having a specific solution to authorise the use of legal aid. They shall be mitigated and clearly defined the property criteria for the achievement of secondary legal assistance. It expands the circle of users in terms of foreigners with no conditions of reciprocity. It is particularly extended to vulnerable groups and we specifically targeted children who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were found without escorts, regardless of their stay and their loan. Victims of criminal acts of violence in damages proceedings without determining the property situation. We will inform citizens of everything naturally and continuously through websites, mobile teams, etc. Targeted project funding is what it wants, hence providing free legal assistance in environments where there are no offices and courts and providing free legal assistance to particularly vulnerable marginalised social groups. A clear definition of the criteria to be taken into account in the allocation of funds for the financing of projects and what is our ultimate objective of expanding the source of legal aid from local and regional (regional) self-government, donations and other revenues in accordance with the law. So this report that was before you was the basis for changing the concept of free legal aid that will be formed into a new law that will soon be given in the procedure with an emphasis on what we have now stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39737	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first one's the club's turn. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39738	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds in 2012. The system of exercising the right to legal aid is a system that guarantees the exercise of fundamental human rights, the exercise of the right of access to courts and public authorities under equal conditions. It is therefore important to have parliamentary oversight of the implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which is carried out each year through the debate of the Annual Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds for the previous year. The adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance in June 2008 for the first time in the Republic of Croatia has reached a legislative framework for the creation of a complete system of legal assistance in civil and administrative matters, thus creating a legislative framework after 11 years of full age, i.e. since the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms was in force in 1997. A fair trial begins with a guarantee that an individual has the right to access a court that allows all forms of judicial protection. Professional legal assistance is needed to ensure that an individual enjoys access to the court, especially in those cases where persons who do not have sufficient financial resources to provide professional assistance. The law on free legal aid has started to apply since February 2009 and has been updated in 2011. It should also point out the Regulation on the value of the amounts for determining the compensation for the provision of primary and secondary legal assistance for 2012. The SDP Club will support this report from which progress is made in relation to the previous periods, but the fact is that for a full-fledged assessment of the system as well as to determine whether the same purpose has been met is to pass a certain period of time and that the general public needs to get a more complete picture of the system itself and the opportunities it provides to users. It is a time within which the practice of all participants of the system that is still lagging behind will be brought into line. A serious approach by the applicant to this very important segment of society is also the result of a continuous analysis of the effects of the existing Law on Free Legal Assistance, which is also the consequence of the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which is in the public debate and is on the pages of the Ministry of Justice. I also welcome the thought that this is about making a whole law on free legal aid. The main objective of setting up and of course developing the system should be to bring the system closer to the most needed citizens for whom the system itself is created. Law novels were on the trail of improving the system in order to facilitate and facilitate access to courts and public authorities to Croatian citizens and foreigners, taking into account their material position and circumstances, so as not to be able to exercise rights without jeopardising their abstention or abstention of members of their households, and further improvements to the free legal assistance system itself arise from the content of the draft. It is extremely important that we analyse and assess the system of exercise of the right to legal assistance year after year. In this respect, it is also important that sub-legislative regulations, which are a tariff for the determination of the value of the compensation for the provision of primary and secondary legal assistance and a Regulation on the criteria for the evaluation of projects of authorised associations for the provision of primary legal assistance and legal clinics, and on the manner of reporting on the implementation of projects, are subject to an analysis each year. Legal aid shall be granted as primary legal aid covering legal advice, the assembly of submissions before public authorities, representation in proceedings before public authorities and legal assistance in the peaceful non-judicial settlement of disputes. It is then realised as a secondary legal advice, the assembly of submissions in court and legal aid in the peaceful settlement of the dispute and the achievement of primary and secondary legal assistance is monitored in this report because the exemption from payment of court fees and the exemption from payment as a form of legal aid comes to pass from 1 January 2013. The use of legal aid in the reporting period over a far greater percentage was used for secondary legal aid, with even 83.94% compared to the use of primary legal aid used in 7.62% of the total 5877 of the approved applications. The secondary legal aid, however, was too difficult to represent before the court in as many as 91% of cases. I therefore again draw attention to what I pointed out and to the debate on the previous report, especially perceiving an extremely high share of the use of legal aid in representation before the court. The Regulation on the value of the amount for determining the compensation for providing primary and secondary legal assistance has been amended only in terms of the value of the point but not in the number of points for a particular legal action as well as in the number of legal actions for a particular type of dispute. The success in a particular dispute is partly determined by a well-placed lawsuit and complexity of a type of dispute. By means of a regulation of an action in all types of civil dispute in which the right to legal aid can be exercised, they have the same number of points. I believe that the lawsuit in disputes over real rights or working relationships is still more complicated than the divorce suit, and I do not consider land-marking procedures to be more complex. I am also not sure that the legal advice and composition of the suit should be equally valued. In any case, implementation of the system should be monitored and analysed every year in a way that brings it closer to the most needed for which the system itself is created. I will stand out as in the discussion of the previous report the fact that throughout this system, for 4 years, two legal clinics at the Faculty of Law of Zagreb and the Faculty of Law of Split operate in the Republic of Croatia and it is evident that citizens did not recognise the full potential of clinics as primary legal aid providers, and it is certainly necessary to work to recognise their quality and expertise. That's what it takes because the benefit is multiple. On the one hand, citizens exercise their right to legal assistance, and on the other hand it enables students to gain the necessary experience through practical work and professional mentor supervision and to qualify for practical application of the right. When we look at the financial side of the budgets of individual public administration offices in 2012 for this purpose they were generally increased compared to 2011 which is also good because the number of requests has been increased. In any case, implementation of the system should be monitored and analysed each year in a way that brings it closer to the most needed as I have already pointed out for which the system itself was created. The system should continue to develop and create conditions that will allow equal rights in access to courts and public authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39739	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39740	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing today the fourth report on the implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. These reports to the Croatian Parliament are useful and serve us to monitor systematically and continuously whether the law we have passed in implementation and practice has achieved the purpose and purpose for which we have adopted it. In 2008, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which united this Institute of Legal Assistance into an overall system, was passed because by then they had insisted as legal aid forms through specific laws, which does not mean that today we still have certain regulations in special laws. And that's why it might be good to keep doing this to unite the single system. At that time in 2008, the law was adopted in accordance with the EU Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the right of everyone to a fair, impartial and reasonable trial and European acquis and the best practice and recommendations of the Council of Europe documents. At that time, legal aid has been extended to administrative procedures and administrative disputes, a circle of legal aid providers has been extended, and then the possibility of providing legal assistance has been granted to both associations and legal clinics, and here are the changes to the law since 1 January 2013 and to the administration of state administrations. In accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, this law was nominated in 2011 but because of its inaccuracy in the provisions and cases of too strict restriction of law, however, the concept of the law is also retained by these amendments. This report, as well as every year, shows the number of applications submitted, the approved applications, the fees paid and the accounts of those funds by the offices of the state administration, the county and the city of Zagreb, the types of legal aid granted, the types of beneficiaries of legal aid and the procedures for which it has been approved. We read from this report that, continuously since 2009, the number of applications submitted has increased, so here in 2009 he was 3848 requirements, and in 2012. 7068. Also paid funds in 2012 amounted to a million 258 of which is symptomatic to associations through project financing only 200 thousand 397 kuna. Of course, not because they would not be paid out of the budget to provide legal assistance but because so many projects have been reported for project financing. From the presentation of the budget of the Office of State Administration by county we notice as well as in the difference of the number of cases provided legal assistance like this... at first sight, it is disproportionate to the number of residents and the number of court and administrative cases per particular county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And therefore, by commenting on the previous report, we requested one analysis of this phenomenon to determine the reasons and causes of whether, in general, there were fewer disputed situations and fewer needs in a particular county. Are there so many wealthy citizens in certain counties that they don't need free legal aid or is it simply that it is more inaccessible or that citizens are less informed about these options. Here we also have a review of the use by types of legal aid to providers, which shows that secondary legal aid and lawyers continue to precede. So in seven counties, 100% of the time, legal aid was provided through a lawyer and in over half of the cases, over 80%. And here we may notice and single out three counties, which are Istria, Lika-Senjska and Sisak Moslavina, where there is much greater involvement in providing legal assistance through associations. So let's say in Lika-Senjska 66% and in Sisak-Moslavina 79% in favour of associations. And here it would be important to explore the reasons for whether there are more administrative problems there than judicial considering that it is areas in which, the reconstruction procedures, returnees, etc. Or there is a significant quality of the work of associations in that area. It is also evident that the share of legal assistance provided by associations and clinics does not correspond with the number of registered associations, so 35 associations were registered and only 15 projects were received for the application of projects to provide legal assistance. So, according to that and the projects, it was paid on average between 15 and 20 thousand kuna per association as much as it was requested. These associations, these funds must be submitted annually by the association to report on the funds spent, not by law. However, none of the reports so far and neither of this report we have warned about do not contain any information as to whether the funds received have been used in full, if they are not and we doubt how much legal assistance has been provided through the association, whether they have been returned to the state budget. Similarly, the 2011 draft law in the case of secondary legal aid has detailed the procedure for returning funds to the budget if the beneficiary has succeeded in the procedure and is compensated for the funds in the procedure. We also don't have this information in the report and they would be valuable and we expected them because in some way they would provide a picture of how successful legal aid was provided by lawyers through secondary legal aid and representation to courts. Because in this context, I point out that there is a question on committees of adequate legal aid for free legal aid provided by the Government's 2012 regulation, which is set at 50% of the amount provided for in the bar tariff. Which means that lawyers are obliged to provide legal assistance, they must not refuse it, but they will receive 50% of the amount as compensation for working in these proceedings. The question is how much they are happy to accept it and the question is then their commitment and quality, which, if it is not successful, is actually a state of unnecessary pay and citizens are not receiving quality legal assistance and therefore these data would be useful for us to consider these cases. I'd say here's an example of one of the mentioned clinics of law school. This year we only read the Faculty of Law clinic in Zagreb in 2012 from the Report. It has been granted 17 thousand kuna. I don't know if we have a report on that. But I note, for example, that in the area of the city of Zagreb 100% aid has been provided, legal assistance through lawyers. So we don't know where they are, where this is lost. The failure to submit data on the return of funds to the state budget states that they are not implemented, at least we do not show mechanisms for the control of the expenditure of the budget money provided for in the legislative provisions and should be worked on. Finally, reading the activities of the Ministry of Justice, we see that workshops, round tables for judges, advisers and lawyers were held. However, despite the suggestion during last year's 2011 report that such workshops must be done for interested citizens, unfortunately we do not see these activities at least from the report that they were. And given the often neutral budgets by individual counties and the unequal percentages submitted and the percentage difference between the submitted and the approved requests, we hold that the activity of the workshop should primarily focus on better informing citizens of the right to free legal assistance. But also according to state administration officials, according to individual offices by individual counties and for reasons of ensuring uniform application of the legal rules because reading these figures is obvious that this application is not the same. In view of the fact that Ms. Deputy Minister, speaking of this report, she directed a good part of her presentation towards what is predicted and in which direction amendments to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, i.e. the adoption of a new law, we will talk about this when we see the bill in front of us, of course reading from the report that, despite the fact that the state has provided funding for citizens, does not require as much legal assistance as there is and that this is the reason why this existing law is restrictive. In one part, we could agree with that, but first of all, it can refer to the provision of primary legal assistance, mainly in part of a legal consultation where it might be possible to open up the possibility that the first legal advice can be obtained without any conditions and without an property censorship, only so that citizens know where to go further. However, this issue of easing or easing property censorship in itself does not seem to win the right result. In fact, citizens in Croatia do not become richer than poorer, and if, therefore, a certain amount of funding in the budget exists, it must be limited because even the richest European countries cannot afford to provide free legal assistance to everyone without any conditions. I'm afraid that if we ease the considerable property censorship that legal aid will often be given to those who do not need it, but it will be more skilled in the exercise of their rights. Often, they need the most needed and the poorest and do not know that they have any right and therefore this also applies to the work of social services and social services, so that this kind of assistance cannot remain closed to citizens in offices and offices but must be implemented widely as it is said on the ground, so among those most needed, and they need first of all to be informed about what rights they have. I therefore think that, above all, we should seek to open and expand the possibility of primary legal aid, so above all, legal advice, and then for further legal assistance, which is, as we have seen in most cases, people are actually looking for help in representing the courts as a serious legal aid for the exercise of their rights. Then, of course, to keep such or similar property censorship because I don't think the state budget is simply going to be able to handle it anymore. The unused funds remained, however, let us not forget that the report said that a million and something, a few hundred thousand kunas were spent in 2012, but was reserved by procedures that are under way over 5 million kunas, which means that they will eventually be charged when these proceedings are completed because, as we know, the compensation is paid to lawyers at the end of the procedure, or at the end of a certain legal action, unlike the project financing of the associations to which the funds are delivered in advance and subsequently justified their spending. Here, of course, the HDZ Club will support the report because it simply gives us a picture of what the real situation is and how the law is implemented in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39741	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39742	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. The SDSS Club will support this report, as previous speakers have said, for the reason that it provides us with a well done statistical representation of the funds invested, introduces us into the model of the functioning of free legal assistance through primary and secondary protection. However, I think that part of the report did not measure things, but it is encouraging that the proposing said certain things in her oral explanation that we agree with, so she detected the clear lack of a free legal assistance system that I'm going to talk about later. So that's why this report should be accepted. Free legal aid in developing countries therefore has a certain tradition and there is a high degree of culture of free legal aid in these countries. We think that when we make a new concept of law, we have good examples in those countries that we can use in practice. In fact, free legal aid started with us in 2009 as a law, essentially an organised project. Until then, NGOs, both from project funding and from international donations, have done so mainly. According to what we have received in the club, i.e. according to the experiences of persons and associations who have been professionally for many years now through the implementation of free legal aid, we can conclude that the current law has not been sufficient to establish an effective system of free legal assistance. It is generally inadequate, dysfunctional, especially from the point of view of the target groups to which it is intended. What are the reasons for that? I'm going to try to say a few key reasons why we think it's like this, that in this way, free legal aid is experienced according to the concept of this law. First, the Croatian system of free legal aid is quite inappropriate for socially endangered groups that it is intended for. Secondly, the assumptions for providing free legal assistance and the procedure for their examination are complex to the extent that citizens need legal assistance to benefit from this right to legal aid. The criteria for the approval of free legal aid are high-level and do not comply with the real situation of the target group for which they are intended. Namely, the property criterion is the thing that was talked about here. It must be cumulatively fulfilled. Therefore, in the property criterion, a set of conditions must be fulfilled cumulatively. It must be a pay below two, I think 2400 kuna, must be an annual income below a certain censorship, you have to have some used car to exercise the right to free legal aid. But you also have a situation where people today have no salary, no apartment, but they have some inherited countries at some minimum. Because of this inherited country, they cannot exercise the right to free legal aid. Therefore, the key thing is to redefine this property censorship and generally adapt it to the real, or factual state of users and free legal assistance. Furthermore, inaccessibility and insufficient coverage of the area, especially areas of special state care with law offices, as well as with associations to provide free legal assistance are one of the reasons why people cannot consume free legal aid in a given area. In particular, it is visible in Lica, in the hinterland of Zadar, Western Slovenia, that I am not talking about the costs of these people that arise when people from these parts go somewhere further to consume their right, and they are mostly the most numerous users of free legal aid. Primary legal assistance must enable citizens to access justice for a wide range of legal problems and thematic ones, so they should not be thematically restricting legal problems which are subject to free legal assistance. What's most important is for the functioning of this system, the good functioning of this system is the means. The funds are, as is said, limited. The 2012 budget approved 2 million 270 thousand kuna. The rebalance reduced it to a million and 200. The 2013 budget approved millions and 800, but it was noteworthy that nearly 8 and a half million kuna were approved in 2009 in the budget for the same thing. So you can see the difference in the approach to financing this problem. Of course, this reduction of funds raises the question of available free legal aid in all its most important elements. It is therefore necessary to introduce, in our view, the project financing of primary legal protection, and also to provide indirect assistance through the release from the costs of the procedure. These should be some alternative cheaping institutes of this free legal aid process. The practice also points to the need to improve the primary legal assistance system, as it should be the basis for first-step consultation to prevent possible expensive disputes in further court proceedings, i.e. secondary legal aid. And when we talk about, we analyze these cost statistics in the functioning of free legal aid it is evident that the costs of individual offices per county have far exceeded the amounts of funds invested in free legal aid in their space. If this is about unnecessary administration, if this is also about comparing costs and solved items in certain county offices, and we can also compromise what is very interesting and the costs and numbers of solved items between these offices and associations, so we will see that associations through their projects do almost identical work for minimum money somewhere below, for projects worth less than 20,000 kuna. It's to be read out of this data. I'll just say a few more facts here. So, according to the experience of the Serbian National Council working through UNHCR projects and donations, we can conclude that the most vulnerable and needed population group is undoubtedly returnees. The issues that primarily occupy their existence are housing, status issues, citizenship, permanent, temporary stay, property issues and reconstruction, etc. etc. It is like a kind of upgrade comes also a question from the field of health, social care, pension system. Comparing 2013 and 2012, the number of parties requesting free aid was 1898 users in 2012, while in the first four months of the past year the number was 264, and in the first four months of 2013. 505 users. Therefore, there is a certain interest in people, obviously there is a certain interest in people in using a free legal aid service. Obviously, we've had a certain lack of information so far. It is therefore up to us to work on building and upgrading a system of free legal assistance. And we think the new concept of the law that you've announced and the changes you've introduced us to here. I think it will be a better solution than it has ever been, and I think the ministry should go to the revision of existing legal provisions as soon as possible to place the Institute of Free Legal Assistance at the level it is today in EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39743	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party of work of colleagues Zlatko Tušak. Excuse my colleague Tušak, Anna Lovrin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39744	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I thought you saw it, but here I'm going to have to say it a little harder another time. So, I just wanted to make it clear that it wouldn't be misunderstood in public. In fact, we were talking about an asset censorship that we can discuss whether it's too strict or not, so the pay limit was put out there, it's stated that you can't have a used car, etc. Of course, we are aware of the fact that today people are going into serious financial difficulties daily, they have to exercise their rights, and they happen to have some property that may be property to them at this point but not marketable. So, what I'm saying is that the existing law that has the concept of property censorship has a limit on the type of procedure, etc., but it also retains this principle of exception to the principle of justice, so that even beyond these limits legal aid can be granted and, above all, in litigation proceedings where the court will decide on this in any specific and individual case. Thus, such extreme cases in which a citizen really needs help will not remain. And the second is this part that you've been talking about areas of special state care or rural areas or remote areas of whatever, where the problem is to get to lawyers and no law offices. So that's why I pointed out the report on these few, three of them, I think, counties in which a significant percentage of legal aid was provided in favour of the associations. Which means it's exactly the area where citizens need help, and I can't get to institutions because it's hard for them to come in here and say it on the board stage. And that is exactly what the Serbian Democratic Forum was very active in when it asked for the opportunity to provide legal assistance. And here's what you see from the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39745	Thank you. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39746	... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39747	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39748	You've completely detected one thing and the other. Census is something that can be a formal thing if it doesn't adapt, a formal thing of negative character, negative effects if it doesn't adapt to real life. So, I said he was in any case basically reflecting some social elements of the user, but you also have absurd situations that despite people being poor, without pay, have no basic annual income defined through some quota have inherited something they may not need. And that's what's restrictive in using free legal aid. In that sense, that censorship needs to be done. I wasn't talking about some kind of financial element of the census. I was just trying to bring it back to life. So, adapt to the conditions and experiences that these very associations you've been talking about are signaling to us that there's a problem on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39749	Thank you. Comrade Tušak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39750	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. In this 2012 Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and spent resources, I would first start to have the right to access to justice is one of the fundamental human rights, and the exercise of that right depends greatly on the availability of legal assistance to all citizens regardless of their material and social status. Therefore, the existence of an effective system of free legal assistance in each country is one of the basic guarantees of the achievement of human rights in everyday life and one of the key elements for combating discrimination based on property. The institutional framework of the system of free legal assistance consists of the offices of the state administration in the counties and is achieved through lawyers and authorised associations or legal clinics. The provision of the Law on Free Legal Assistance stipulates that the use of legal aid will be authorised in all proceedings before courts, administrative authorities and other legal persons with public authority when citizens resolve their existential issues. The users of legal aid within the meaning of the Law on Free Legal Assistance should be persons who cannot bear the costs of legal assistance. The current legislative framework on free legal assistance is far below the standards that rule in most EU countries. The report shows a review of the funds spent for the legal assistance system in the 2012 State budget on individual offices, and it is evident that the total funds for this purpose have been reduced by over a million kuna budget rebalancing which is not good at all and what the predecessors also talked about. By these means, Croatia spends around 170 thousand euros, and for example, if we take some countries in the UK for this purpose, 2.5 million euros are spent, in Portugal 4.2 million euros, Estonia 3.9 million euros, Slovakia 1.7 and neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina spends 600 thousand euros, which is three and a half times as much as here in Croatia. The law on free legal aid should enable citizens to engage lawyers and associations in legal aid for legal actions, as well as equal access to judicial administrative procedures. That's not so much a little math to see a real state when it comes to providing free help. If we divide the number of 5877 applications into county and 12 months, we come up with the figure that it is about 23 average county requirements in a month or if we say it is an average of one request a day, which is really when it comes to free legal aid too small, and knowing what the majority of citizens are in the situation. The problem is in the unequal practice of the Office of State Administration in approving aid and in interpreting a legal provision under which primary legal aid cannot be realised if the applicant himself has sufficient knowledge and capacity to exercise that right. And this is often used as a reason to reject requests to ignore the fact that applicants are mostly an uneducated person or an elderly person. According to data, the number and method of resolving the legal problem is evident that after the legal information obtained, a large number of citizens give up the request for free legal assistance, which can sometimes be interpreted twice. We therefore consider it necessary to identify the real needs of citizens and to provide for different forms of free legal assistance for them, as well as to establish the total costs of accessing the court from free defenders in criminal proceedings to the system of free legal aid. It is necessary to amend and remedy restrictive property criteria that prevent the exercise of the right to this aid. And we heard from the Deputy Minister that we will soon have either a new law or a revision of this law. The aid authorisation procedure should be simplified both for users and for aid providers and additional sources of funding should be found. Since the application of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, data have been telling us that the number of applications submitted is increasing but it is still far from likely those needs that citizens have. In particular, the increase is visible in the approval and use of secondary legal assistance and the use of legal advice as a form that facilitates user analysis of the existing legal problem and information in which they can protect their rights or enforce certain obligations. It is good that an analysis of the impact of the existing law on free legal aid has been made as seen in the report as well as the deputy and, in particular, in relation to the primary aid and the obtaining of legal advice. We hope that the perceived problems in further improvement of the system will be removed. We agree that there is insufficient information on the existence and capabilities of the legal assistance system, and it is necessary to work significantly in this area to ensure that citizens are as informed as possible about the exercise of this right. The report examined the statistical review of the number of applications submitted and approved, as well as data per county, showing that the minimum requirements in Lika-Senj County were only 61 and the highest in Sisak-Moslavina 766 requests. Data are also provided in relation to the type of legal aid granted and the providers provided for in certain forms of legal assistance. This part also contains information on users of legal assistance towards residence, residence or nationality, which completes the report with relevant data. Although the report is good and with a lot of useful data, we Labourists still lack something there, which is what efficiency was like in legal actions, how much was obtained, and how many disputes were lost and how many were completed in 2012 as well as by colleague Lovrin. With that data, it would be much more quality and give a full picture of the situation in the area. I hope that the next report for this year will also have this data because then we would have full insight into free legal aid, and this report for 2012 Croatian Labourists will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39751	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39752	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you've actually pointed out one of the most important facts. If I say that Croatia is actually a formal legal state, only formally legal, I will not say anything new. That's how thousands of indicators speak. One of the indicators you have just mentioned is that 170 thousand euros are allocated for free legal aid in Croatia. It is tragic that in our neighbouring BiH country, which has a significantly lower standard for free legal aid, 600,000 euros are allocated. And now we're talking about how Croatia is actually a state equal to everyone that is not true. Let's say that the poor, and increasingly drastically poor Croatian citizens, how to come to justice and justice if they can't combine not only bring the end together, they don't have the basic needs of life, their dignity is violated. And by not being able to get legal aid, they become not second-class citizens, but 10th-row citizens. Therefore, these 170,000 euros given for legal aid in the Republic of Croatia are the best indication that in Croatia the only thing that is at the level of some European criteria is the adoption of laws in this House of the High. After we have passed the laws we forget about them and forget that these laws should apply to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39753	Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39754	Thank you. So, fellow Vuksic, clearly you pointed out the basic part of the problem that is present when it comes to financial resources and I compared that data, they speak even more negatively when it comes to European countries located in the European Union. It means that Croatia is under-allocated funds for free legal aid. But what's worse is that even with the budget rebalance these funds are shrinking. It means that when we talk about the exercise of rights and the settlement of commitments from these funds, we have about 5 million funds reserved and we, on the other hand, are reducing these rights, so we do not carry out our own obligations, even though they should be paid for the completed procedure. But the question is then, that's why I said my own doubt about it because we don't have a complete analysis of it. Maybe a part of the people when they come to talk, then they're kind of explained, complicated their whole life with data that they have to collect. So they simply give up their request, to apply for free legal aid. And on the other hand, we also have a situation that sometimes, sometimes they themselves, when they are explained and given certain information, see how complicated the whole system is and give up on it and clearly that these are very important financial resources to have an effective free aid system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39755	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39756	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy. Our club will support this report, we think it's what, systematically well-assembled. Of course, we have heard so far in the debate and some very useful remarks about how these reports should be prepared in the future, so to further strengthen them. But I certainly think that we can be satisfied with the fact that here we have since 2008 decided by law to open opportunities, to use the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. The foundation for that institute is certainly in the Constitution. First of all, the foundation of the Constitution could be seen in that provision that says that we are all equal before the law. So that we must have equal access to justice, but certainly one of the foundations of this law, and then the reports we are talking about today is the Convention on Human Rights of the United Nations. The Institute of Free Legal Assistance is certainly legal but it is also a social institute. It enables and helps legal aid to be given to the most vulnerable groups. Those of us who are alone, often left behind, often forgotten on the sidelines but are then quite certain and poor. Unfortunately, because of the economic situation and the number of those who will seek or need legal assistance, they are not sure how or how they will look for it. That is why I also experience this debate in the Croatian Parliament today as an opportunity for people to get new information. That citizens and citizens come up with new information, that such a possibility exists, that such an institute exists. And to use this debate to inform them and to encourage them. Because it seems to me that sometimes people who find out about some possibility of how to do it in the jargon say they're not sure whether they're the ones who, unfortunately, come from the margin of society who's going to be able to use it, can get that kind of help. So we should certainly encourage them. We are also pleased with the fact that when we passed the law, it was not so long ago in 2008 that there were many in the Croatian public and also in the political public who spoke and whose main thesis was that this institute would be misused. I think this report also speaks of the fact that this Institute of Free Legal Assistance is not being abused, that it is being used by those who need it, who need it. And yet, it may not be used by many who would be very helpful in everyday life. As for the legislative framework that the report is also talking about, we can be satisfied, it is good, therefore, law, sublegal acts. As far as the institutional framework is concerned, so too, the administration, the ministry, the legal aid committee, etc. And the data that has been submitted as reported in the report more than or more precisely 7068 requests, that 5877 is approved says absolutely in favour of all those who say that the number of those citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia to whom legal aid is necessary. There's been a lot of talk about property censorship so far. I agree that in 2008 when the law was passed, then in 2011 when the law was amended, it is not the same today in many daily days in the Republic of Croatia. At least here since then 50, 60, 70, when we speak from, the moment the law was passed 70,000 people must have lost their jobs. Therefore, this property censorship should be considered but my proposal is to be very careful and very careful there, so making sure that this possibility can be used by those who really need free legal assistance because we will allow a large number of those who ask for it to really get it. It is interesting to consider legal aid procedures, so most, almost 54% in family-law procedures, and then a little more than 13% in executive procedures, and look at only 3.42% in work. So it would be expected that this ratio of procedures requiring free legal aid would be in favour of these working-laws, but as we can see, most of the time, this aid is required in family-law cases. As for the review on users of free legal assistance to the residence, I think that review where here we see that the largest number of those who have asked for help and received it in Sisak-Moslavina County and then in the middle is Zagreb, and then at the end of that column Ličko-Senj County. I think this review and this analysis could serve one, so I dare say a sociological analysis, but certainly an analysis of the economic and social situation, but perhaps in some analysis, or an analysis of our mentalities and our different mentalities. But let's let those who might use this report and some possibility of scientific work. It is also an interesting parchment that speaks to who our citizens and our citizens have spoken to in certain counties for legal assistance. So we see in Licko-Senjska only 33.4% of the aid was provided by lawyers, and 66.3 cases by associations. Sisak-moslavina more than 20% help from lawyers, and the rest from associations. It's also saying something, but I'm not going to engage in that kind of analysis right now. It was also about the funds that were secured in the state budget. It is good and important that these funds be constant, but I agree with all those who pointed out that we should also receive a review as the most representative body, i.e. a detailed analysis of the funds that have not been spent, whether they have been returned to the budget, in which way they have been used. And of course, given the funds reserved, whether it will be sufficient in due course to meet all the requirements by the end of this year, by the end of the financial year, by the end of next year. Our entire budget is the budget of the 28th member of the European Union, so we need to look at at least two steps ahead. And finally, I think there's no need for a whole new law, but we'll see what the Justice Department proposes. Otherwise, we're kind of faced with a trend to get close to making brand new laws, and that's what I say family law thinks is one of the ones that are really good, that regulates the area they apply to. But I repeat, we're not going to prejudge anything, we're going to see what we get in the new Bill on Legal Assistance. Finally, I am also taking up on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues at the club for far better information of citizens and citizens about what this law allows, which space opens to be truly safe in the Croatian Parliament that through the Institute of Free Legal Assistance indeed help and support those who, without such legal assistance, would remain truly on the very side of society, completely forgotten and completely abandoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39757	Thank you very much. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39758	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister. A report on the exercise of the right to legal aid, the free right to legal aid in the Republic of Croatia and the spending of funds for this purpose in 2012 is a good review of what was happening and what was done in this mile. Free legal aid has been granted in the Republic of Croatia for 2012, i.e. it has been approved for 2012 in more than 5000 cases. When we look statistically towards the counties in the Republic of Croatia, then we see that the most free legal aid was used in Sisak-Moslavina County where 936 applications were submitted, and 778 were adopted, 158 were rejected. If we go further then we see that 17450 kn was paid during that same period, and another 16000 kn was calculated at one request of about 22 kuna. At the same time in Sibenik-Knin County, Vukovar-Srijem County, Brod-Posavina County, the amount paid for the number of cases that were in free legal aid, so the average amount is 240 kuna or 10 times more. I'm interested, and I'm hoping to get an answer, whether it's a problem or in, say, a time delay in payments or something else. So that difference in paid amounts to the number of cases is very drastic, so I thought I'd ask the Deputy Minister later to explain what it is. We have others to say no anomalies or variations on the subject where 328 legal aid applications have been submitted in Međimurje County. We know that Međimurje County, let's see how many 100,000 people as many as I don't know it or less, 115000 inhabitants and, at the same time, for 2012, 309 demands were adopted in the city of Zagreb. Thus, an equal city of nearly 700,000 inhabitants of 309 applications was adopted, and 301 requirements were adopted in Međimurje County. Is that to say it's about a certain tradition of participation or everything in soda, soda or something else. So, looking at the statistics that are exposed here, there's a lot to say about interesting and paradoxical things that would really be similar to a social maybe analysis or something like that about this data. When viewed statistically or in fact when you look at the procedures that have been conducted then you can see that in family-law procedures 53, almost 54% were handled. The executive procedures were 13 and a half percent. The actual rights proceedings other than land-booking proceedings were 8, let's round to 9%. Legal aid in working relations procedures at 3.42%. Here's because the number of employees and the number of pensioners is almost one, so none more of that 0.1% more or 0.2 is interesting and that's exactly what would have been expected, so working relations procedures are represented only by 3.42%, which says that somehow we said I would definitely have exhaled in that field, in that area. Furthermore, it is interesting to note that there is often a solution to this by means of associations in almost 80% of cases for free legal aid in Sisak-Moslavina County. 20% were solved by lawyers. In all other counties except Licko-Senjska, over ninety percent of these disputes were resolved by lawyers. When we talk about free, free legal aid institute, then we see here that citizens of other countries or those who have dual citizenship also have the right to free legal assistance. When the Office of the State Administration determines the conditions for providing free legal assistance, I ask the Deputy Minister whether he takes into account the property situation of a person seeking free legal assistance and therefore, property or property that exists in another country or only in the Republic of Croatia. Whether the Office of State Administration determines in each of the county or in the city of Zagreb its property situation beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia or only in the Republic of Croatia. It is true that the amounts envisaged and mentioned here as really small in relation to other countries, that this amount is relatively small. But regardless, I don't think it's time to waste money, so these State Administrations should also take care of property data for those who seek free legal aid and have dual citizenship in other countries. So, in the total amount for free legal aid in 2012, a million and 258 thousand were paid and now not to speak further in kunas and limes, while the reserved funds are expected to be another 5 million and 238,000 over the next period. What is then totaling about 6.5 million kuna, which is not some 200 thousand euros, but is then a total of which is close to 800 thousand euros. Well then those figures about BiH, etc. They're a little pale. They're not convincing enough. Only the 2012 report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the expenditure of the HDSSB club will accept and hope that, regardless of this crisis, there will be less use of this institute than it is so far, because it is not the aim of society to increase the number of those who need free legal assistance than it does the opposite. As it is not intended in health care to increase the number of patients in hospitals and to invoice to show the work of hospitals, it is exactly the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39759	The replica has Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39760	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So when you analyzed this part of the report relating to data for each individual office, you compared the approval of requests for the County of Međimurje and compared it with the data for the City of Zagreb and thus used only one part of the data that you had in your debate and on that topic can create a bad conclusion. So you used data from Međimurje County that 301 requests were granted and in the City of Zagreb 389 and you commented on the size of one unit and other units of local self-government, and you did not at the same time say how many applications were submitted. In order to obtain full insight, it should be said that 328 applications were submitted in Međimurje County during the reporting period, 301 of which were granted and 440 applications and 389 were submitted in the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39761	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39762	My colleagues, you have proved nothing with your replica. Because if you take the City of Zagreb to have 2,000 inhabitants less than 700 thousand then this number of your increases in the number of requests in Zagreb does not mean that it is one crumb, a crumb small in the statistical sea called 700 thousand inhabitants and 115 thousand, 800 pardons, and 115 thousand inhabitants of Međimurje County. And after all, just to tell you there's no adjective not good but there's an adjective bad, right? So this is not good, it's the invention of our Croatian sports commentators.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39763	We're continuing an individual debate. The first is a colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39764	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I will continue on this last sentence Mr Grubisic said, he mentioned HRT and Croatian sports commentators. I will mention what we discussed yesterday on the subject of the right to access information on the report in which it was said, I think that's what my colleague Holly said about how HRT should take into its programme far more of the information that serves the Croatian public. The same question arises when we talk about how much really Croatian citizens are informed of what they can get from the state, what the state should provide them with and what the state provides them with. So, back in the few months he started functioning the 4th HRT program on which, in fact, other than those outdated text pages don't have a lot of programs. We have already discussed several times in discussions on other topics how HRT should finally begin to perform its public function. Well, one of the public functions is certainly informing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from week to week in which they can get free legal aid. Because what my colleague Grubisic was saying in figures how much Zagreb asked for free legal aid and how much free legal aid was granted is absolutely certain about the fact that all citizens do not know and that they are not well informed. The question is, before I think my colleague Kosor mentioned, an asset censorship, that we should take care of the property censorship. However, in a country where everything is falling, and what should not grow, which is inflation and debt issue, here I will ask if a retired professor living alone in an apartment in the center of Zagreb can be considered poor, can she use free legal aid if she lives in an apartment of 80 or 100 square meters? Because she owns it, let's assume she owns the apartment and by some calculations it's a wealthy citizen of the Republic of Croatia. However, the teacher has either 2800 or 3500 kuna pensions if she has so much, she should pay the directors and now the wise heads say, and especially Croatian Government, sell them an apartment. Try to sell an apartment in Zagreb. You can't, there are 10, 15 thousand of them with some data, we don't have any information about the state property, let alone that we have information about how many in the Republic of Croatia or in the city of Zagreb empty apartments, those apartments that could be sold at a lower price. So, does this retired teacher have the right to free legal aid? In what way do you provide? I'm sure there is, because her receipts are too small, no matter what she has an apartment of 100 square meters. A colleague, Tušak, mentioned how much Croatia stands out for free legal aid. It's like three cars of a higher middle class or five middle class cars. You know we bought hundreds of cars and they said that the Croatian state should rebuild the fleet because it is expensive to maintain vehicles, old vehicles, but they could also buy vehicles at a significantly lower price. It seems to me that lately the state has been doing everything to make life worse for its citizens, not to help them live as easily as possible. This report has been commended by many, and the report certainly shows the state of things. It's good because it's not hiding, it's revealing. However, I do not need to be debated, otherwise the practice in the Croatian Parliament is about the reports themselves. It should be mentioned what they are already about what the reports say, about the state of things and in this area that we are talking about today, which is when we talk about free legal assistance that human rights in Croatia are becoming more and more vulnerable and that is why we should really be very, very concerned. For example, we are entering the EU, and if Slovakia allocates 1.7m euros for free legal aid, and we are 170,000 euros, then I really ask if we are ready to join the EU and what will Croatian citizens get by joining the EU? Many expect from 1.7 that this is a big date, unfortunately it seems to me that in the lives of most Croatian citizens it will not be a big date, it will only be a sign of another fall and one great illusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39765	We have two replicas. He is his first colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39766	Thank you very much. A colleague, Vuksic, namely 1730 vehicles exactly for which the Croatian state and citizens of Croatia will allocate more than 40m euros. Of course I can't say it directly, but here's Bundestag voted immediately for Croatia's EU accession as the last country in Europe. And as for this sum of 170,000 euros or about a million, 300 thousand kuna, I also said in my statement that the amount still has to be paid for more than 4.5 million kuna, and then it totals nearly 700 to 800 thousand euros annually, not 170,000 euros, but about 800,000 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39767	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39768	There's a problem with the data. The thing is, we don't have any, let's say, we're going to discuss state property management, but we don't have the information that the state has. So is this data that's different from what you have, that we have the interpretation of that data. Let's say the Croatian bar of attorneys is, according to our knowledge, the only chamber in Europe that provides specific free legal assistance. In other countries, compensation for such assistance for certain categories of people entitled to free legal aid is borne by the state, i.e. salaries of the state. Yesterday we also talked about a law that had nothing to do with this law, but we also said that there was chaos when we talked about fire, when we talked about financing, how they were financed, about the criteria. We're missing especially in this segment when it comes to free legal aid we don't have the criteria worked out. So from there and all the confusion we're talking about. And I agree with 1730 vehicles that weigh around 40m euros or cost 40m euros enough to talk about how different we treat different categories of citizens in the Republic of Croatia because while some can't drive in old cars like Minister Zmajlovic says his Mercedes is too old, others don't have the right to have a decent life either.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39769	Replica has colleagues Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39770	My colleague, I think you're quite objectively saying that this report speaks of the true state of affairs because so far we have often had different haired reports. And I think that this very report that speaks of the true state of affairs also tells us that they want things to improve, and only by the truth can it be achieved. The fact is that when we see from this review and some reports of, in certain counties, there are almost no such dangers that were lurking and what was before the talk for citizens to abuse. In fact, we can be pleased with the fact that those people who really need it are talking to us. Also, what you're saying now, our bar is also independent of this, given certain obligations, legal obligations, especially the Criminal Procedure Act, where even a person who doesn't want to have himself doesn't choose a lawyer or some other kind of legal aid, that the court sets it under official duty or if someone addresses the chamber directly, it also provides such services under its law of attorneyship. However, what I am using this opportunity to improve the state of things for which you yourselves and also appeal is something that I would ask here's a deputy to see if there is still the possibility that we can reintroduce our legal system to our judges. They were happy to do so, and simple parties should sometimes also be instructed to reopen the days of free judges when judges provide legal assistance to citizens. It's something that's precious and independent of these institutes, I think that would be good. This would also be good for the judges themselves and in that area of the court that they will already receive adequate, adequate assistance in terms of where to turn, to whom to address, within which time limits and to draw up certain, certain legal acts, any action or appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39771	Thank you. Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39772	Dear colleagues, although we agree, this time, this is a replica because the replica is an observation from the site, the dictionary says. So, I agree, this report is good because it reveals, doesn't hide. And mostly this year's reports, a few of the reports we had were like that. They're open, pointing to problems. But now, even though our problem points to problems, our problem is the biggest problem that we do not solve. Already, some colleagues have indicated that budget rebalancing reduced the aid. Whether or not we treat each other differently, I stress the different categories of citizens. They are the poorest and more than one third of the poor in the Republic of Croatia, according to the latest statistics, have become citizens of the second order. This, statistics that say that in fact very few people ask for legal, free legal assistance. It doesn't mean they have money, it doesn't mean they're satisfied with the legal system, it doesn't mean they wouldn't ask for a court of law. Simply the citizens are uninformed. And we need as much as we need to, absolutely certainly increase the money in this segment, so we need to inform the citizens as well. And I've said it many times in a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39773	Thank you very much. It's time to discuss with my colleague, Josip Kregar, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39774	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Free legal aid is not only an aid to the poor and those who are at risk in society. Of course, there are a lot of people in society, which is precisely what this report shows that they feel unjustly denied in their rights. Free legal aid serves another. It also serves to show institutions possible shortcomings and correct them in time. Free legal aid therefore means that those parties and those parties who otherwise could not defend their interests in an appropriate manner receive adequate legal assistance. It's not helping them, it's helping society and institutions work better, in this case, the court. And to the judicial institutions. That is why the legal aid function cannot be underestimated or there will be a point in my presentation to assess how much money we have available for such a purpose. Because the size of the funds is always a matter of priority. And this priority was unfair or inappropriately neglected. Then let me point to two important circumstances. First, since there is such a strong desire and need, people feel that they are cut off in equality and righteousness. Then the size of the funds should be increased but not just that. She, the funds need better, more efficient use. It is not just about paying for a tariff or calculating points, and then according to the circumstances and value of the points, it is about establishing in which cases the company has a great interest in providing legal assistance in a specific case. To be clear in my presentation, there was a lawsuit against the UK, it's style... against the United Kingdom in 2005, in which two men of mediocre material possibilities had a dispute against McDonald's, large companies, large material opportunities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Court of Human Rights has taken the view that the UK's justification to deny legal aid to prosecutors cannot actually be justified by a lack of funds. Or is this dispute of such interest and importance for all others not only called here in this case but for the whole society as a whole that the state has an interest in achieving justice. A lawsuit against large companies where the dispute itself had several hundred days of litigation and 10 thousand pages of a thick file, so the court took the view that it should be helped in such a case by those parties and parties that do not have the appropriate legal protection option. And that's professional legal protection. Competence first. Because in such cases, that's the most important thing. But let me say two things when I have a word, and say hello, which are a positive sign of the changes that exist in this area. One is and first I will support this, this initiative by my colleague Antičević-Marinović, because the service of free legal assistance worked very well in courts. Of course we have now, I would say theoretical and dogmatic arguments that deny the possibility of judges giving such opinions, but the court should care to reduce the possibility and difficulties in certain cases, to have parties get proper interpretation and to know what awaits them in disputes. I'm not sure how happy the judges were with that solution, but to make the justice system work better that way, I think it's true and that's why I support it. And the other thing is legal clinics. Unfortunately, they are too few, they have one very important educational function, not just a function of legal protection. They help those who will deal with the right to see the reality of rights, to see what are actually real cases in which the circumstances they write in the law as legally relevant are not only the circumstances of social status, property status and the like. That's why this report, as my predecessors have said, reveals, gives insight into the problems in reality that exist, and I hope it's also a reason to improve the system of free legal assistance. In doing so, of course, I point to a very great difficulty in uniting otherwise different interests and attitudes of NGOs, professional experts, law offices and the like. But that's what the Ministry does very effectively in other areas, why not in this one. And finally, there are statistics from the European judiciary. One chapter in these statistics concerns free legal aid. These statistics are not completely devoid of pragmatic and concrete political implications. In these comparisons, Croatia is very bad in relation to other countries that have free legal assistance. We're not just a little out of resources, but a little attention, and we have people on these jobs, so the services for free legal aid, the whole system that develops, needs to be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39775	Thank you very much. And the final presentation of Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39776	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I listened carefully to the presentations and I am glad that the report has initiated such a very constructive debate for us. Let me explain the reasons why the budgets are the way they are. In fact, it's all cause and effect. The law and the current legislative system is so well-conceived that the accent is on secondary legal aid. In principle and basically secondary legal aid implies legal assistance in representing the party before the court. That's what's in this data. Secondary legal aid implies that the process is ongoing, it is ongoing, it is not yet completed. It's one of the reasons why we haven't been able to give information about the success of the parties in the dispute because these procedures for their longevity, but it's another topic now, that I'm not talking about it, they're not done yet. This is precisely the result of the fact that there are reserved funds of these 5 million kunas because it is procedures that are under way and depending on their completion that these funds will be disbursed if they are, in turn, justified. It was precisely because the concept of free legal aid was based on secondary legal aid that a much smaller amount was actually spent and that later and smaller funds were reserved in the budget rebalancing process, and that is one of the problems why the money amount is being talked about for 2012. What we are in the analysis of this report and not only that, but also listening to the recommendations we received during public debates and the round table we organised, etc., what we want is to affirm the concept of primary legal assistance. Because apart from providing legal assistance to the parties with the right to access the court, what a respected professor has significantly highlighted also enables the court, or the system, to function more effectively and in the end line to prevent an increase in the number of cases, to reduce their number. If the party can obtain adequate and appropriate information in advance and will then act accordingly, it may be agreed when it has all the legal arguments necessary for it to go sovereignly into the settlement procedure, etc. So, we are at the point of view that we want to ensure the affirmation of the primary legal assistance system, which will then change, by our visions, a significant system on which free legal aid is based. We agree that public information is a key and important element. On our website is a draft of amendments and additions, whether it will be changes and additions or a new law we will decide and not because of anything but because of the normative scope, the number of articles that will change, whether they will require a new law or not. As I said, we organized our own round table, we participated in the stands on the subject, so what's important is to listen to the public react to this. In this context, it is also necessary to find a measure of course concerning social censorship and budgetary resources. We're here to make this measure clear, not to be subject to discretionary evaluation. She will, of course, make some unsatisfactory. But when we talk about comparing ourselves with Europe, then we should compare ourselves with Europe and the concept of poverty, and I think we will need to redefine the concept of poverty, or threatened social categories in Croatia. That's not what we think it is anymore. As far as this proposal is concerned, in order for courts to provide free legal assistance or advice to the parties, the Ministry is still on the side of theoretical dogmatics and considers that the court is not entitled to provide legal assistance. We are prone and so free legal aid is conceived to be provided by those to whom it is within the framework of the job to provide legal assistance to the parties. The Court of Justice may also not provide legal assistance to the parties and to judge quality in a given procedure, so that such proposals should be removed, i.e. to dedicate free legal assistance to those who are also organised to provide it. In the first order of the association in this primary form and later the attorney's office in secondary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39777	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later. And now I'm taking a break until 12 o'clock, 12 o'clock, please meet me at the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-24-0.u39778	Report on the exercise of the right to first legal aid, not to the first but to legal aid and expenditure for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposal, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the cost of funds for 2012. A year.". Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 112 votes for the proposed conclusion.
