ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27209	The excise duty law regulates the excise tax system of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, energy and electricity. This draft law fully aligns Croatia's excise legislation with the European Union's rules. This law includes provisions and institutes and the law currently in force and further achieves the full compliance of Croatian excise legislation with the acquis of the European Union in relation to the new horizontal excise tax directive in the general excise duty system and the obligation to comply with the rates of excise duty with the specific EU directives governing it. The existing excise duties due to compliance with mandatory minimum excise duty types will increase by 10 lira per litre for diesel fuel for propulsion, and 21 liters per litre for kerosene per engine. As of 1.1.2013, the compensation for HANDA and the promotion of biofuel production have been converted into excise duties to energy, which has facilitated the growth of excise duties, i.e. making it easier to adapt to mandatory and minimum excise duties. The release for diesel fuel remains a blue diesel for use in agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture, and we introduce the release for fuel fuel in national navigation. Taxation of excise duties on natural gas, electricity and coal, coke or..., however, is proposed to prescribe a set of releases, exceptions to the said taxation of energy products with excise and electricity, and in particular the release of energy used for other purposes except as fuel or heating fuels. The energy produced by energy and electricity producers in their production rooms for further processing, i.e. production of other energy and electricity unless they are used as fuel for vehicles, energy and electricity used for the joint production of heat and electricity means cogeneration. Powers to be sent and used as fuel for navigation, including fishing, other than the use of water facilities and vessels for private purposes and electricity produced on board. Energy supplied for use as air fuel, except for private excursion flights. Energy to which biofuels have been added in excise warehouses and the proportion of additional biofuels. There is no excise duty on clean biofuels, on gas oil, meaning diesel fuels purchased by fuel cards for the purpose of agriculture, fishing, aquaculture and remains as is the case in the current law, so no excise duty. There is also no excise duty when we talk about natural gas for fuel, energy, electricity used for chemical reduction in electronic metallurgy processes and mineral processes, means in industry when it is used as raw materials for the production of a particular product. Also, what is very important means there is no excise duty on natural gas and electricity used in households and electricity obtained from renewable energy sources and if the manufacturer uses it for its own purposes. So the impact on the population means that due to the planned release on natural gas and electricity used in households, there will be no direct impact on the population sector. The impact on the economy, due to the introduction of mandatory minimum rates of excise duties and the prescribed wide-ranging impact on the economy will be the least possible. Together with HERA and the Croatian Fire Institute, we tried to see which parts of the industry would work and we came up with some calculations that the introduction of electricity excise duties should, according to the assessment, affect the increase in retail prices by 1%, and for natural gas 3.4% of final customers connected to the transport system, and 2% if final customers are connected to the distribution system. Also, as indicated, many parts of the industry such as the chemical industry that most of the gas we use in petrochemicals, then in electrolytic processes, means in the production of aluminium, of the meditrerading industry, of the mineralological industry, means that where everything is produced, means from cement, bricks, products from roasted clay, glass, etc., in all these industries, means that there will be no increase in the production, because in this part it is allowed to introduce liberation, also for cogeneration. We've examined the meaning of these sugars that actually have a cogeneration plant so there won't be any impact in that part on the price hike. It is estimated that 55% of the total amount of gas in the Republic of Croatia is delivered to power plants and petrochemicals, and when delivery is made to cements, bricks and other economic operators to whom the exemption is also applied around 75% of all natural gas deliveries in the Republic of Croatia will be exempt from excise duty. In view of the above, the regulation of excise duties on natural gas, electricity and coke and coal will not significantly affect the production process for the industry. When we talk about taxation of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, the law does not change, so there is no increase in excise duties in this part of the alcoholic beverages, and there is also an elimination of quantitative restrictions for commercial production beyond the excise duty system, so that beer, wine, ethyl alcohol producers, inter-products and other heat-produced drinks used for commercial purposes will be able to operate outside the excise warehouse, so in this part we will also be able to free ourselves and reduce certain regulations that actually torture them in today's business. And related to tobacco processing, meaning during the accession negotiations means arrangements for a certain transitional period from 31 December 2017, so these are agreed processes where up to 1.7 means total excise duty on tobacco processing must be at least 57% of the average price of cigarettes released in production and 64 euros for 1000 pieces of cigarettes, and today we are somewhere at about 52%. So there's going to be a slight correction. Also, by 1.1.2014, it must be at least 77 euros for 1000 pieces of cigarettes by 31.12.2017. The European minimum is 60% of the average price of retail cigarettes released for consumption and 90 euros for 1000 pieces. Once again it means to repeat, meaning the impact on the population and the economy, so because of the planned release on natural gas, electricity will be no impact on the household. And because of the introduction of a large number of releases, there should also be no impact on production, and these are mandatory, so these are minimal. We must adapt to the minimum EU standards required. So, as you know 1.7, by joining the common market, we actually need to emulate this one law that is before us and actually the Ministry of Finance together with the Customs Administration, we actually made the best possible solution that actually when we approach this burden to be as small and minimal as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27210	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. A replica of respected MPs, Martina Dalic, has been reported at your presentation. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27211	Thank you very much. I actually don't have a replica, but I have a question that I'd like immediately for the Deputy Minister to clarify to me at the beginning of our debate. For example, in Article 84 of the Treaty on the Laws are given rates which will apply to electricity and gas. I'm interested in the following, actually. The 2003 directive, which means the day-to-day situation and here I have a table, the situation on 1.7.2012 says that electricity for business use is a minimum excise duty of 0.5 euros per megawatt hour. We here for business use have 7 and a half kuna, so I would ask you to explain that difference to me and what it is motivated by or perhaps I have misread and read in the directive. The same goes for natural gas. Namely, the directive says that the excise duty on natural gas for heating, for business use of 0.15 euros per giga jul 0.277 megawatt hours, which means that one megawatt hour is 3.6 kilos of joule, the giga juule is made up of 0.15 euros per giga jul 0.54 euros per megawatt hour. And we here have a heating business use of 8.1 kuna which is greater than 0.54 euros per megawatt hour and is essentially equal to a non-business tax equivalent to 0.3 euros per giga julu or 108 euros per megawatt hour or 8.1 kuna. So I would ask you why, why the directive, why our law does not allow what the directive allows, which is lower excise duty on electricity and gas for heating in business use.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27212	Thank you very much. You've used your time. Does the Deputy Minister want it now? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27213	Yeah, thanks for asking, that's quite a technical question. So when we analyzed one system, it was hard, so when we talked to the Fire Institute and actually the HERA, it was hard to separate business and non-business use. So we're talking more about technical reasons and then actually in that part we actually brought them closer. But we can certainly make this proposal that is acceptable we can further elaborate it and actually see in the best possible way actually that. So, I'm talking about technical problems that have been recognized for business and non-business use. ... [[I can't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27214	There'll be an opportunity when you get the word to explain it to each other. Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies, the board of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? I find that not. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we go to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27215	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is a complex law, you can see by the weight of paper and by the number of pages and by how many European regulations are referred to. All right, he's marked P.Z.E. It is the right thing to do, because it is a alignment with European directives. But I still think it took us more time to get with the professional people we know and with whom we can get in touch we try to see all aspects and all the repercussions of this law. This way in one or two days it's almost impossible. Why the new law? Well, because the European directives to which this law is called are regulated differently by a system of excise duties. I almost said special taxes. We talked about a special tax yesterday. Special tax is also a excise duty that we must not call excise duty due to various concerns. But the situation is exactly the same. So why the new one. The system of excise duties is regulated differently by European regulations. This law is adapted to this, and excise duties are actually a tax statement of what the state wants to do with politics. In this case, the state wants to tax a harmful luxury such as alcohol, such as tobacco. The state wants to tax excessive energy consumption for environmental, energy and all other reasons, and this makes it a special tax to detimise this type of consumption. The European Union, as a community of European countries, has regulated this very detailed and very precise. It even regulated to the extent that for certain products, product groups and quantities of products, such excise duty may be the least determined in euro. All this is nice, the only thing missing is the automation of Croatian laws that would bring Croatian citizens' salaries to that level so that they can meet EU regulations, wishes, laws, resolutions. I'm afraid it's not like that today. With this, most Croatian smokers are likely to learn from smoking in the next few years. A pack of cigarettes in the EU average costs per euro and 20 times about, that's about 40 kuna, so twice as much as we do. I can hardly imagine, and smoking is a privilege in the highest number of middle and lower middle class cases. It is socially unacceptable behaviour in the Western world which is regulated not only by this but also by the mass of other regulations and is not widely accepted in better accepted layers. This stratification of society will most likely happen with us if it has not already happened. But those who do not have will no longer have any comfort in the smoke once to make their day a little better. It is a similar situation with alcohol, so these two product groups will pick up immediately after a year a little more, after two, three years very much, so we know what it really is, which brings us, among other things, EU accession. It brings us that along with all the good side, maybe this is a good side if a man looks at a complex, including health care. This law provides for a delay in the payment of excise duties to direct consumption itself until the goods come subject to excise duties, which is good, which is good, fair and smart and in accordance with European directives. I don't understand if you want help, but also with the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens to make it a good recipe for value added tax. So it pays the state what it owns when it's charged, not when it's invoiced. In this law it is, so excise fees are paid when things are charged. As far as VAT is concerned, it's not like that, the state is lurking at everything, taking its own, and doesn't care what happens to whoever pays the VAT. The procedure prescribed by law seems crazy complicated, probably is. But perhaps the reason is that he should be complex. It is part of a tax policy in which the state most directly expresses its political and management will and control system, the application system must be developed to the last detail, in order to avoid abuse and to protect citizens. One thing I did if I read the law well, and it seems to me that the deputy minister said so, one good thing is that the possibility from European regulations is used that this excise tax is, therefore, not applied to electricity and gas energy used in households, so it will not directly collect electricity and gas for citizens. But they will pick up for industrial, economic needs which will return naturally to the citizens' pocket. There is nowhere to go, who else can pay the price at the end of the ballad, but Croatian citizens. It is good that it has taken advantage of the possibility that European regulations provide and I hope that this will be the future. Where it is possible to free citizens from the extra cost, and additional costs will appear on the mass of other parties. The task of the government is to do it whenever it can and can. Another aspect of the whole thing, in Articles 86 and 87, is control, quantity, quality of content and similar goods that are subject to these duties. So far they've been doing it, controlling, for example, oil derivatives and gas, so far, it's been done by independent control houses with a number of experts, people who specialize in that, and somehow I get the impression that they've been doing it well. This regulation stipulates that the cranial control will be carried out by the customs administration. I doubt the Customs Department has been trained to do that, and I doubt they'll be able to do the job so soon, which I'm afraid will happen. For example, those who have and trade in petroleum products will write themselves what they have in their containers, such as the composition, what quality it is, will fill out the form and the Customs Administration will peel the stamp on it. At the same time 20, 30, 50 or 100 highly qualified people who know how to do it and who have done it in that black state and who have done it for the past 20 years will be out of a job. How smart that is, and how good it can give, I'm not quite sure. The question is also how will this whole control system of these products that are actually attractive to let me say illegal treatment, in which way this system of controls under this law will stand down to avoid the situation that is happening today with the smuggling of entire cigarette trunks, with the smuggling of tanker alcohol and other illegal goods that are subject to excise duties. Is the Customs Administration qualified for this today? If it is, I'd be happy to give you some arguments and details about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27216	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go with the replicas. The first replica and respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27217	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you said your colleague Vuljanic that those who have no comfort will in some way make their day more beautiful, probably referring to those risks factors to tobacco, cigarettes or others. I am absolutely against such a beautiful day because it is well known how much this risk factors cost, how much the mortality of these users of these beautiful days and how much trouble these people are experiencing is personally witnessing it. I am more in favour of ensuring the jobs of a team that do not have, to correct their natural social status, to reduce VAT and thus will certainly raise health conditions because health by definition of the World Health Organization, completely mental, physical and social well-being. So if these measures are done and the social status is improved, it will certainly contribute, and certainly not these day-painters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27218	Thank you, too. And a response to the replica of the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27219	Thank you. ... I agree with you colleagues, and it is absolutely certain that both alcohol and nicotine are and all of these harmful ingredients, and it is absolutely certain that we should work to make as little use of society as possible, but what most of our citizens have been brought not to the edge of poverty and to the edge of misery but to be pushed across. [[The speaker is not understood for the notice.]] They don't have much left. Yesterday we lifted their practical ability to drive by car, today we're going to end this possibility for them. Tomorrow we'll end some third option, all for their own good, they'll be very well, only they won't survive, and they'll be very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27220	Next replica and respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27221	I need to learn this from a place to say it, but it's going to go well. that Mr Vuljanić clearly, the problem is Croatian wages, they do not follow the salaries of the old European countries, it is clear to all of us and it is necessary to make sure that the costs caused by excise duties do not burden the citizens. It's also clear that these cigarettes will collect the alcohol. It's also hard to believe that people will give up these habits. Here on page 6 it is said that all of this will take effect in that radical form in 2017, when a thousand pieces of cigarettes or excise duties per thousand pieces of cigarettes should not be less than 90 euros. That's about a cca 650 maybe 670, 680 kuna price. On the other hand, a thousand square metres of agricultural land in Istria is sold for thousands of kuna or 5 pcs of cigarettes, clearly state land, clearly selected. By the new one, there's a four-pike cigarette if that kidnapping doesn't stop in due course, and I want to believe that it will sell thousands of square feet of pasture. The emphasis is always on state, not private, which is later urbanised and then resold 100 euros and so on. But now let's let go of that land, those cigarettes, that alcohol. The emphasis would always have to be if industry didn't suffer a new blow so that these higher energy prices don't double-load our citizens. This would not be good, and the fact is, as you yourself notice, that industry will certainly be in some part led by higher entry costs, which will ultimately be seen at the standard of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27222	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27223	Thank you. From 2017 to 2017, we will be an old member of the European Union with a European Union standard, with habits of health and all other European Union. The only thing that's awkward is this bright future, I remember for a long time, that bright future by definition is always in the future, we can't reach it, we're always running out of the bright future. Now he's running away from us in 2017, 2017, he's going to run away in 2024, and we can't catch her. And as for the increase in energy prices for industry, so of course that's the increase in product prices for citizens, I guess that doesn't even have to be explained, and the citizens will pay one price and another, always pay, there's no one else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27224	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. Now it is the SDP of Croatia's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27225	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Director of Customs, colleagues and colleagues. Here's today we're discussing the Tax Act, yesterday we're talking about the Special Tax Act on Motor Vehicles. I believe that even though it is morning when the laws are like this that when we enter the European Union we will be much more in this hall first thing in the morning because there will be no traffic in the city because no one will drive cars like my colleague Vuljanić said just before when after the adoption of this law of a special car tax no one will drive a car anymore because they will pick up the car and maybe a good thing, there will be no traffic in the city so we will be able to get there sooner. Of course it's not like that, nor will the cars collect, but that's a good-looking thing to say. The truth God wants to collect cars, only the higher classes, the more expensive ones, and that medium and lower layer doesn't drive, so I don't know how the Labourists stand out at once for those who drive expensive and strong cars because they want to collect. All right, let's get back to excise duty. We've had excise duties so far, we've had excise duty laws, and so far it's our excise legislation if I can say so either in line with the European Union preparing for the day of entry into the European Union, and this is now final harmonisation. We put things off a little bit, the ones that didn't fit us. However, much is not going to change, so excise duties apply to three types of products, so alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco and tobacco products and energy and electricity, not all and not all. This law solves two things, so it's one thing to solve procedures and it simplifies them, speeds them up because it introduces the flow of paper-free documentation rather than electronically, and it's simply speeding up and simplifying the procedure and that's good. The second is what relates to content itself, so what will change. It's been said here today about alcohol and alcoholic beverages that nothing changes. Whoever drank will continue to drink, whoever did not drink will not drink further, at least as the excise duty concerns nothing will change that by entering the European Union. As for tobacco and tobacco products, things will change and cigarettes will gradually collect. Here we took, or negotiated, some kind of transitional period from 4 years, so until 31.12.2017. At that time, we must agree absolutely our excise duties on tobacco and tobacco products with the European Union and they will definitely collect them because then the excise duty will be 90 euros minimum that is prescribed, 90 euros per thousand pieces of cigarettes translated into our language that we understand better, a pack of cigarettes will be somewhere, the excise duty will be about 13 kuna. Now that we join the European Union, it will be around 10 kuna, so from 1.7 this year, a minimum excise duty which is required by entering the European Union by a pack of cigarettes to simplify the matter is 10 kuna. 31.12.2017. 13 Kuna, and this will certainly be reflected in the cigarettes and tobacco products of others. So you would say someone smokers don't write well, now whether it's spelled well or not, maybe yes, maybe some who are constantly thinking about reducing or trying to cut or stop, so if this law and entering the European Union and adapting to the European Union are going to produce it, then it's not bad. I will tell on my personal example 20 years ago exactly, 21 years ago I quit smoking because then cigarettes were in our country, and we weren't in the European Union, we didn't do it because of the European Union, but then we had these cigarettes expensive because of our local national legislation, national tax, and I then calculated that my wife and I, we both smoked, to smoke about 10 pcs of cigarettes, and that was half her teacher's salary at school. I said my people are crazy that half of the professor's salary is for us to smoke instead of using it for other things. And I made that decision out of spite, even though I was a passionate smoker, I'm never gonna smoke again, I'm not crazy about half my salary going to that. It helped me, and I haven't smoked since. Today, however, the mood in society is, in general, not with us but in Europe and around the world that smoking is not and as it was hundreds of years ago. It was smoking and it was advertised everywhere. So famous actors, famous people were smoking to show what it was like. After all, we remember some of them, but now we see archival footage like this from similar sessions. It's been smoking since 20 years in session. That was, we forgot it. So today it's not socially or acceptable. But it's just that it's not socially acceptable. People usually react when they're hit in the pocket. So it's not a penalization, it's just that kind of attitude across the world and in Europe. Joining the EU also involves proper behaviour. As far as energy is concerned, I think that as far as citizens are concerned, first of all, they want to be kind of scared that now that they're getting into the EU, everything bad will happen to them, so they'll get everything together. Energy for households and citizens will not be collected as far as this Excise Tax Act is concerned. So she's absolutely neutral here and she doesn't apply to the citizens. That's the first thing that needs to be said out loud and clear. Therefore, by entering the EU and applying this Household Excise Act, electricity will not, on this basis, collect any lip. They will not collect for some other users who are not directly households. And I think it's well done here in the law, so everything that the EU directives offer as optional, so at the will of the countries to determine what they want, I think we've taken full advantage of here and adapted to our needs both citizens and economies, so we've freed up a series of activities. So we've released excise duty, or there's no excise duty on air-fuel fuel for kerosene. It's not for boats, except for private purposes and entertainment, which I hope we agree with. It's not natural gas for households, it's not even natural gas for gas vehicles. We heard from the deputy minister, so 70% of the gas consumption stuff won't be in the excise system, etc. Therefore, I think that in the adaptation and application of the EU directive, we have made the most of the benefits for ourselves of what suits our citizens, our economy, and what we have had to apply as tobacco and tobacco products, and that is what is waiting for us, and I think that there is nothing we can do about it that we can change, and what we could change is how it suits us the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27226	Thank you very much. Your Honor, two replicas have been reported to your presentation. The first replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27227	Mr. President, here's my colleague Jelusic. You said nothing drastic would change by amending this excise tax code. It would be wonderful and good if you could trust me. But if we look at it for a little bit, in the last year, the current was picked up by 22% from previous gas 32, heating 21%, water 37%, drain 6.8%. How can we trust you that nothing drastic will happen, that it will not change? I think that here in action is the folk saying that a full of hunger does not believe and that we are not really aware of the situation in which Croatian citizens live because yesterday, in certain answers from our prime minister, it was said that the government did not burden the citizens of Croatia with its legal proposals and new laws. And Croatian citizens daily say that they are constantly burdened with new accusations, and we see it all. There won't be any citizens here, there'll be business operators. My people, well, in these subjects, work citizens. And if they are burdened with what kind of message we send to the economy and investors here in Croatia. So, we're sending them a message you're just investing in, come on, we're going to make some law that we're going to add to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27228	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27229	Dear counterpart Hrg, there will be nothing worse with us, on the contrary, but in any other EU member state. So I don't see how we make anyone do it. But you don't believe there's going to be a gathering, even though it says loud and clear here, I don't know if you've read it. But I'll repeat there's no increase in electricity prices for households as far as this excise tax code is concerned. It's clearly and loudly written. Of course, you don't believe it again. You seem to have received some of the traits of the people you wish to address, which is that you do not believe, because they do not believe anything you say. Well, you're starting to believe the same thing as your citizens don't believe what you're talking to. And how will they believe you when you bring forth false lies as you do today?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27230	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27231	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jelusic, you spoke of tobacco products and reprocessings in your debate, and I agree with you that this is a product that is not possible and is not healthy and has also negative consequences for health and certain negative social consequences. However, the fact is that we also have tobacco production and tobacco processing, that in these industries some work. It is undeniable that the future year will bring about a development that will be unfavourable for them, but there are other places where these industries and employees in these industries can be helped, for example something very little to talk about, and it is the conditions under which the CEFTA will stop the contract, because the markets of BIH, Serbia and other countries covered by this contract for this industry are very important, and in these areas we have very little information about what the Government is doing, which is intended to do to make this production where some people are working, in which some places are fully dependent on it, and these industries should be taken into account when talking about these things. Yes, they will collect cigarettes, it will be a negative influence but the government is also obliged to use all the instruments to reduce this negative impact. One of them is the question of what quotas will apply and the conditions after the contract with CEFTA has ceased to apply 1.7.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27232	Thank you very much and respond to the replica of the respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27233	I really don't see this rationally why if someone in opposition has to be imploding everything and what there's really no reason to oppose it. So I didn’t hear any reason why we should change and what we could apply to make it better and miss it. We haven't missed anything, but you're talking about how he works in the tobacco industry, so you should think about them, so of course you should think about them. He also works in the liquor industry, so does that mean there shouldn't be a excise on alcohol and tobacco because some people work there. That's your message. I don't agree with that. Therefore, people there work, they are not guilty of doing this job, they are not working others but also society, not only Croatian and European and more or less in all countries of the world, they have the right to say that alcohol and tobacco are in some way harmful and should be particularly taxed. If you disagree, please go live in a country where it is not applied, which is not in the EU, go to Albania or somewhere else, you may find it more beautiful.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27234	Stay in our country no problem. We're going to a club debate. HDSSB club and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27235	Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I will take this opportunity since I believe that we all watched that handball game yesterday, congratulate the boys on that great victory, wish them to win the gold medal, and especially here I am proud that in that team one of the best players is Djakovchanin Domagoj Duvnjak, that two more are tied to Đakovo, Marko Kopir and Bicanic and that I hope that here I hope that we will all cheer and win that gold medal together. Now I'm going to move on to this excise tax code that I'm very clear about, first of all, the harmonisation with the EU, that it's also the obligation of the Republic of Croatia and that here I remember as a little film there from the age of socialism that in some tunnel there was this star of five-point but red, now in that tunnel lights up a lot of those yellow stars, and obviously since we've brought ourselves to the conclusion that the EU is not only our goal but that today's our only way out of this catastrophic situation, which led to Croatia's policy above all. I am not a Eurosceptic but obviously Croatia has no other option at this time than the EU. There are several things here in this law so that no one should go to Albania, Afghanistan, join the Taliban, etc., but in any case we can't have this excise tax code under the message who drank, drank, smoked, I'll add who ate, ate, ate, because in one part of it, and in this final provision I will commend the proposal which wrote that this Excise Law comes to the day of Croatia's entry into the EU. I immediately ask what happened to the 5% VAT introduction, which was also a commitment to the EU, which we did not put into effect on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU. Since our Slovenian friends have major problems in their parliament, I personally doubt that this ratification process will happen soon and I do not believe that, and because of some other things that we have to fulfill, I do not believe that we are going to join the EU. Therefore, the intention of both the promoters and the Government first and foremost indicate that no collection will occur, or these excise duties will affect a small collection. This specifically applies to energy, to motor fuels. Government reports that the economy should have a minimum of 1-2% and only in the part where gas or coal are not spent in the production process, which should not have an indirect impact on the output prices or on the business of the company. However, I must say that inconsistencies are still a serious problem in the EU itself, and by receiving new members, especially in excise rates, they have increased further. By allowing certain exemptions or derogations for individual countries and by using transitional periods in which rates should be approached to the minimum, this is also possible for Croatia. However, already existing excise rates in Croatia are far higher than those found in the EU. So, first of all, there should be a harmonisation of existing excise duties. The next question that is being raised here is how this harmonisation or approximation of the minimum rates, as the proposal says, will affect the economic opportunities of fiscal policy in Croatia, is there not one detailed explanation and explanation of the situation which will affect this increase and the harmonisation of excise duties on the situation in the Croatian economy, as well as in the fiscal policy itself in Croatia. As far as this excise tax law itself is concerned, we are aware that we are harmonising them with the EU as one of Croatia's obligations towards joining the EU, but in any case we cannot bring this down under a unique denominator that this is something we must definitely do because first of all this law will affect the new tax burden that will certainly happen. And I repeat that no assessment of how much this will be an additional burden for the economy but also for the citizens. The biggest delusion that some club representatives here say will not affect and will not burden the public, should be made clear to the public, it does not say loudly and loudly, but does not say clearly, it should be clear to the citizens that according to the EU Directive of 2003, 96EC on taxation of energys, the amount of tax depends on the purpose or the difference in business and non-business use of energy and is higher for non-business purposes, therefore greater for the public. And ultimately this will cause a wave of collection whether Russian Gazprom or someone else will come, given that energy and cost are present in the calculation of the price of any product or service. Here's to remind you that in 1995, so it wasn't such a long period of time that I introduced the energy of natural gas into my family house, then the cost of this Earth's gas cubicity was 0.81 kuna. Today, this price is 3.84 kuna per cubic metre, plus the famous fixed cost paid by every consumer with gas in place. To warm up a 100 - square house in 12, 1 or 2 months, you need about 1500 cubic meters of natural gas at 22 degrees, so calculate. It is somewhere around 4.5 thousand kuna almost one average salary in the Republic of Croatia. And many citizens not only in Slavonia but in all of Croatia return to those I would say no more alternative sources of energy but also return to those imported wood and coal. Regardless of renewable energy sources and whatever they want to achieve by investing in renewable energy sources in solar energy, etc., and poor one who heats himself in these winter conditions on solar energy. You can see that on roads where even those speed indicators, given the lack of solar energy, can't work. In terms of electricity, but this should be made clear to the citizens, only last year we had an increase of almost 30%, only for reasons not to save Croatian electricity production, but to resuscitate Croatia's electricity industry for a year, at least such indicators were positive somewhere around 450 million kuna, and this collection of electricity was not enough, so we had to approve, or the government approved a new responsibility for Croatia's electricity industry. I speak as a citizen who gets or gets those six bills per month for the accounting period, and I certainly don't understand this way of calculating that electricity consumption. So I believe that this Croatian Parliament should call or HAZU should call the competition and give the prize. I once said to that man who manages to explain the number of those kilowatt hours, the number of all that comes into the electricity bill that should most likely give him the Nobel Prize. With respect to protected consumers who use this electricity, there has been a purchase of almost 100% because these accounts are divided into popular network or distribution of electricity itself, and in particular the cost of electricity is paid, and normally this is burdened in all of these positions and with the well-known 25% VAT, we have a tax tax. As for tobacco, I agree with some who have spoken about the fact that increased excise duties will have a significant impact on Croatian tobacco production, but the level of price of this product, I will not propagate smoking, even if I want to get away from tobacco, I believe that it will have a special impact on the smuggling and smuggling of tobacco products, which is already present in the Republic of Croatia. It's enough to see all our border crossings, unfortunately it's not just tobacco or cigarettes or cigarette counters and there's not some land to buy for four pack of cigarettes, but it's smuggling and oil, for example. Zvezdino, now is likely to be a Chepinian which is two to three times cheaper in BiH than in our country of manufacture. Vegeta, etc. I hope that this collection of tobacco products will not affect one greater consumption of another product that is similar to tobacco, which is not as much as I read in this excise tax law there is no fee, no excise duty, and it is possible to smoke a joint for its own use. So I believe that the Croats will be able to, since it is no longer a crime, that they will be able to cope very quickly, and because of this difficult situation, they will move on to smoking grass. Not entering now, given that time is already running out, not entering the jurisdiction of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency its jurisdiction was visible, that it was in fact a fig tree for the government's irresponsibility and for the addition of the price of heat heating in many cities where the practical influence of the local self-government units or as the Prime Minister Milanovic told local sheriffs completely abolished, and HERA did what the government had done so that it was no independent agency at all. Now, about who was drinking, he was drinking. In Article 53, I will only warn that not only tobacco is produced in Croatia, in this paragraph 1 alcohol and alcoholic beverages within the meaning of this law are considered beer, wine, other drinks obtained by boiling, other than beer and wine. Now a few years ago, I think it's so written that obviously then beer and wine are not alcohol but are food products which should be supported in any case because wine and wine veritas and Croatian wine production are certainly, especially in the development of tourism and especially in the development of gastronomy cannot come under the alcohol itself. At the very end, I don't know how this law will be reacted to by 372,000 unemployed, 800,000 pensioners who can barely make ends meet, how it will affect this catastrophic situation in the economy, this state in Croatia without exit...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27236	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27237	Yesterday, Pupovac two minutes longer, so you didn't try so hard to be jealous of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27238	He's a different colleague every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27239	I know, every new morning is a new birth, every new day is a new life, and every new night is a new dying, said Arthur Shopenhower, it's one famous German [[Intruder: And today we must also go to Albania.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27240	Okay. I won't comment. Thank you very much. Four replicas have been reported. The first replica and respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27241	Thank you very much, President. Here's my colleague Vinkovic, you asked yourself how it would affect another tax, we can freely call him another tax on the unemployed, on the pensioners, etc. If you speak as colleagues on the left, then you will have a mild, refreshing effect because we have been used to every new tax and impose on Croatian citizens over the past year. Water 37%, heating 36.7%, gas 22%, electricity 20%, VAT is 2% higher, so yesterday's green tax not to destroy air, gas per litre of kuna to kuna and half more expensive, these are all the entry costs in the household budget. Then in the public services of professors, teachers, teachers, we took down about 10 000 kunas at the level of annual income so that simply these people resorted to survival in their own way that they had clearly gotten used to at a time not only now but also for the past 20 and more years. So today we can say that the state may be with the most commercial squares per capita, we have the most shopping malls in which there are many shops, but Croats increasingly go shopping abroad. They buy in Slovenia, Italy, Austria, Hungary, because there they can buy much more for thousands of kuna than in the Republic of Croatia. That's a fact. Then we are surprised here why there has been a decline in consumption, why Croatians no longer enter these malls, and it is simply because all of this policy is mildly acting and refreshing on their lives, so both these excise duties and this collection of cigarettes will simply, not only smoke but also alcohol and everything else that will cause it, not only now but also in future time, act kindly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27242	Thank you very much. You're out of time. Replica response, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27243	Dear fellow, I think you've been dreaming. So many of these new duties you've led to yesterday listening to the Prime Minister say that I'm in a big misunderstanding right now. I believe I'm going to have to think hard about who I trust. Yesterday we heard that the only new imposition that was introduced was a 25% VAT. Now you guys list so much, and I could do a little more than just pick up the fuel every day and so on. Because this is not about compliance with the Mediterranean, close to the eastern market, but rather about filling the state budget, and the fact that we have dropped our gross national income, that the decline in industrial production, etc. etc. Yeah, well, already those famous Croatian pensioners can survive. It was statistically shown only for 7 days, but the hand to heart was not better even for 8 years when Comrade Ivo was Prime Minister, and these two years in that transition from the captain to the little vitre. You have, therefore, as a political option, I'm not telling you as a person you have one big share in this whole state. But the fact is, these guys didn't do anything. So we started this term in 12 months. There were less than 300,000 unemployed. Now it's 372 and that number's growing. Yesterday I look at the minister of labour and social care they have already issued that catalogue that you have as your rights as Croats and Croats in the EU. That means let's go back to Germany at the baustel. That's obviously it and it's this government program.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27244	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27245	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Vinkovic, I expected you as a Slavonia man to talk a little more about the effects of these excise duties on not a small number of people. Because a few thousand people do the production of tobacco and produce one brand that is practically no longer used in the world in production except by the domestic tobacco industry and let's say more from the sentiment than it really suits me. So a few thousand people, first of all, in the Virovitica-Podrava County, will simply have no one to sell that tobacco to in two or three years. And when we look beyond, and later in an individual debate, I'm going to talk about it a little bit more, and in a law that's been laid down like this under our nights, and there's a lot, a lot of repercusions to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and also to the producers. So you're not talking about any substitution for that. Because these people have got to get some new knowledge for growing some other agricultural products because simply they're the only thing they've been growing for the past tens of years is tobacco. And yes, I think simply from this part of these excise duties should be rerouted to help these people move to another agricultural production and I think that this should be something that will practically be accepted by consensus in this House of Commons. Because these people are deprived of the ability to sell what they produce, not to give opportunity, practical and knowledge, and some material support to go into some new production at least is not humane and not to say how much with the increase of these excise duties the cost of cigarettes from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia will arrive because they are not even close to starting negotiations with the EU. They're not pressured by the world's great monopolies to have to coordinate excise duties and other things. It is all negative that will affect the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27246	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27247	It's not just a tobacco problem here, especially in Slavonia. Slavonia was 13 pigs, and almost all these 20 years. It wasn't even better in socialism. 13 Pig, that pig that doesn't come to the breast of a sow, remains hungry and brittle. Sometimes the biggest, biggest, richest, so I'd say the region to which it was now became the poorest. No thanks to the people who live there or those who call themselves they're with everyone else. Well, all we've got left is spite, or else I don't know if you're going to introduce a excise charge since all industry and the whole economy are going to fall... get another excise on fresh air in Slavonia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But first of all, this will have a major impact on this type of production. It also has a significant impact on all agriculture. This will also be influenced by the new Agricultural Land Act, which is written exclusively for large ones. It's not written for small or medium-sized family economies. Well, it's already affected everything that's been going on since the reduction of the incentives in agriculture, the reduction of funds for agriculture, that here we have been the end that was best known for agricultural production, in recent times and in livestock production, the production of milk. Now you already have 50% of those farms closed down thanks to the measures of the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture. And that's a fact. By entering the EU no matter what he says, few are prepared to join the EU in the Croatian economy, in Croatian agriculture and very soon, the truth will come out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27248	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27249	Dear colleague Vinkovic, you said, of course, wrongly that this law would even call for some things wrong, of course leading to an increase in energy prices. I said so, the deputy minister said, but aside from what the two of us said, the law clearly and loudly states that the households of this law and excise duty will not be increased because they are not there. And not just for electricity, but for natural gas. So the households won't collect any gas or electricity as far as these excise duties and this law are concerned. And that's what got us the hell out of what we could do just because we shot people. You're wrong to say, of course you're saying it or because you don't know what I suspect or because you deliberately want to speak wrong. You're talking, so there's going to be a collection, so you're giving examples of how it's accumulated gas I don't know in the last few years, etc. Well, of course, it's very likely that gas and electricity will be collected, but not because of this. If he picks up gas in Russia or if the oil picks up in Kuwait what we can do about it. If we can influence Putin and Kuwait, we can't. But what we can influence with our decisions, we will not produce. So you misinformed people I don't know why. I don't know why someone might have told you or think for yourself that by scaring people more or misinformed them to vote for you that those who are more afraid and afraid of bad information will vote for you, you might think so. Don't think so, let's keep people informed even if we vote for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27250	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27251	Well, I know who's gonna vote for me, but I'm not sure who's gonna vote for you anymore, that's another story. But look, I'm very directed to this area. On the other hand, we sell the entire Croatian gas production in Italy, and then we import three times from Italy, so we sell by example. 1 kuna and we import 4 kunas, it is the same thing, it is Croatian business and Croatian business. We also wanted to influence the price of bread, so we here claimed that we know very well what the law says, what it says in that agreement between Croatia and the EU, which was signed by an EU postman and the Deputy Foreign Minister, now I don't know if the first Deputy Prime Minister or the second one is already going, and it was written there on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU, and then you explained that it doesn't say it there, but it should be from 01.01. just for reasons of filling the state budget. He'll come to the gathering, he'll come, so it says, and in this law he just needs to read it. It also states in the EU directive that taxation of energy and tax levels depends on the purpose, i.e. business and non-business use of energy and is higher for business purposes not for the public. The citizens are only now aware of that 32% resurrection or first - May gathering of natural gas. Just now they see what their price is, only now colleagues Ivo, friends Ivo are aware of the fixed cost you have introduced, are only now aware of the 25% VAT and the increase in the price of bread, milk, oil, meat, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27252	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad you're here for clarity, and with a voice you're enough to say in Dalmatia as I am, but I'm glad that you've made it clear how pricey this will work on those end-users, mainly the price of gas. It's very, you clearly explained it. And then when these experts, then I get the question when these experts knew it would work so far for the end consumers where they would go forward with this increase so much before they knew it. And certainly not now, of course, I agree with you, they shouldn't have even increased VAT on bread and milk certainly shouldn't have, there wasn't time, it could have waited yet. And now, of course, in these circumstances, this possibility remains for these families to go to those alternative sources of heating, wood, etc. And now I'm looking from the position of my environment, I can go and fix a tree in the woods, an older sick population can't. He can buy that tree he doesn't have any money for. There is no money in the village, no incentives, no failed farms, the price of milk and products has fallen and what is now under these circumstances. The only thing left is for the local self-government unit to plant their backs. This winter unfortunately, I have had the opportunity to look at these lists of those helpers for heating, so these are immensely long lists and there are more, and the units of local self-government have already had a lot of burdens so that their backs still impose on them, and in those circumstances what remains of that end-user rather than freezing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27253	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27254	A few years ago, a politician said that citizens live better, and that's all they're aware of. I argue that citizens at this point do not live any better than to barely join the end, that they did not live well eight years ago, did not live even ten years ago because Croatian politics and led to state and duty, led this country to the banana republic, unfortunately because today's state is in charge of almost 50 billion euros. That when you turn into billions of dollars, it's about $100 billion. That's when Brazil, Argentina, those Latin American countries went to Honduras, and that's what happened. Now it's... He says that the moves were guilty, that it affected the further bad economic situation, etc., and we stick to the drunk plate and cut through the citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't want them breathing, eating, drinking, smoking, other than smoking marijuana, and that's why they won't if they smoke for their own use they won't be punished anymore. Now, that's the only relief we've got this year. You smoke marijuana and you won't be punished, but the situation is getting worse. So it's hard to explain to one pensioner, one worker, it's hard to explain why his electricity increased 30%, the gas 30% Water in Đakov has not collected, I don't know in some cities has been accumulated, but the price of water determines local self-government except for these fixed costs and charges that you have imposed. The government of Jadranka Kosor introduced that fixed cost of water supply and disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27255	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have expired time to report a ten-minute hearing. We are going to continue the debate by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. It is now the HDZ's Club of Representatives and the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27256	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well-respected president, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Jelusic will not move to Albania, so it is a time past when unsettled people were recommended to leave Croatia, and such recommendations always come when the content is not available because you answered my question, but we will have the opportunity to discuss it further. As for the law we are discussing today, it should be said that it is the completion and completion of the construction of a system of monitoring the collection and accounting of excise duties on goods for which excise duty is regulated by European directives. For these three categories of excise duty, both accounting and monitoring and regulation and all other provisions prescribed by the European Directives, since these are goods moving in the interstate transport of the Community and their traffic should be prevented from being hindered by any obstacles to the flows of goods, capital, etc. What everything is. Yesterday, we were, for example. they had something else, so something where we have a certain and higher degree of freedom in determining both the height of the rate and the way we use the excise duty than we do with oil derivatives, alcohol and tobacco. But again, as yesterday, we have a law that, in fact, respecting the obligations of membership, does what it has to do, accepts our obligations from membership, but again, as it did yesterday, does not accept and does not allow some relief and some exceptions that allow the directives themselves. Yesterday we had this in case of alternative investment funds, today we have this in this particular case determining the amount of excise duty on electricity and gas. We have debated a lot here and other colleagues have debated the consequences, the costs that this will cause, so it is undeniable that if an energy and gas excise charge is introduced, which has so far not been in spite of the great exceptions and despite the exclusion of citizens and households and this retail use, it will increase the costs. But then the directive said, for those to whom these excise duties must be applied, I distinguish business and non-business use. So the tax on business use is twice as low on electricity and gas, the excise duty is double the excise duty the directive prescribes on non-business use. In this bill, the area offered by the directive has not been reused, but is proposed to be the same for electricity as natural excise gas regardless of whether it is business or non-business use, and the deputy minister said it is not easy to distinguish. It seems quite easy to distinguish, for example, that business use is an economy. This seems quite clear to me that all of what constitutes an economic operator in any economic activity and branch of business is business use. And non-business use then remains very simply public administration, state administration, institutions and other institutions, and can also be implemented because this law stipulates that electricity and gas distributors charge excise fees in paid accounts. So based on each individual invoice issued by the individual users, they will pay the State excise duty. Therefore, I think that the reason why it is not possible to define and distinguish business and non-business use is not a valid reason not to take advantage of this possibility offered by the Directive. So, given that these impositions are new to imposing on the economy, then they should be introduced in the most minimal form that the directive requires for the economy in relation to what is proposed to halve the burden here. If the Ministry of Finance was unable to make that definition, the HDZ Club will propose an amendment along with a definition of what is business, which is the non-business sector and with the rates that are in line with the directives. The adoption and adoption of this amendment is a space where HDZ can then adopt this law. Although it is a matter of harmonisation, even though it is a European law without this harmonisation, we cannot accept such a law regardless of what it is in its other content in the most part in line with European regulations and represents their transposition. But I don't think it's a good practice that now appears twice in a row, that our legislation is not being transposed or that minimal space for exemption and for reducing the tax burden that the directives themselves offer, which the developed countries themselves have been fighting for themselves. So which is why, under the pretext of compliance with the European Union, we would introduce operating conditions that are less competitive at first than in developed countries. Of course, there was already talk here about the subject, and this is the next product group, which is the tobacco and processing industry in the tobacco sector. It is clear that the harmonisation of the demand to increase excise duties on these products will, in principle, reach the price that exists today in developed countries by 2017, that this will cause danger not only for the sustainability of these productions but also for the state budget as such, because unfortunately we are at the edge of an area that has very low excise duties. This will remain so in the future, this process will inevitably and naturally increase the motives for smuggling, and given the length of our borders and its shape it is a continuous and permanent problem that today the customs and tax administration is struggling with, and will certainly be even more future. I therefore use this opportunity to return to the question of the fate of the contract with CEFTA Member States which will cease to be valid on 1 July when Croatia enters the European Union. It is therefore the task of the Croatian Government to do its utmost to agree, by this date, on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the preferential and special conditions of play in the markets of the surrounding countries for the Croatian industry. It is not only about the processing of tobacco, it is about the food industry, it is about many Croatian producers who place their goods on these markets, and who, given their membership, need to ensure the same conditions in these negotiations as they do on these markets as they do today. This happened when Bulgaria and Romania joined, this should happen for Croatia, but what concerns us today is very little or almost nothing we know how and how these actions are taken, and that means that in these industries there is concern because in these difficult times, the Croatian industry faces all the difficulties it is, for it these markets are very important and very important. And finally, what I would like to point out on behalf of the HDZ Club, as well as on behalf of all those who participated in the negotiations and negotiated, we see that the harmonisation of the Croatian tax system with the European Union was not and is not the main source of the increase in tax burden. One part of the entry into the European Union has brought about an increase in certain taxes due to the need for harmonisation, but as our reality shows, it is not the European Union that is the main reason and the main source of the increase in the tax burden that it is facing today and today we are all facing in Croatia. The main causes are elsewhere, the main cause is in the nature of the economic policy that is being led in Croatia, which is run by the current government in Croatia, and this shows that Croatia will hopefully and believe to be a member of the European Union 1.7, will be the source of many advantages and some of the restrictions, however, that it will be in the European Union and to what extent we will benefit from these advantages depends on ourselves, and the example is this. It is not our Union's fault for the tax hike we face, the government's economic policy is to blame, and it will also be in the future. We need to be aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27257	Thank you, too. Six replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27258	Comrade Dalic, you said I was driving you to Albania as a political indifference. God forbid, I wouldn't drive you anywhere where you don't want to go, let alone Albania, especially in the heels for which you've opted for, in which I support you, where you'll take those paths and roads to Albania. God forbid. ... But what I'm saying is, I'm surprised that you don't support this law that took everything we've negotiated with the European Union, not least of what's been negotiated, so I'm surprised to you and your colleagues Shucker, and your two governments were in charge of the negotiations. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As much as you have managed to negotiate as best... for Croatia we have built it all into this law. So what you've been negotiating now is that it's not good enough and why it's in law. I really don't understand you, and that's why I said here is what you're negotiating, we're getting the most out of what we can build into the law and we're applying it together in the European Union where I want us to live together and you and we don't even let God drive you anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27259	I appreciate your understanding of colleague Jelusic, but had an answer to the replica. Dear representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27260	A colleague Jelusic, content, content is important. So it doesn't matter that you gave me a replica, but it's about content and your replica and my speech, and the content is that we will support the law if you fully comply with what I'm asking for. What is included in the Directive and the directive states that the business sector or, or economy may have a double rate of excise duty on electricity and gas than is now proposed. And we will therefore submit an amendment that we propose and in case our amendment is adopted and the law fully complies with what is in the directive and with what we have negotiated the law we will support. Fair enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27261	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27262	Thank you very much, President. Well, fellow Dalic, you rightly asked yourself why he didn't want to separate business from the non-business use of electricity, so I'll try to answer why. Because HEP is in trouble and HEP wants money. The facts suggest that HEP spent only on the Investment Centre last year for 28 employees who worked there and who managed to negotiate only 16 million kunas on energy facades spent 14 million kunas on salaries, the Investment Centre, a famous centre that ended with 12 employees at the end of the year on 28 employees. And HEP is obliged to give a million and 670,000 kuna a month for that famous centre. And of course, then we need to burden the economy with such legislation and interpret it with the need of the EU or by harmonising with EU legislation and the facts speak or the directive speaks quite differently. Therefore, there is no division of business and non-business use. And when we know that the state takes on a pack of 23 kuna cigarettes takes 16 kunas into its budget, when it takes on a liter of gasoline from 10 kunas to its budget it is clear that the higher price brings more money to the budget, that the higher excise tax brings more money and that Croatian citizens have to pay what they want to smoke, do not smoke, wanted to drive or not drive. They have to pay for it. This is the need for a state budget and therefore there is no division of business and non-business use of electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27263	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27264	Dear Madam MPs, you said in the end, at the end of your debate that it is not only a harmonisation with the EU that is the reason for the situation in which we are today and which we have in Croatia today, and that is true. We need to coordinate our economy and we need to respect this directive. However, we are a single country. We also apply the directives in such a way that we don't have to tax what we don't need to do immediately. counterpart Jelusic said by replicating counterpart Vinkovic that he thinks he either did not understand or does not want to understand. And tell me how to explain then that we brought new VAT instead of a zero rate of 5% and on bread, milk, on books, on scientific journals, on medicines, orthopedic aids, on movies tickets from 0 to 5% with 1 January, and we expect to enter the EU on 1 July this year. Why are we applying these directives and burdening Croatian citizens before any of us asks? We're doing such moves and the culprit for this you need Mrs. Dalic when you speak, the culprit is known by name and last name. It's not the economic policy of this government. The culprit is Prime Minister Milanovic, the culprit is Finance Minister Slavko Linic, the guilty is an incompetent current Croatian government. And already in Slavonia, we have another Viennaman singing on the subject of these taxes and impositions, and people say, "The sows have pollinated three of me, one of me and Linic two." It's a Croatian reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27265	Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica. Next replica and respected representative Ivo Davor Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27266	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here is counterpart Dalic, to me it is truly amazing that colleagues from the SDP are trying to transfer responsibility for increasing the EU's or HDZ's commitments as he negotiated with the EU to conclude negotiations or an accession agreement, as if they forgot that everything negotiated has gone through the National Committee that has just led the opposition and where all this has been brought forward. Like they really slept through that part of the negotiations. But what we saw was that there was no answer to your proposal on behalf of the HDZ Club and that amendment. In fact, everything that has been replicated to you is, and not only is it true that what you said is true that the EU is not guilty of an increase in the burden but it is the policy of this government, and it is the fault that this government's incompetence is, in fact, confirmed once again, that the incompetence of corruption is almost as corrupt as it is because, with one and another, citizens always remain poorer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27267	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Dalić, you were really right when you said it was necessary and necessary to use what the directive requires, to distinguish what is what is and what is taxed and what is increasing by excise duty, which is certainly a production that should be stimulated and the possibility of using twice as much excise duty on electricity and gas as energy that is necessary and necessary both in the wood-processing and tobacco industry, which, for example, in my county, is as unique as in Požega-Slavonian. The production of tobacco that has passed strictly on to energy, gas, will certainly be uncompetitive on the world market where this tobacco product is most driven if such gas consumption is left in that production. Similarly, the wood industry where the target as a furniture manufacturer is 97% of exports to Sweden IKEA and uses electricity and gas energy will certainly become uncompetitive with this excise duty and will not have any profitability in the future if we leave it like this. I would agree with you that the necessity and need to put double the cost of electricity and gas in order for our products to be competitive on the world market, so that we can further export. It's really an emergency and a need we can't escape, regardless of whether we're in HDZ, whether we're in the SDP or any party. This must be well considered and accepted as the basis for the simulation of Croatian exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27269	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister of Respect, Boris Lalovac, answered the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What the distinguished colleague Dalic stated, yes, as I told you, the government's intensity was already when this law was passed that what you said in the business and non-business administration was introduced. And we've been talking to distributors for 11 months, and that means we've been having intensive talks for two, three months. I'm just telling you how we got from them, from all distributors not only of HEP but also of others who are gassy, that their distribution tariff models are not adjusted. We will again if we need to discuss this with the Croatian Employers' Association again, so we did not get from them from the Croatian Employers' Association that we did not get to make that observation, but there is, however, if there is a possibility and there is ultimately a need to see these costs, the costs of establishing a system, one whole such in relation to this price adjustment. We say we will accept that amendment, we are considering it because the intensity itself was in that part, but here we will once again open negotiations with all distributors and with the Croatian employers' association to see what time limits these are, it can be adjusted, here I said it was a technical question. So we actually got into these negotiations that lasted two months from these distributors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27271	Thank you, too. To your re-replication, the esteemed representative of Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27272	You said "honored sir deputy" if you have to. I mean, I should because what I'm about to tell you is said all the time. You see for yourself the situation and the introduction of any additional burden on the economy is difficult, and if there is a possibility that this burden is less because this is one of the rare opportunities when there is no significant fiscal impact since it is now zero, so there is no income. Whatever it is, whatever it is, it's going to be plus for the state budget, and if we don't have anywhere to go and we need to introduce those excise duties, then I really don't see any other way or way but to introduce it at these minimum and minimum rates that the directive requires. And Mr. Distributors, so I think we've introduced everything, the OIB, the birth numbers, the business numbers of the subject, there must be a system there just needs to be a little effort. And here it is specific for the implementation of this in front of us Customs Administration. Listen, the IRS from the same Ministry of Finance can do anything, it's a miracle one thing that she can reach, so I guess the Customs Administration is just as powerful and capable of reaching out to the taxpayers in this case to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27273	Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27274	I've also confirmed, it's technical and we'll try to find a solution, talk, it's a time space, and once again we'll open the talks and we'll all, as you've seen, we've tried to adapt everything in this law and in this part I hope we find a solution. So it's about the time and the cost of the distributor. So this isn't about customs and OIBs and claims, it's about those who actually work on that distribution network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27275	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now the turn of the HNS Club and the esteemed representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27276	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Assistant and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. So the HNS Club will support this bill proposed on excise duties. Of course, one of the key things that we have heard in the introduction and in the debates, regardless of all the criticism that the full harmonisation of Croatian excise legislation with EU regulations is and, of course, it always opens up that debate space, whether they can be lower than what the EU directives are, and that is always one thing to discuss, and that is always an open issue, and that is, on the other hand, always the decision and the proposal of the Government and the Ministry of Finance and Policy that takes on certain responsibility for these decisions and us in the Assembly that we are essentially changing or confirming. What I want on behalf of the HNS Club to point out here is a lot of course always said and cried to say so and declares that it is a constant imposition on citizens, and on the other hand we have certain situations that are clearly defined in this law and also that law that we discussed yesterday the excise duty law on motor vehicles, where yesterday it is clearly said that all those motor vehicles that have smaller CO2 will not have any additional duties. Also one clear message here through this law is that fishermen, farmers, have no extra excise duties, so there are no extra excise duties on blue diesel. Also, the message that national line navigation also has no excise duties, which will not only take place in the Adriatic but also ensure that all those private concessionaries who have lines will not have any additional burden, which again ensures that all of our islanders are sure that they will not raise any prices on this issue. These are clear messages also of this law, which basically protects that home budget when it really has to sail or leave the island on land and fishermen to ensure that they have blue diesel at affordable rates without excise duties. It is clear here that this does not apply to households more than once, so citizens will not be touched on this. When we talk about the discussion about alcohol and about cigarettes, it is clear that neither alcohol nor tobacco products are essentially what falls into normal existential rather than that it belongs to habits than to something that a man can or does not have. I'm not going to say it's a luxury, but in any case, we have the right to decide, independently and on the directives, how we're going to destimulate because how we talk about the impact on CO2, so many want to banalise it when we talk about motor vehicles, let's also not banalise the impact on health and alcohol and tobacco products. What is certainly something that has not been discussed, of course, because it is not contained in the Taxation Act, which is that we are expected by the Law on the market of electricity where all those stories about how these excise duties will be discussed to those who are not exempt from excise duties, and a large part of the economy is included in the exemption from excise duties under this law, and I ask you to read it nicely, and you will see exactly that it is absolutely summed up. All those involved in the processing and manufacturing processes are exempt from these excise duties. What is crucial, for those who do not have the possibility of being able to deal with such economic activities as production, which is to go to the law on the electricity market and the law on the gas market that fully liberalises markets, which is the alternative to which the economy can find an alternative, and that is the profit that we get from entering the EU, which will provide us with these laws, which is absolutely what we see in this proposal that is up to 2.5% in order to affect, but ok. We in the HNS Club consider it and 2.5% is any increase and should not be minorized in such a situation especially in the economy because, of course, it is immediately reflected through certain products, services to which this activity is engaged. Through the liberalisation of the market that we will have very quickly here in the Parliament, I believe, it will ensure that electricity and gas are bought on the free market in Europe, that they offer from the European market here at more favourable prices, which will absolutely result in an analysis of this situation involving price simulations with existing price ratios. Therefore, on behalf of the HNS Club, we support the adoption of this law. We also support that excise duties are no more than those that are minimally prescribed in the EU is it good for citizens but we also allow the government to propose everything that it believes is important and crucial at the moment because, of course, the amount of tax is essentially regulated by a certain policy of orientation or stimulation and consumption, and here when we talk about alcohol and cigarettes, it is certainly not something that we as a coalition should support to be more favourable than it is in the EU, and that it is an incentive to benefit from that in the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27277	Thank you, Your Honor. We've registered three replicas. The first replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27278	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, for not believing how many times the ruling government will convince the Croatian public and us MPs, as well as all Croatian citizens who can barely survive how powerful these imposes, the tax terror that leads this government towards Croatian citizens does not affect the living standards of Croatian citizens. Let me give you an example of these excise duties on tobacco. As a doctor, I'm not against reducing smoking, I didn't eat it for health, but smoking will not reduce new taxes but should take care of what happens completely with tobacco producers. This is what I'm saying on purpose because my colleague Shucker touched it and even incorrectly said that the quality of our tobacco was bad. No, no, 80% then I misunderstood, 80% of tobacco production in Croatia is produced in Virovitica-Podravska County, the rest is in Požega-Slavon County. But what's the problem? It's not a problem, and it won't endanger those who produce tobacco. 1300 family OPGs in Virovitica-Podravska County live on tobacco production, but will endanger not only these excise duties, they will further compromise the policy led by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in relation to agriculture, compared to incentives. For 600 million kuna, incentives are reduced by a new budget and this is a real risk to the OPGs. And Poland, which has a lower price of tobacco, has significantly higher incentives for manufacturers. Therefore, excise duties are another form of a truly tax terror that affects the standard of living of all Croatian citizens and you cannot convince anyone that it has nothing to do with it and that it will not affect the state of the household.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27279	Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27280	Dear colleague, of course I am glad that you support the use of tobacco products in citizens as little as possible. The quality of tobacco producers' products from all over Croatia is unquestionable and that is precisely why I do not expect that production will be compromised because the opening of the European market and even in the event of a decrease in production in Croatia, which I do not believe will certainly get a good opportunity for the placement and perhaps for an even better purchase.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27281	Next replica and esteemed representative Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, you've spoken all the excise duties and what they won't introduce. I don't know what kind of a new message it is since excise duties on some oil products that are not going to be introduced have not been introduced so far, so it's nothing new. However, I would like to remind you, let's say, the deputy minister mentioned that 10 limes would be introduced to me on diesel. If we remember when we were making the budget that it was claimed that the compensation for HANDA, so the entire HANDA budget goes into the state budget, it's more than 700 million kuna, it seems to me, precisely for reasons not to raise the excise duty on certain oil derivatives. Where this promise has now been lost and how it is now argued that excise duty must be imposed on certain oil products, even though you took the HANDA money and put it directly into the budget. So even then, we argued that the only reason that the entire HANDA budget is being put into the budget is to cover budget gaps and should be quite clear that diesel fuels will collect at least 10 lips by introducing and voting this law based on excise duty costs despite those claims and promises that this will not happen because there is the whole HANDA budget ended up in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27283	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27284	Well, clearly in the law, it says that, and in this case you have spoken of, mandatory minimum height will be prescribed in accordance with EU directives, so that is what I can answer you to that question. And since you have mentioned that it has not been taxed, or it has not been excised so far, it is not yet known. In view of the discussions held on this law, it is necessary to make it clear that certain economic branches are particularly and especially, which is why I pointed out that fishing, but also agriculture and other economies, will not be imposed excise duties because it is often understood from the debate that in essence new excise duties are being imposed on absolutely everything that is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27285	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27286	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, by all the things you've been saying thank you to the intensities and effectiveness of this law, I think that by the reputation of Peter Kočić and his badger in front of the court, we should say thank you to the governments, thank you to all the governments so far, they've deprived us for our good, always for our good, whichever. We were deprived of the nasty Croatian banks dealing with strange things, we were deprived of the dirty oil industries, we were deprived of the senseless institutes that we had around the factories, we were deprived of driving dirty cars, we were deprived of cigarettes and alcohol, we were deprived of jobs, industry as such, they deprived us of everything I could until the evening. This government will deprive us of something else by the end of its term, so it might be good if the ruling coalition club prepares one resolution of thanks to all the governments that have worked in the interest of these citizens and they've solved these citizens, so now they don't know what to do with themselves, they don't know what to offer to the government, come on and take this, we'll get even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27287	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27288	Dear fellow Prime Minister, this government and this coalition are only introducing order into this country through finance, which through pre-departure deals, by saving a fallen economy, and we're talking about the private sector, and that's what this government is doing. And as for compliance with the acquis of the European Union, harmonisation of the law, that is something that you are absolutely so far, and I believe that you will support in the future, and populist statements are always welcome at least to make us laugh because you said that you are actually also populists, and Croatian citizens clearly recognise who is telling the truth and who is leading the real economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27289	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. The first in line is Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27290	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates. At the beginning of the debate, one objection, Mr. President, is a very complex law and, in my opinion, one very important law for both Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy. It's practically delivered to us at the last minute, and at the neck of the nose is being debated in this House. And if it wasn't for a worthless law, I'll just tell you that the revenue from the excise duties in the state budget is over 10%, over 10 and a half billion kuna. Thus, the adoption of a fundamental law is neither negligible nor irrelevant. But this style and mode of work is obvious that under the cover of harmonisation of legislation with the EU will again assure us that there is no tax. As is the fact and the truth that this law is in line with EU directives, it is in line with what Croatia has committed to make by the time it enters the EU and the fact that new two VATs are introduced with this law, two new commitments to Croatian citizens. And let's not hide the truth here. It is true that at this point, from the old EU member states, none of them have clearly defined gas and electricity excise duties. At the moment it decided to introduce these excise duties into the EU, they brought some symbolic amounts. And that is why counterpart Dalic said that the Croatian Democratic Community club will submit an amendment that we simply install what we have negotiated in this law. And we have negotiated exactly what other EU members simply did not want their citizens and burdened their economies with some new large amounts of tax because they did not know what the effect would be but brought some minimum amounts and we have just negotiated amounts that are twice as small as those proposed by this law. Why is the government going to double the amount? Justifying that those who were supposed to be the foundations of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, these famous and public enterprises are unable to implement something, but Croatian businessmen and Croatian citizens should ultimately pay it tomorrow because they have to pay. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, the revenue from ghost and tobacco processing is somewhere around three and a half billion kunas per year, no matter how much and especially how much we ex-smokers say we're against cigarettes, etc. But that's three and a half billion dollars paid by Croatian citizens in their pockets. When you look at the amount of excise duties on oil and oil products, they are somewhere near 5 billion kuna, perhaps even something beyond that and most of it is paid by Croatian citizens and are mostly paid by the Croatian economy. We are now opening up the possibility that something should be as it is, just as in yesterday's Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles if you noticed I think this Article 12 paragraph 7 is given the possibility for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to change the amount of excise duty during the year as if the mission of carbon monoxide and car prices would change significantly, so there needs some swimming excise duties such as that in motor and gasoline where virtually every week the market changes, or the situation on the market, and should react with prices. So much for what we disagree with. So, we will support this law if you install the excise duties that are negotiated inside. If you use what all EU members use, they have satisfied the legal form, they have satisfied to comply with their legislation with the directives, but minimalist. So, it's about support and non-compliance with the law. And now colleagues and colleagues with regard to tobacco processing, tobacco production. Comrade Buric, I did not say that this tobacco is bad, but that virginia tobacco is unfortunately no one uses in the production of cigarettes. And the only one who uses it is unfortunately the only one, but at this point probably the most profitable company in Croatia, we won't advertise it and it uses it more for, say, some kind of patriotic reason, than it really could do on the world market. However, and what I expected Lalovac to say because it is very important, unfortunately excise duties are one very specific to say the area and in Croatia deals with very few people and very few people know how to calculate excise duties on tobacco, and it is this model that calculates the excise duty on tobacco that will lead to this domestic factory asking whether, when this is brought together in a few years, it will be possible to survive on the world market, because the way in which the excise duty is calculated on tobacco gives the possibility to those who are stronger, who is more involved in the market, that practically at the expense of their own profits, they will lower a very small price and that producer that produces much less will not be competitive anymore. Also, when you have an unsettled market around you unfortunately in our environment it is so, when you have a big difference in excise duties since cigarettes and tobacco are so-called. The high tariff goods then you're exposed to both smuggling and everything that's going on. 'Cause look, I'm going over Sava, I'm bringing in two cartons of cigarettes, and it's worth a lot more than doing some kind of business where your salary is 2500 or 3000 kuna a month. It's a fact and it's the truth that we can't escape from. But what I was saying in the replica is a few thousand producers in Virovitica-Podravska and Požega-Slavon County. And just in two or three years, that tobacco they produce will have no one to sell to. What about these people? They simply need the government to find a model and way to help them start dealing with something else, because unfortunately in these two counties, the economy has fallen completely. And what was that economy was working intensively with very, very low wages. And these are the facts that should be said here when we talk about this law because it will simply, if we don't talk about it, if we don't think about it, it will welcome us as a boomerang tomorrow and it will only hit us on the head. In fact, unfortunately, these men and the army of 370,000 unemployed will be shot down, unfortunately, by those who still have something to live on and feed themselves and their family on. And what is not good for the finance ministry colleagues is such laws that bring ten and a half billion kuna into the state budget because it is practically the most issued if you ask the tax collectors and customs officers the most expensive tax because they are most easily collected because this is not good not listed to the same extent. And if you said that it is impossible to apply this provision that this excise duty is on electricity, then you can't say that the costs of implementing this law are nothing, because every tax law when it comes to this House, when the government passes, must contain a fiscal effect because if you pass a new tax law, then you have to tell MPs who will raise their hands for or against that law and above all Croatian citizens how much you're going to break them again in your pocket or you're going to tell them no, we're going to leave so much lip or kuna more in your pocket because it's simply such a bill that has to contain. But my bill can't contain it because look you were saying what your colleague Popio said when you picked up 700 million kuna from HANDA that it was, and that you basically nivelied excise duties on diesel so you wouldn't have to increase excise duties. And now it's rising by 10 lime excises per diesel. Add to that 25% of VAT, and then it's no longer 10 or 12 and a half lip and how it's already going with us. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I think, together, we should all support this HDZ amendment, which will later explain on behalf of the club in an additional five minutes, and let's finally stick to the fact that we are meeting the EU's minimumist and not maximumist conditions, because if we were able to negotiate something that is double smaller, then we put it in the law twice as small, and not twice as big, otherwise we would simply have to say that the government is also passing this law to cover the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27291	Thank you very much. We're on our way to replication. First up is Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27292	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Representative. Well, I'd refer to two allegations of a respected representative, but let's start at the end. One is tied to tobacco growers. Of course, I, like my colleague Buric, support the detimisation of tobacco consumption or tobacco abuse. However, it should also be made very clear that those who live on tobacco farming must actually be subsidized directly and thus encourage them to start growing another culture. No one else can do this but the state and this is exactly in line with European recommendations but also in accordance with the World Convention on Smoking Reduction. So it has to be actual or stop talking floscule because it's the only way to do it. The second thing that is very important to say is that today, too, we are aware of this bill that this will increase the burden in terms of giving Croatian citizens. I purposely point out once again precisely because here yesterday, at the time of the current hour, we had the opportunity to listen once again to the Prime Minister who said that no tax press in Croatia has been increased in the last year, but only that VAT increase is simply not true. We all know, citizens know, every day they know that it's not true, every day they know that they're getting harder and harder to live in part and because the tax press has increased and this is just one of the forms of additional dandruff on these citizens. So let us stop, please, telling the truths here and the Croatian citizens are not increasing to impose on Croatian citizens, and that is one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27293	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27294	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Reiner yes, we had a chance to hear in Croatia yesterday not increased taxes. We could now make a beautiful leprechaun, unfortunately Croatian citizens with everything that emptied their pockets in the past year. The same with this law and no matter how many they were introducing two new taxes. As they will be tomorrow, as other EU members will behave, Croatia will also have to. So we're definitely introducing two new taxes, but your colleague Reiner to you as a great medical expert, I think if these excise duties are going to go up in the coming years and that's certainly going to increase budget revenue by about a billion, a billion and a half kuna. Well, it would be logical, as we have those 60 lips for highways and roads, if at least half of those billions of kunas were set aside for some medical research, to treat and improve the treatment of those diseases directly affected by tobacco. I think it's the same thing this High House should think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27295	Replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27296	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, you should always speak so that people understand you, you now and in your debate have said well. No need to run, this bill introduces at least two new imposes, two new tax burdens on Croatian citizens and all those who are trying to convince us and Croatian citizens that this will not affect citizens' living standards then let them look only at where energy and electricity are. The excise charge is paid on energy used as fuel or fuel for heating and electricity, therefore there is no way that this ultimately does not affect the bills that Croatian citizens will receive every month. but we are constantly talking about harmonising with EU directives, and we are harmonising taxes, so we are harmonising prices. And I ask and when will this government start working on what it has gained the trust of Croatian citizens? When will we begin to align with the EU salaries of Croatian citizens, pensions of Croatian citizens? When we begin to coordinate employment with the standard of countries that were our role model and because of which we do not enter, Croatian citizens decided not to join the EU because of the example of Greece, but because of the example of Germany. Why don't we start talking about it once? And we do everything the opposite, not us, this government does everything the opposite. So, when it comes to taxes and imposes, we hurry before we have to balance prices, prices, and taxes, and taxes, and when it comes to wages, then we stick our heads in the sand and instead of opening new jobs, here we heard the smart statement from the minister of work today that unemployment will start falling when we start opening new jobs. Brilliant, here's to the Nobel Prize.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27297	Comrade Buric, please pass the time for replica every time. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27298	Yes, counterpart Buric is a protracted list of new taxes but it is very interesting that one tax harmonising Croatia's legislation with EU legislation but which brings a billion-and-a-half to the budget would have to be brought to 1.1 because 750 million would have been lost. But these taxes, which are now small at first but you'll see they'll grow as well as bread when you mix it so from the vertices, so these taxes will grow, they're introduced from 1.7 because fiscally they're not as interesting at the moment, but opening up the space of evil shouldn't have raised that tax tomorrow the same way as the space opened up with the 12th paragraph of the motor vehicle that the government at the time they needed to raise that tax. So definitely this law introduces two new taxes. But this law can go back to 1.7, and whoever brings a billion and a half has to go from 1.1, is 850 million is a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27299	Replica, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27300	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Shuker right here, and you pointed out that these introduce two new taxes but are constantly under the pretext to do so because of the EU, without once again getting a clear answer, and why with rates twice as high as what could be under that same directive. What's that answer? We have heard from the deputy that, in principle, at least as regards the very main amendment messages the HDZ Club will propose to agree but that these talks or negotiations with distributors are still under way. But he asks me how to come up with one proposal if it isn't prepared for the bill successfully done? So, once again, why not take advantage of the opportunities that the EU directive itself gives to impose if they must already be introduced in half for both gas and electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27301	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27302	Thank you very much. As I propose this amendment to go with the minimum amount that we need to comply with the legislation with the EU, we have also proposed, when proposing the second law to raise the zero rate to 5%, that the rate of 5 or 10% be imported into fresh meat, in such a way, to resuscitate the increase in these prices to Croatian citizens in a certain way. Even then, the promoter did not accept it for this reason or that reason. But I think I say one roof income law that brings about 10.5 billion kuna to the state budget would be good to bring consensus to the Croatian Parliament, with the fact that the HDZ amendment does not go to politics but goes to respect what we have been able to negotiate. Because the people who negotiated this struggled for years to get these minimum conditions because it did not know what the situation was like in the EU. So what counterpart Dalic will later explain is not politics but let's join the EU with a minimum, a minimum of what we will burden Croatian citizens with. We press HEP and those who need to figure out how to do it, let them do it because they live on these Croatian citizens. And I say colleagues and colleagues would be good if we could pass this law by consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27303	Replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27304	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you spoke very clearly about all the aspects of this difficult situation of the economic crisis that new taxes bear and what the new excise duty carries in terms of production itself. Production burdened with new excise duties such as tobacco production, woodworking production certainly carries for itself incompetence and non-profitability. With this non-profitability, there is also a reduction in jobs as we constantly see them shutting down and disappearing. Only in the tobacco production of 1500 co-operatives in one company, 250 in the other make up 1750 tobacco-produced cooperatives. The power plant for the dryer is the gas, the auxiliary fuel is the waist. How much will the price of this product eventually be and how many jobs will disappear? We have no alternatives. In the sub-level pool, the country is sandy and only tobacco succeeds on it and there is no alternative because irrigation is not even started, there is no money for irrigation, there is no alternative culture and there are no new jobs. With these loads that are maximum, which could be twice as low as we suggest, we would certainly achieve at least certain effects of keeping these 5250 people in tobacco production if we count that each family household has three members. I believe that reason will prevail this time and that you will take what is the lowest measure in the directive to help the difficult situation of maintaining jobs with minimum excise duties and tobacco and tobacco products and to what is the export product in the wood industry, and energy is electricity and gas. I trust you won't go...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27305	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27306	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, colleague Djakic, you're right. That's why I just mentioned tobacco producers because their share of GDP in Virovitica-Podravska County is and požega-slavonski is not small. Also, everything that is around them is also not negligiblely small. Why was I talking about the total revenue in the state budget on excise duties? Look, we are so concerned with the story of the capital gains tax, about the profit tax, but the tax revenue in the 2012 budget, and if you look at the 2013 budget proposal is double the profit tax. And then if that's so important for the budget believe someone's paying for it, and whoever's paying it's really tanging for what they're gonna pay for it. So let's not say something doesn't matter. And if, with these changes in excise duties, we put a certain economic branch in place that will simply disappear from one area, then this law is not negligible and did not deserve to be discussed in this way, in return for the application, over the night let's discuss it, so that's how it's going to be. I understand colleagues from the ruling coalition, they are not interested in talking here today about sending a message to Croatian citizens, especially in the election year for local elections, that this government is starting with a list of new taxes. But listen to your colleagues, that's your problem, not ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27307	Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27308	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, you're right, Mr Schuker, it is incomprehensible that the Croatian government continues with the economic policy that threw the Croatian economy on its knees in 2012, and we all know the figures, -2% of the GDP in 2012, 370,000 unemployed, so 60 thousand more than in 2011, and instead of all the powers this government is fighting to raise the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, so it introduces and imposes new burdens at levels that are higher than those in competition in the Member States of the European Union. And it is not true that the technical reasons are a prerequisite why this cannot be otherwise, namely we well know that suppliers of electricity each year sign contracts with business entities, that there are so many indicators that fellow Dalić spoke where distributors and suppliers can position themselves according to a specific category of business entities and where it is possible to take this important step towards raising the competitiveness of the Croatian economy by not raising their excise duties where and at that height where it is not really necessary and where none of us is asking. But we know, the budget is always a hungry couple, so like the public, when they transferred 700 million HANDA to the state budget, they're still raising diesel excises for 10 lips, and this is definitely the fundamental reason why they charge the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27309	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27310	Yes, a colleague of Popijac, a law that takes 5 billion per opportunity for Croatian businessmen from their business, must be very important for them. A law that will allow someone tomorrow to increase the price of energy without whom they can't, and no one can say it doesn't matter. However, there is something very interesting, I will not advertise here but one of the companies these excise duties relate to is invited to save one Croatian shipyard, certainly one of the largest investors in the Republic of Croatia. Today, when these excise duties are evened, the question is whether the company will exist and the question is whether the new one, if they decide to sell, will the new owners have so much hearing to help certain economic branches in Croatia in which they should help. And that is why this law deserves our attention, which is why this law deserves to be passed with consensus and therefore this law deserves colleagues from the Ministry of Finance to accept the amendment that will propose the HDZ club because we simply send a message that we are thinking about both Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27311	And Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27312	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, I've noticed your thinking or perhaps the dilemma that this or that kind of tobacco is bad. I would add that regardless of what kind that it is harmful to health, it is most valuable. Even on the pack of cigarettes there's smoking killing. It is necessary to repeat in this place those statistics that let's just say in bronch cancer that the smoker is almost 14 times more likely to suffer from bronch cancer. It is necessary that the exposure of bronch smokers to obstructive diseases is also significant statistical, not to say that smokers are 10% more sick than other populations. Price, smoking costs are about 3 billion. These are all data that give us further efforts to raise awareness of the public especially of young people because unfortunately the age limit of young people is moving, and young people are frustrated, immeasurably frustrated, and it is not difficult to go into the path of addiction. That's why you have to be careful with those statements. See, I've been smoking easy drugs. I'm like this, I'm like that. And secondly, you need to improve the quality of life, what's promised in program 21, and the quality of life as we see it is collapsing. So these are all high-risk factors and, of course, this health component should also be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27313	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27314	Yes, colleague Milinkovic. That's why I said when I replicated my colleague Reiner that part of these increased revenues based on increased tobacco excise duties should be directed towards health care. But my colleague Milinkovic, you said that smoking kills. But it should also be added that this government, with its way of working, also kills the last bar of optimism among Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27315	And a five-minute debate on behalf of the HDZ club, co-worker Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27316	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, as I pointed out in the debate with all the arguments that were mentioned during the debate on behalf of the club as well as individually from my colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club has submitted an amendment proposing that Article 84, which establishes the level of excise duty for all categories of these products, which, whose excise duties are regulated by this law, reduce the excise duty on natural gas for heating for business use from 8.1 kuna per megawatt hour to 4.1 kuna per megawatt hour, and that the excise duty on electricity and tariff codes... for business use, reduce from 7 and a half kuna per megawatt hour to 3.75 kuna per megawatt hour, as established by the relevant directive which is transposed by this law into our legal system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Deputy Minister is the reason why the ministry has proposed that these lower rates should not be applied, so it has proposed equal tax burden for the economy, i.e. business use and for non-economic operators the inability to define what is business use and what is non-business use. However, in the same article, the Ministry of Finance and the Proposer made that definition themselves, and said that, for the purposes of this law, business use is considered to be the use of economic operators which self-delivery of goods and services independently of purpose or economic activity. The economic operator shall also be considered as legal persons who, in a organisational sense, represent an independent unit capable of acting alone by means of their own resources. So, exactly the opposite of what the deputy minister said, the promoter himself defined the business relationship and non-business use, i.e. that business use represents the economy. We therefore propose to our amendment that, for the purposes of practical implementation of this proposal, the lower burden on the economy, the Government, by its regulation within a month of the adoption of the law, should make this paragraph 11 even more detailed if it considers it necessary. So the bill itself clearly states that neither the technical definition nor the inability to distinguish what the economy is and that the economy cannot be a reason not to accept what the directive provides. We therefore believe that this amendment, at the time when these excise duties must be introduced, allows, in addition to the release of households, citizens of their full exemption from paying excise duty on electricity and gas and only the economy to bear a minimum burden and the least possible burden prescribed by the Directive. In the event of the adoption of this amendment, the Croatian Democratic Union will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27317	Thank you very much. Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27318	Here's a coincidence. It's not five to 12, it's 12 and 5, but we're in, so that's the official light. They may not be very consistent, but in any case, we are at the end of the first month and I agree that this law should try to pass by agreement. There is a Croatian word for consensus, colleagues from HDZ. But there's plenty of time for this law to go to another reading. Not only do we want to reach an agreement, but this law also needs important changes. There is plenty of time to discuss since the application of this law is on the date of Croatia's entry into the EU. Isn't that right, fellow Lalovac? So we have plenty of time. Meanwhile, I have been called by numerous wine producers where I would say food product and important tourist potential in Croatia, and we swear and we are talking that tourism can get us out of this universally deep glare so that I don't use some rough word so that this particular toilet paper must be used. There is also an article 53 that is really funny written, where practical wine becomes alcohol at one point is not. So here I appeal and related to numerous therefore and quality wine producers and quality varieties primarily to help viticulture and that part of agriculture to avoid paying these excise duties because, in my opinion, wine is not alcohol. There may be alcohol if you drink it a little more in a certain amount, but I believe the Croats are not Dionysus and are not participating.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27319	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. Look at the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27320	It's been a while since Madam Vice President's last word came out. Here...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27321	Thank you. The final word of Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27322	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's what I'm going to start with, Mr. Vinkovic. The definitions are actually in this section taken over from the directive and we are in line with that part. The wine is, the excise duty is zero and as you know by reducing VAT from 25% to 10% in this segment we hope in this part we have helped our wine producers to place their products as a tourist product this summer on the Adriatic and what we have been saying all along. By reducing VAT that in this part of the caterers, we will to the food in that part of the product that we will encourage production means specifically related to wine, so there is no excise duty and VAT is allowed to be competitive. I said here about here how much I saw the main debate in this part of business and non-business, and I'd go up to my colleague Shuker when he said you'd squeeze HEP. Well, I wish it were eight years when this HEP was ruled out and that HEP was squeezed for eight years when it was ruled so that it wouldn't have the kind of energy price effect that this government could actually carry out. To manage HEP more rationally for eight years we hope that no such price shock should have taken place so that certainly one part of the responsibility without saying much responsibility is on HEP because of this price policy that the government had to implement, rather than by administrative measures, to introduce the company into a loss so that certainly the HEP's business is one of the big and responsible why what is happening to our market is actually happening when you were talking and coordinating and that you were communicating with HEP whether they can technically implement that part of the separation business and non-business zone and that it happened three, four years ago they would be ready to apply this directive as you say. I was not talking about the technical definition of Mrs. Dalic, but I was talking about the operators who told us that in their systems they have difficulty in separation. I wasn't talking about a technical definition like you misstated here. So I wasn't saying that there's no definition, as far as definition is concerned, but that there's an operator problem. So I said we respect all concrete suggestions. Your proposal is, in fact, concrete and you have seen that we are many and many of these demands that we have discussed and adopted. We will once again talk to distributors and HEP, certainly also with the Croatian Employers' Association in which the most painless way to spend this part of the separation and see what time is actually possible and are actually ready for this part of what you will propose in this part of the amendment, to see how much is the cost of establishing the system and how much is the price at which part is sold. I told you it was the government's first-case intensities, but in this debate that we had with three, we talked to all distributors not only with HEP, but also with those who distribute gas, which there are plenty in this segment. So that's what we're going to consider in that part. But I have to be honest that I was a little distracted when you said Mr. Shucker that this government is killing by way of work, and I have to tell you that since this government came in, at least I can say in my personal name, when we came to the Ministry of Finance and when we actually started dealing with real real real problems, that's the problem of the economy whether everything we actually try to do when we establish a stable economy, then there won't be a problem either fiscal effect, there won't be a problem or a tax burden, but you know that for a year and the law and preparation, every day we talk about the upcoming settlements. You have seen how many companies have reported and that the government is making extremely huge efforts to restructure the economy and that we are aware that without restructuring the real restructuring of the economy, this will not be possible, improving the living standards of our citizens and ultimately reducing all tax duties, but I would once again point out here that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done all possible acts to reduce the tax burden if you know from 25 to 10%, you know that we have also reduced the income tax. That we said that the one who's going to invest that won't pay it that we've even raised the VAT threshold to release the citizens in that part, you know that we've reduced the contribution by 2%. Look, when you leave a deficit of 5% and 15 billion and we leave with the big structural problems of our budget where they are, which are real, that's what we don't run away from means clearly and present the state of the budget. The government is doing everything as much as it can to actually dissipate the economy. We're doing everything we can to keep those qualifications from working. You'll see the effects, the effects of inequitability in this part of the year as you know four months have begun to decrease. We're hoping to be there in six months. We've set clear deadlines. We set deadlines when we came to 41.6 billion kuna, today we're somewhere on 42 billion kuna in a year in extremely difficult years to keep this indifference under control, that we're active, that we're working with active measures on it. I only wish the same thing when that indifference started since 2008, when it was 28 billion when it came to 44 billion that there were some concrete measures. We talk all the time about concrete measures, and I would not like to see the part where the government is qualified to work in that part. It works as much as it actually allows for economic opportunities, we are on the ground, we are talking to people and the government will continue to go on reducing tax burdens as soon as the economy in that part actually starts to recover and start creating economic recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27323	Thank you very much. And now we're going to six replicas. Zoran Vinkovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27324	Dear Deputy Minister, here while you were talking, six people are out of a job, six people, it's daily statistics on how many people are out of a job. Well, it's probably the effects of all these measures not only implemented by the Ministry of Finance but by the entire Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today in the government we have about 730 million kunas that will go towards the incentives of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, etc. However, the main indicator of one country's development is an increase or decrease in the number of unemployed, increase or decrease in production, gross national income, all these indicators say that you are wrong. It was nice listening to you, talking better than Milanovic, only citizens look at each other's eyes. Especially those who lose their jobs every day. And we can't say that nothing will happen when, first of all, we get into the EU and not just cigarettes, not only fuel, not just energy, so that bread and that kilo of meat and kilos of apples and gallons of milk and liters of oil, because it's all about the price of energy, the price of fuel, the price of electricity, the price of gas and let's not fool ourselves. There's plenty of time to get to that 1.7-phase so we can just chew this one more time. It is to me that there is no Minister Linic who has the possibility of cast on behalf of the promoter I withdraw this proposal and we go to another reading. You don't have that option, and that's why you're here a lot, because you can't withdraw the proposal. And you know for yourself that there will be a collection as you knew yesterday that you would collect car prices and everything else. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27325	The reply to the replica of the Deputy Minister. Have a seat, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27326	Thank you very much. About the number of unemployed. So the figures we told you when we came in the 1st month 70,000 business entities were inequential in them were 60,000 people who were actually companies that had been blocked for 5 or more years. And certainly when it comes to the restructuring of companies and the restructuring of the economy that one part will certainly remain one part will not. It's an inevitable fact. And in that part, you have to see what's safe about that register if it's going to the office and the other part is that they don't get salaries in companies for a few months, so I don't say years. So in that part, every time you do economic restructuring, you will surely encounter this unemployment problem. And I agree that the government is doing the best possible, and we now hope that the industrial competitiveness of Croatia will soon come out to see which sectors we have analyzed very closely in which this has been happening to industries this fall which was in the 11th and 12th months. The most worked in hotel companies that had until 10, 11 months... a very large number of employees who had for a certain time. We have exactly on hotel facilities that are now in this period and closing facilities since let's say in that part they don't work where the part is now gone to the employment office. Also in this part of the building that hasn't recovered yet. So we know which sectors are being talked about and we will try and if we see the construction and tourism sector we hope to quickly and return certain people from the stock market to the economy and that this 3 month unemployment trend will certainly return one part of the investment projects of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the building, one part of tourism. But the structural problem of unemployment certainly still exists because we do not have such a strong competitive industry that will be able to sell its products on the Western market. Only when we have that part of the industry will that part stabilize... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27327	Thank you very much. Replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27328	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy, therefore it is not disputed that we all agree that the implementation of this law will lead to an increase in electricity prices for companies in the Republic of Croatia. I would be interested if you calculated how much that amount would rise to increase Croatia's electricity revenues? However, I fear no matter how much HEP's income has been increased by this law implementation that it will not be able to improve the situation in HEP if this administration is ready and how it manages HEP. Namely, I was saying it yesterday for the first 9 months of last year HEP was doing business with 420 million kuna profits, and for the first 9 months of 2012 with 212 million kuna profits. At the same time, HEP additionally charged a billion kuna, and this government has agreed to increase HEP's electricity prices by more than 20%. Therefore, despite the increase in HEP's price, he is doing badly, disastrously, and this may be the best answer to what you said in your statement that what hep has been like for the past 8 years, and then speaks sufficiently of the fact that in the last year of that term, he has done business with 412 million kunas in the same period, and that in the last year when you set up both management and supervisory board, the same HEP has done business with 205 million kunas of profits with an increase in price and additional borrowing of a billion 700 million kuna. Therefore, I ask you that when you want to plastically show the situation and needs in HEP, then use the data published by FINA which clearly speaks about the current situation in Croatia electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27329	A reply to the replica of Deputy Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27330	Thank you very much. Well, here's to the last one that I set up HEP's management, and that's not exactly what I'm talking about, you said I set it up, but good. In terms of HEP's business, we say we can take and clear their balance, and we can discuss it more specifically. But I was thinking of yours when you asked for a replica to praise us. And you know why? I remember well if I listen very carefully to you here when last year we had the same excise tax code where you asked for the suspension of excise duty on fuel for national navigation where you were the only one that I remember being held back, and you correct me when the Excise Act was voted on when we changed this electronic part you were the only one to be restrained with this particular reason that you wouldn't support precisely because this excise duty was not abolished for the transport of the national and now I hope that you would vote backwards, that one would vote for it because we adopted in this section and we abolished the excise duty in what you were looking for. So here, I thought we'd talk about it today, too, and you're going to praise that we've abolished the shipping tax on boats, we're going to cancel the excise duty that was last year, and now we're going to cut the fuel consumption. So in that context, I expect you to vote yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27331	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27332	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'm going to do to my colleague, Bačić, because I'm here almost often, constantly, and I'm listening to the explanations of the authorities, and I'm also listening to some of their statements that I just don't understand. They say we are introducing order into public companies and then that order of gain creates loss. In 2011, we had 577 million kuna profits from public companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. In this last year, 257 million kunas minus the introduction of order. Then they say, the prime minister says I believe in 1.8% GDP growth, and we have 70,000 new unemployed. Who's going to create that 2% surplus GDP? Then they say we're increasing the energy price by 20% because it's a bad hydrological year. Here's a good one, there's plenty of rain, here's almost a month's rain, probably now we should cut the energy price by 20% because that's logic. Then they justify the responsibility of HEP of these vast billions, we heard from 1.7 billion last year for the construction of power plants. From Plomin C, there's nothing, at least not until colleague Cain becomes mayor. Omble doesn't have anything either because it's bad paperwork. So the question is, where do you spend all that money? They're gone, there's no investment, and we hear a story all the time about how the price should be raised because it needs to be invested. No investments, the price is worse, the hydrological year this year is good, the drought is gone, and the citizens are paying for all the failures of the current government. That's the only truth. I really don't know why you insist on introducing order when there's no order, but only minuses in the account wherever you look.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27333	Thank you. Replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27334	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovec, you have one part misunderstood my argument and replica. So, as far as I'm concerned, I didn't mention any word from the Ministry of Finance, but you can't tell me that when the citizens of Croatia got bigger bills for heating, 37%, when they got bigger electricity bills that didn't kill their optimism in a certain way. Well, I really don't understand where you live. Because if my great-goreans living in the building have grown by several hundred kunas, if we who live in private homes have received 600, 700 kuna bigger gas bills, so you can't say it doesn't kill optimism. These are facts and macroeconomic indicators are unfortunately such and as hard as you try to explain them, you cannot explain it to Croatian citizens. But you can't at least tell the Ministry of Finance that you don't come across here for a proper debate that he wants to help you with, if nothing else than two people who've been in this Ministry for a long time and who know things. And as for these sailings, etc., so you should have said that you're introducing sailing into the category of blue diesel. Now the question is whether it is better to do or do what all European countries do, and it is a subsidy through the budget to see clearly how much money goes to which line carrier because this is how you open Pandora's box. You know that this Pandora's Box in agriculture has only been resolved by the introduction of smart cards, and the Ministry of Finance has been at war with the Ministry of Agriculture for seven years to introduce those smart cards. How are you going to solve the problem of blue diesel in line carriers? Therefore, we are simply warning you of the problem because sometimes a populist measure is not a good measure. I am still a supporter that all incentives from the state budget are clearly recorded because look, it's easy for us while Jadrolini as a state-owned company drives both profitable and non-profit lines, and what will you do when you have 30.40 line carriers tomorrow. And my colleague Bacic took on these line carriers... while he was a secretary of state and while he was a minister, but I'm just warning you of certain problems that you didn't mention in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27335	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Replication response, Deputy Minister Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27336	Thank you. So we also showed you in this debate and that we also said through committees that we respect each other and that we accept concrete proposals so that I hope that you are on our side when we saw you, when we talked about other laws like the pre-fashion deal, and in this I actually stressed that in fact... constructive proposals that we accept and you actually saw that the government in that part more transparently accepts that part. When I was talking about energy prices actually I just asked myself about HEP's business in the past year and that actually they're carrying one part of the responsibility related to what you said killing the optimism of our citizens on such a sudden increase in energy. So in that part, and about the blue diesel, it also means the same thing as we've discussed, I know that's what I'm not going to say in this part right now, but here's the part that we're trying to say that we're supporting national transporters to praise and support it in that part. So in that part we'll certainly try to think about in this, this is also related to the cards means use. So I think we have good cooperation in that part and we accept, we've just shown you in this part and we're listening and we're accepting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27337	Thank you. And Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27338	Thank you, Madam Vice President, and thank you, Mr. Lalovec, for listening to this reasonable proposal to try to squeeze HEP again because obviously in these conversations and this crowd of yours about all the other things you have, you haven't squeezed enough of the management structure of HEP, or let's see these other distributors, of course, gas and everything, and let's see, however, the cost of benefit analysis about whether it will be a greater cost or greater benefit than that, therefore, to distinguish business and non-business users. And I thank you for going that way. But why did I answer the line, Mr. Lalovec, because you said that at HDZ time obviously he wasn't tight enough. Yeah, HEP was a supermarket. Here's my duty to remind you of that. Many colleagues today talked about how wrong HEP is. But HEP really wasn't on the manager's side there was no investment all these years, Mr. Schuker and Mrs. Dalic remember you as finance ministers as the profit retreated, and there was no investment. There was no possibility and today there is no opportunity to accept alternative energy, so alternative energy produced. We know where we are. Power was being bought at a negative time. It didn't pick up the heat Mr. Shucker said, that debt accumulated through all these stories. Croatia is the eighth country in the world you say small Croatia as one five hundred Europe tomorrow is the eighth country in the world after the absolute imports of energy, and the first one after imports of per capital energy. But HEP kind of squeezed, Mr. Lalovec, and that's where you were wrong. It was squeezed because the trials were under way, managers, HDZ managers of Antvak, so the son-in-law's name was taken by Barisic Despot 10%. That's right to his suppliers. A colleague named Buljubasic. How I forgot his last name. Buljubjasic walked, received salary at HEP, got an apartment in HEP, while at the same time a colleague of Bačić worked with you in HDZ offices. So, no, he's a colleague of the Jarnik, I apologize. At the time of his fellow Jarnjak, he walked the HDZ. Therefore, HEP was very tight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27339	The debate is over. We'll vote on this bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27340	Final proposal of the Excise Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 250. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's up for it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 106 votes for and 15 abstentions, 15 against, excuse me, can you repeat? We'll repeat the vote to determine, please let's do it again. Can we? Who's in favour of accepting a debate on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's amendments? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that by a majority of votes, 105 votes in favour, 15 votes against and one abstention, we have accepted the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the government itself. I ask the applicant's representative to explain the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. During the discussion of the Expensive Act, Amendment No. 1 actually refers to nomotechnical harmonisation, i.e. it came from a grammatical error, and in that sense the government proposed the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27342	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I find that by a majority of the 107 votes in favour of, 13 votes against, 1 abstention, we have accepted Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27343	Amendment No 2 means that through the debate we have seen that it is necessary to separate the business and non-business zone and thus the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to separate the part so that the closer signifies that the Minister of Finance rules the specificities of this article so that we have actually implemented through this amendment a part of the debate that he brought here at the end of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27344	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's calling for a hearing? Representative of the HDZ Club, respected representative Marina Dalic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27345	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. It is precisely the content of this government amendment that fully accepts the amendment submitted by the HDZ with the aim of transposing in Croatia legislation, directives and regulations of the EU in the way that the directives are written, i.e. allowing the Croatian economy to use certain benefits offered by the directives themselves. In this case, it is the privilege that the economy has a lower electricity and gas consumption than it does, for example. they have non-business institutions, state administration, public sector with the fact that the population or citizens are excluded from paying this excise duty. I think, therefore, that it is good that the government has taken over and accepted the HDZ proposal and has also shown in this regard certain grains of reason when it comes to tax burden issues. Because times are hard and the economy is faced with difficult circumstances in which no increase in tax burden is good. Therefore, the DHZ will rightly be in the world of the fact that its amendment has been adopted in this way and will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27346	Thank you, too. Good example. First I close the debate. Please state who is for amendment of Government number two? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the 190 votes in favour and one vote in favour of amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please explain Amendment No 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27347	Amendment number 3 actually refers to the same thing as Amendment number 2 that, in fact, in the transitional and final provisions, that separation refers to, so the article is related to this previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27348	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? There's no interest. I am concluding the debate on Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? How about a score? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 113 votes in favour and 3 votes against and 4 abstentions have been accepted by amendment number 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. No more amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We are going to the amendments set by the Legislative Committee. Amendment No 1 to the Legislative Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27349	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27350	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27351	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27352	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number three?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27353	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27354	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number four?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27355	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27356	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number five?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27357	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27358	Thank you very much. It also becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number six?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27359	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27360	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number seven?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27361	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27362	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number eight?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27363	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27364	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number nine?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27365	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27366	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. And in the end Amendment 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27367	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27368	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Dear Deputy Minister at the end of the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27369	It is not accepted because of nomotechnical compliance where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been going with its amendment, so it is essential that but because of technical consistency the Government cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27370	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, please welcome the esteemed Martin Dalic, representative of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27371	Thank you very much. Well, as I said, it is clear that the government has accepted, by its amendment, what the HDZ has proposed and achieved and ensured that the economy has exactly the kind of burden that the directive proposes, not greater than it was in the basic draft of the law. Therefore, I should be clear whether I am satisfied or dissatisfied with the disapproval. I am pleased that the substance has been accepted because the goal has been achieved, the economy has received lower electricity and gas costs and the form itself as I have said is less important in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27372	Thank you, too, for your esteemed representatives of the HDZ Club. The amendment was consummated through the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Are you pulling or shall we vote? ... You don't have to. You're pulling. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favor of the final bill? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 105 votes in favour and 13 votes against the adoption of the Excise Taxation Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27373	And we move on to 5. Proposal for a law amending the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 248. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Before I give my word to the promoter, we'll extend the session to 14 o'clock today, and then the break will be 14 to 15. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27374	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Republic of Croatia currently operates 5 housing savings that at the end of the first half of 2012 managed the total assets of 7.3 billion kuna, which amounted to 1.8% of the total assets of the credit institutions system. The ownership structure remained unchanged. One savings bank was mostly domestically owned while there are four remaining foreign shareholders who hold 96% of the total assets of all housing savings. 414 persons were employed in housing savings during the same period, which is 1.9% of total employees in credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. The citizens' deposits received on 30.6.2012 amount to 6.1 billion kuna and account for 85% of the total sources of funding, while they are paid to citizens at a level of 3.3 billion kuna, and the rest refers to the deposits in the Treasury accounts of the Ministry of Finance 866 million kuna, which is an increase from 295 million kuna to 866 as it was 2009. Deposits with savings banks hold 738 million kuna, which has certainly been an increase since 2009 when it amounted to 79 million kuna, and investment in bonds from the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of more than 1 billion kuna. The registered share capital of all 5 savings is 488 million kuna. According to the applicable law, housing savings are collected from domestic natural and legal persons to address citizens' housing needs, to approve loans with the financial support of the state. In accordance with the provisions of the applicable law of the state budget, the amount of savings paid shall be paid to state incentives of 15% of the deposited deposits of housing savings, with a maximum deposit of 5000 kuna per year per savings. This is the highest amount of state incentive funds that can be achieved during one calendar year amounted to 750 kuna. It's a second reduction. The first was when there was 25% of the base. So 1250 kuna is actually down to this system in 2005 as it is still valid. Amendments and additions to the Law propose a reduction in the percentage of state incentives in one year from 15 to 10%, with the maximum amount of state incentive funds per housing savings of 500 kn per year. The reduction of incentives is primarily the result of an analysis of the incentive housing system in the Republic of Croatia which has shown that the purpose is not fully met, and that the system primarily does not serve the housing of citizens. So, a small number of contracts concluded, large deposits, rather than primarily a lucrative kind of savings for those citizens who have no intention of resolving their housing issues in this way. The system of fostering housing savings has so far not been effective and has not served its purpose. This is best discussed in the total of 28600 total credit agreements involving 400,000 savings or some 90,000 families, since the loan is taken together by families. The total volume of credit I told you that 3.3 billion kuna is a share of the circus of about 5 and a half percent of total housing loans approved in the Republic of Croatia. The total balance somewhere is about 57 billion kuna, while on the other hand the incentives from the state budget have been paid 2.1 billion kuna, or after the return, when one part of the savings has actually been balanced is about 1.6 billion kuna. In other words, in the last three years since 2009 since 2011 The Republic of Croatia paid an average of 160 million living savings from the state budget, while they granted an average of around 300 million loans annually. So there were even years where they approved from 170 million to 500 million kuna. Therefore, given the overall financial figures that we have transferred here, the system of housing savings incentives will be analysed further during 2013 and a decision on further status of housing incentives will be taken depending on this. I would like to point out here in the end that still this residential product, the housing savings still most attractive on the financial market since the state gives you a contribution of about 10%, 500 kuna of 5,000, means that ten percent, you have more interest where there is, you still have an extremely stimulating program while on the other hand you can't find such a product on the market. But what has actually come to the analysis is that a large number of citizens did not actually solve this housing issue, and if you see the structure of the financial asset that deposits are 6.1 billion kuna and that they are only approved three billion and that three billion are invested in the securities of the Republic of Croatia, the question is whether we encourage banks to actually earn through incentives to us and on the other hand, and on interest through the values of the structure. Between the housing savings is different, somewhere normal is that there are 90% of their assets there that are residential loans. However, in some housing savings, you have 3%.5%, 10%, that total approved housing loans. So this model, which we actually did in the 1990s in the late 1990s, according to the example of Austrian models we accepted, I'm afraid I have to say it didn't come to life on the financial market in the Republic of Croatia, but not as unfortunately it was re-shown in public by the guilt of the state. So neither these authorities, nor the former authorities because they were greatly encouraged by this savings, you know that there were a thousand two hundred kunas and seven hundred fifty kunas, and today it's still five hundred kunas, rather than actually the question of their owners is the question of the banks, which is why and how they actually pushed their housing savings from the markets that we said here have 1.9% of the market. In Austria, when we speak, you have about a million annual contracts, in us you have in this 15-year period 28 thousand contracts, and you see that significant financial resources, so over 2 billion kunas are actually from the budget that full budget encouraged housing. However, in this section, we say that we need to reconsider this model and in what way encourage it to rent and indeed resolve the housing issue of our citizens. Really solving and not actually making extra profits again for those who have to save. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27375	Replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27376	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy, you yourself have found that this form of housing savings that should result in the granting of housing loans is still the most attractive model for the purchase of dwellings in the Republic of Croatia. And the fundamental reason why the government changes this law as you say is that there is an unintended use of housing funds and therefore the government changes the law. If we have established, and you and we agree that this is the most attractive model then it was better that the government kept the upcoming subsidy and what you said and announced that during this year we would analyse the model, perhaps make it more attractive than reducing the subsidy, point to the instability of the system and send a message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that it would not save, because it might practically give up the subsidisation of housing savings during that period of one year. The government should have improved the system by law, prevented the possibility of accidental use of housing savings by housing savings that you mentioned earlier and thus made this attractive model even more attractive and even helped sell a very large unsold housing fund in the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that the government has gone completely wrong by sending a message that it will not support the future subsidisation of housing savings because it is now shrinking, somewhere it is said to be... and thus far the most successful model that provides housing lending through housing savings makes it practically uncertain and this is, in my opinion, a very bad step for the Croatian government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27377	Thank you. Replication response, Deputy Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27378	Thank you very much. When we talked here, we were talking about a reduction like I told you in the opening and announced and actually said that in 2005, your government also decreased even more when there was a certain economic growth and when actually there were better economic conditions than this year, so that aproposs of this was a bad move. We think that you need to reconsider the purpose savings, I'm saying it's like a financial product because today he can give you to invest good money and get out the money that you can't use at all, so the question of use, and that's why we're here saying we need to talk about savings because when we said we should go for use, then the savings said that at that point, you would totally kill such a system. So we've given this a transitional period where we're going to talk about what is the model that is encouraging but that must be along with the entire policy of resolving housing issues. So that's a whole package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27379	Thank you. Whether or not the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it. They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27380	Dear Vice-President, Deputy Minister, Assistant Director of Customs Administration, Honored colleagues and colleagues. This law proposes reducing the percentage of state incentives from 15 to 10%, which would reduce the maximum amount of state incentive funds in one calendar year from 750 to 500 kuna in order to apply the reduction to all payments after the first January 2013. The basis for the incentive remains the same. So 5,000 kuna a year for one savings. So this is neither about abolishing the incentives nor about abolishing the housing savings model, as counterpart Bacic just said. It's about reducing incentives. I recall that originally, when the housing savings system was introduced, the state incentive amounted to as much as 25%, which was nominally 1250 kuna, so in 2005, only after 6 years that model was introduced, so 6 years after the effective functioning of the system, the height of the state incentive would be reduced to 15% or to nominal 750 kuna as much as it is today, so that reduction was done by the HDZ government. Even the savings itself, and after this reduction, believe and say that housing savings will remain a competitive savings product because the total contribution to housing is still attractive as they save with a state incentive they get interest as well. In addition, customers continue to gain the right to a favourable fixed-rate housing loan for the entire payment period, and this is a huge advantage we must recognise this in relation to housing loans under commercial conditions. Here it should be pointed out that it is precisely the state incentives that allow housing savings to transform variable interest on housing loans into that fixed interest. Therefore, the beneficiaries of housing loans have been at the same rate for 11 years, while those who have agreed to this recession period have then raised very favourable loans in Swiss francs, so their wars are unfortunately up to 60% today. The Croatian system of state-encouraged housing savings today after 15 years of existence includes, as the deputy said, 5 housing savings banks of which 4 operate as part of banks or banking groups, so Zagreb, Privredne, Raiffeisen Banka and Croatian Post Banka. The exception is a Wüstenrot residential savings facility that doesn't have a bank behind it. One savings bank is owned by the majority domestically by the savings bank of Croatia and its property accounts for only 4% of the total property of all housing savings, so as many as 96% of the total property of residential savings banks refers to 4 savings that are mostly owned by foreign shareholders. According to data we can read from the half-year report of the CNB, the total assets of housing savings in mid-2012 amounted to 7.3 billion kuna. It is interesting that with this property the housing savings participate in the total assets of all credit institutions in Croatia with a percentage of only 1.8%. However, what is even more interesting in the total amount of approved housing loans, housing savings are participating with a triple-higher percentage, i.e. 5.5%. There's more to it that's interesting. The share of non-paymentable housing loans in banks is already high 6%, it says about 10,000 cases, so 10,000 Croatian citizens. In residential savings, the share of non-refundable loans is only 0.88%, so the risk level is incomparably lower. So far, housing savings have placed around 4 billion kunas of housing loans at an average interest rate that I have stressed is already fixed at the time of payment of 5%. However, there are less good data, and one of these is that only about 500 thousand citizens or 12% of the total population are included in the housing system in Croatia, which is almost three times less than in similar Central European countries, for example, I will take Austria as an example, which is the cradle of housing savings. There are 6 million housing savings contracts on 10 million people, so 60% of the population is saving up in housing savings. There are more than 50% of the population in Czech housing savings, between 25% and 30% in Slovakia, etc. It is obvious and we must conclude that in Croatia this system has not fully realised its possible realization. One of the most common questions asked about housing savings was why the savings allowed unintended use of funds. I have already stressed that of the five savings that operate in Croatia 4 have banks or wider banking systems behind them. I stressed that the only Wüstenrot savings bank does not have a bank behind it and that housing savings place in housing loans is as much as 90% of the money collected from savings deposits. At Raiffeisen the savings bank is about 60% somewhere, and for the first residential savings bank as well as for the savings bank the percentage is not known at all and logically raises the question of how much of these savings are collected through commercial loans, not in terms of housing loans because the profits from commercial loans are incomparably higher. Finally Zagrebačka and Privredna banka are members of Italian banking groups as is known to the UniCredito Groupe and Sanpaulo, Intesa Sanpaulo, and in Italy as far as we know there is no known housing savings as such. Now, perhaps for the purpose of ensuring the use of savings, a lower limit should be laid down legally for the mandatory placement of savings deposits into housing loans. Perhaps the state incentive should be paid right at the time of the housing loan and cumulatively for all years of savings, not during savings. So the state would be sure to encourage housing, not other purposes. When it comes to this problem, one more Croatian specificity needs to be pointed out. In fact, Croatian citizens have invested their savings most in real estate and therefore Croatian citizens have significantly more property in their possession than is the European average. Unlike us in the European Union, apartments were bought and houses were built by only the richest, and the largest number of citizens live in rented apartments. Of course, there's a market for rent that's far better regulated. Furthermore, in Croatia, a large number of housing units are currently unused. According to some data, we have about 20,000 unsold apartments, so right now we actually have a surplus living space. At the same time, unfortunately, we have an increasing number of citizens who have no financial resources to solve the housing issue. All that I've said, undoubtedly, is the arguments for a major twist in national housing policy because, if there was one at all, it doesn't take into account that fact's effects, it's actually completely unadjusted. It is therefore up to the Government to define one whole housing policy, and therefore it needs to be given time, and therefore it needs to be given space to provide a comprehensive analysis to determine what is a rational solution for Croatian citizens, especially for those young people, for young couples who have a primary existential issue. Is it a lifelong borrowing to solve a roof problem with very risky conditions, whether it is renting an apartment with a sense of respect for social criteria or a third solution. In any case, housing policy must strongly respect the social component. The housing savings are therefore a very sensitive issue and therefore, as the Deputy Minister said in the opening statement during 2013 the fostered housing system will be analysed further together with banks, along with housing savings and decisions will also be made on the further future status of the fostered housing savings in the Republic of Croatia. The SDP club will support the legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27381	Thank you. Replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27382	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Jelish, here I have listened to you very carefully, you say it's not an extermination, it's a reduction of incentives. We've been looking at it for a year, listening to a policy that promotes tax hikes and reduces incentives. The results are visible, we're going straight to the bottom and this is one part of that road. So you're talking and explaining this move in a way that you're accidentally spending money and you're quoting five savings, and then you're explaining that there's one that works very successfully and 90% of your housing loans are placed in apartment building or buying apartments, and you don't want to say that you just want to save 35 or 40 million kunas and that you're going to take that money from 500 000 people who are saving through these savings, and that's the only purpose of this law, because it would be more polite to say then if we cut off the incentives for housing savings. Well, that would be nice to me, then. But the fact isn't so, and it's not meant to be spent on money. These are the money that Croatian citizens have been counting on and not all of them have paid 10, 15 and 20 thousand kuna to be able to set aside monthly or annually and a few thousand kunas to obtain the conditions to buy an apartment and take care of it. The average Croatian citizen saves somewhere between 3,000 and 800 kuna a year and these are facts. And this story is that we're doing it because it's not intended to do something, so it's going to be a bank, etc. A little playing with the citizens, that's not true. You have also damaged certain young families who wanted to reach housing in this way, but you are taking away that possibility because every year you want to give them less and less and less, and I say these stories unintendedly, etc., it would be more polite for you to say that we will end it because it is not meaningful.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27383	Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27384	Thank you, Vice President. So, fellow Boric, this government really wants to be a rational government, and in this situation, it saves the most money anywhere it can be saved. So what this government doesn't want anymore, it doesn't want to stimulate the accidental spending of housing savings in housing savings. So the only Wustenrot housing savings place 90% of the housing deposits. In other housing savings, this is not the case, so it is placed incomparably less, i.e. one huge part of the savings of Croatian citizens is placed for commercial purposes and this is not good and the state cannot further encourage it. So for the Privredna banka, for the Poštanska banka, Zagreb banka is not even known how much they actually place. And the very information the deputy minister told him that the deposits in the housing savings amount to six billion kunas and that only three billion kunas are being placed, so half of them go into housing savings, and half of them go for commercial purposes. It's something that can't survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27385	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27386	Dear Madam Vice President. I'd like to replicate to Mrs. Jelash who misrepresented my replica. So I didn't say that housing savings would be abolished, but I said that this was the first step that demoted citizens to save in the most successful project of issuing and placing housing loans, and that in public, and even by housing savings, it's saying that this is the first step to abolishing. So I didn't say that. The second thing is, you're handing over the HDZ which in 2005 reduced the subsidy, and that's what you disagree with, and then you're proposing a law that further reduces it. Is it absurd to you or is it wrong that we were right, so you or we were wrong, and now you're right. So it can't be both exactly like you said. The second thing, in your debate, praise these loans that they are the best, that they are the most successful, that only 0.9% of outstanding loans are unlike 6% of how inability to collect loans by banks. So if that's good and you praise it in your debate, then what, how can you support a bill that goes to demote citizens to take such loans? And one more thing I don't agree with you. If there was an unintended use, and it was by the savings. And you yourself said that some of the savings were unintendedly using funds, and that one of them wasn't then you would propose a law that we would support, in which we would force, control, monitor all the savings to keep from placing funds unintendedly. And that was the bill's proposal, and I'm not saying that there's a reduction in the subsidy that will certainly reduce the number of loans, the number of issued housing loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27387	The answer to Nadica Jelash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27388	Comrade Bačić, therefore, this law is really not on the verge of an end to housing savings. Mr. Lalovac has just been deputy minister, and I, in my debate, stressed all the advantages of housing savings and the fact that she is still the most attractive type of housing savings. So, we've promoted housing savings, and right now it's necessary. However, what you have is a dilemma as to why we are now reducing the state's incentive. So you cut it from an initial 25 to 15%, so by a full 10 percentage points, at the beginning, when the housing savings were introduced. So, then you made that move, in fact, that you made her, that she became less attractive and that she did not let deeper roots into Croatian citizenship. So at the beginning, you shouldn't have done it, and what we're doing right now is a rational move.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27389	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27390	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, Mrs. Jelash, I have to agree that you've given an excellent cut, an analysis of housing savings, and in principle, that what you've said could be agreed on, and you would expect, in fact, to get concrete suggestions on how we're going to try to reach or go somewhere towards the Austrian model and as many housing savings as Austria has, at least in proportion to the population. But I really don't understand what this has to do with this bill because we really want to punish citizens here, primarily young people because the system doesn't work. My hair rises on my head from the words spoken here when I hear that the state's money has been purposefully spent. I'm asking you people what message that is? Where's the unintentionally spent state money? Who's responsible for that? Who's gonna handle the sanctions? Citizens who are now called "intentional spending" of money are being taken down 5% on the incentive for housing savings. You understand? I mean, I don't really get it, I don't get it. At the same time we said we couldn't charge taxes on furs, diamonds, jewelry, so we lifted it. It'll be easier for the citizens. The Croats will buy diamonds and jewelry, and here where we need to give some hope to the builders that they might start building something again tomorrow because everything we care about here we cancel and give such a message. This is not a good message and this is not a good bill. I think we should think about it a little bit better, think about it and get on the ball a little bit, not this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27391	The answer to Nadica Jelash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27392	The real question for me is why Croatian citizens no longer save in housing savings, given that they have favourable conditions for housing savings. So, the fact is that Croatian citizens save, a lot of savings. At this point, there are about 170 billion deposits or savings in banks. What is to say is that most of that savings has been eurored. So Croatian citizens believe more euros than kunas and more trust banks than they believe in housing savings. And the truth is that one large part of the deposit in the housing savings wasn't used for purpose. And I agree with you that's bad. In my debate, I even cited some opportunities that should be discussed during this year when discussing this issue, i.e. the future, the future of housing savings both with banks and with savings. Therefore, there is a possibility that a possible and legal setting of the lower limit would have to be placed in housing loans from deposits. Whether it'll be 60%, whether it'll be 70%, and the smaller part to place in securities. This is now not good, so especially with the two largest banks in Zagreb and the business bank. Wustenrot is too small a savings bank to improve the overall situation by placing 90% of the deposits.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27393	And Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27394	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I've noticed, my colleagues, Jelash, is this allegation that it's not, that it's not about abolishing housing savings, and my colleagues have already explained it in some way. But I am glad to hear from our high school students from Fran Galović High School in Koprivnica who would certainly be users of this housing savings, but will be on difficult occasions because it is a reduction of incentives. And I ask the question why is it going to a reduction that has proved successful, which has shown certain results. I don't understand the same thing when it's said, here we are today two next points of the Nanny Act, about maternity benefits when we all swear on a population policy. Why is it going to make it difficult for these young people to solve housing problems when you yourself said that this is an indecisive problem for many people, insecure and with these difficult social opportunities, a blow to citizens' standards. It's extremely important and it's really too bad. And then you say you'll make a turn in that part. Well, I suggest you make a turn and go the right way in solving social issues and improving the quality of life of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27395	Thank you. But in the introduction of your replica, you abused the Institute of Replica. The answer to Nadica Jelash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27396	Dear counterpart Milinkovic, you have used the replica as a real experienced politician to welcome the high school students Fran Galovic. Here's what I'm saying from my heart, I say hello to them, although I don't see them, and they don't see me, but what I can promise them, this government will do anything to provide them with a better chance of saving and resolving housing issues in their future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27397	Therefore, children, hold them by their word. On behalf of the HSU Club, colleague Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27398	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am also joining and welcoming my younger citizens from Koprivnica. We are facing another emergency intervention that has been carrying out budget savings but is also an unpopular measure that has brought down something that has worked very well for 12 years. It is a housing savings institute through which more than 600,000 citizens have gone through, and currently over 6 billion kuna deposits have been collected in the system and more than 4 billion housing needs of our citizens have been financed so far. Since the start of housing savings to 5 thousand kuna per year, state incentives have been 25% to reduce the former government to 15% in 2005. The proposal now proposes to further reduce state incentives by a third from 750 to 500 kuna, which will save the budget from 50 to 60 million kuna. Detained... the benefit of housing savings and savings savings great damage especially if this continues with the reduction of the incentive rate. With their concept of housing savings, they developed a savings culture that is still low in Croatia compared to other countries in the region. Small monthly savings over five years created a credit potential for crediting residential construction, less house or apartment adaptations. Part of the savings that had concluded the savings contract, and after five years it was not a residential need for credit it saved for schooling children, for traveling, for car replacement. In relation to expensive bank loans with a tendency to raise interest rates or wild exchange rates such as Swiss housing savings, they provided relatively low and limited fixed interest rates on housing loans in kunas exclusively purposely spending on housing loans and controlling the spending of these funds, collecting a large number of small savings in regular payments over a longer period, free use of savings and state incentives over a period of five years. In addition to the significant benefit for citizens, it is important that the state has also benefited more than the paid state incentive funds. The direct benefit for the State was VAT revenues for the purchased material, tax on real estate taxes, taxes and contributions from residents in residential savings, and strict control of the purpose of credit spending was also directly prevented by the grey economy. Multi-annual analyses show that 2.5 kunas of revenue were returned to the budget for one kuna of state incentives. The indirect benefit also concerned the protection of the social standard of citizens especially pensioners and those who could save something for old age possibly how to treat or help children or grandchildren. Also fixed interest rates in the conditions of an unstable financial market were stabilisers in the control of bank interest rate developments. If the collected savings failed to be settled in residential loans, the legal obligation of the savings bank was on the purchase of government bonds. Housing savings do not require external borrowing because all funding for housing needs is collected from the savings of citizens. In its being a concept of housing savings and fixed lower interest rates, it is not that each savings raises credit, but that three saves five years, and only the 4th client raises credit. It was similar sometimes when all employees were singled out in the housing fund of companies, and apartments were given to those with years of internships. We've never come in line before. It is a pity that in this bill we have not received an analysis of the Ministry of Finance which would show us how much this savings is used for housing, and how accurate the claims that this is a lucrative type of savings for those who do not intend to raise housing credit. The fact is that this savings was not much more favourable than the bank's extradition because in the smaller banks, even in 2009 and 2010, the interest on the cash savings savings was up to 7%. Unwarranted is worried that small savings will be enriched at the expense of the state budget. It is certain that these moves will endanger the further work of housing savings. There are 5 housing savings in Croatia, but only 2 are real savings while others function as departments of banks, of course foreign ones. They are certainly not interested in developing housing savings because it is not profitable to give them kuna loans with a fixed and lower interest rate. The savings in Croatia are not a great competition for banks but are a thorn in their eye because they show that even with smaller interest can be done normally. However, these moves will result in less interest in savings, fewer contracts, a lower volume of business and come to a cost-effectiveness limit for the independent business of housing savings. Experience in some countries of the region shows that housing savings can be a better choice in lending housing needs to banks, so 60% of housing loans in Slovakia come from savings banks. In view of the fact that Article 2 of this Law will already cut the incentives for 2013 the question of legal certainty and the realisation of contracts concluded by the end of 2012. Contracts have been concluded under the current rules and new conditions of height of incentives should apply to contracts concluded after this law enters into force. This application of the law as proposed creates legal uncertainty for citizens because the realisation of the rights and obligations of previously concluded contracts is now very questionable. While on one side the bank debtor is stronger than all the legal restrictions at the level of the performance we talked about yesterday, here the state changes the agreed rate of incentives without a problem earlier. Of course, the state has the right to decide how much and how much it will give incentives, even if this and likely future reductions in the incentive rate will result in the closure of housing savings. I agree with the report of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget that a thematic debate is needed on the future of housing savings and against the detimulative reduction of the rate of incentives, particularly on previously concluded contracts, which ultimately leads to the collapse of housing institutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27399	Thanks a lot, buddy. Zoran Vinkovic has a replica of your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27400	Dear colleague. I'd like to see, and I welcome the governments of Koprivnica since I had to be there by force even though it's a very beautiful town in 84th to 85th there on the street of Mihovil Pavlek Miskina and you don't believe everything you hear here. I would like to know how the HSU club will vote on Friday when this is passed, because this law has obviously passed and proposed the government of the Republic of Croatia, so to the Kukurik coalition that also belongs to HSU. It also reminds me of Cain that he who often speaks against the law, then votes them up and raises his hand. It reminds me that we often have politicians who often disagree with their own opinion but then it's too late when they raise their hands. However, the promoter should know that on one kuna paid incentives for housing savings to the state's housing savings into the budget through VAT related to the construction and sale of apartments and contributions from builders are returned 2.5 kuna. So here we can't talk about saving in the state budget of 30, 40 or 50, 60 million kuna, but at the loss right in the state budget because the state budget on one kuna is going to run out of 2.5 kuna. As we have already mentioned here is Koprivnica and these young people who need to know that from the state budget in Koprivnica and Varazdin do not make savings in the state budget they pay... of almost 40 million kunas, so both in Koprivnica and in Varazdin through a public private partnership programme, and it would be interesting to see what certain SDP politicians said two years ago in a similar law on housing where one of them who is no longer in the Parliament says that the government, that the law at the time was a regular spin, that the government is not helping the builders or citizens but only those who do not need help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're grinding their necks off to fat geese or banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27401	Would you like to answer that? It's a turtle, Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27402	My dear colleague, as far as the vote is concerned, you'll see it tomorrow. I also stressed in my debate that I disagreed with such an amendment especially with what it has, so I could say a little retroactive action since there have been signed housing contracts since 2009, 2010, and last year, which means that these conditions that were in those contracts will no longer be respected. On the other hand, the state has the right to give incentives to change and change them, and when I saw one contract a little bit more detail then I noticed that some of the things we all already know and the contract is written in font 8, meaning very small letters which say that the rates of incentives can change in the course of the contract. So I don't think it's right that we could have dealt with it differently, and I agree with the committee that suggested it, this problem is being solved in the following year, and it could have been, first of all, in one debate to see what the fate of these housing savings banks is, and not to have been abolished overnight, in fact, reducing the rate of incentives, only after the real debate of what their destiny is then decided. Because it does, however, save no matter what number of contracts it refers to, that some will be damaged because contracts have worked under quite different conditions than they will now after the law is applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27403	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27404	Thank you very much. Mr. Schamper, you spoke very nicely of the problem of encouraging housing savings in Croatia and this legislative proposal, and it is evident that the topic is close to you and that you have very well distinguished the two basic premises through your speech, which is why this law is being passed. The first is the need to save certain funds in the state budget, it is about 40 million kuna which are wanted to be taken from 500 thousand Croatian citizens who are saving and the second is that this law goes hand in hand to bankers who cannot place expensive housing loans with interest and up to 8 and more percent because their housing savings are when they get the conditions from savings are unfair competition. The fact is that this government has been going parallel to banks for the past year, not wanting to stand up to them in anything, and this is another legal proposal where they're going on hand because a small man of course isn't important anymore, it's important how to increase the profits of these banks and how to destroy the little good market that started to be created not so long ago. And we keep talking about the incentives that were 1250 kuna, but let's remember that time and the races of many insurance companies or people's savings, sleeve withdrawals, etc. to go into savings at all. It was a motivation for people to get used to it and go into one of those visions. It is possible today to discuss this issue in a different way, but the government has remained on the line to want to be in favour of bankers but not on the side of a small man and especially a young family whose this was one of the easier ways to reach housing and pay less, and it gets the same thing that the bank would get for much more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27405	Replication response, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27406	Here I can say that six and a half years ago I was a beneficiary of housing savings and any savings that make up the contract may not have the intention to raise a housing loan but think for five years there might be some need. So I also had a chance, and in my contract, I took credit for making my daughter's house, which was useful at the time because it was very favourable and rates regarding fixed interest and all other years of payment. However, he is now objecting to those who took the savings after the 5th year. It was their savings, and this savings says that three savings need saving so the fourth one can raise a loan. This housing savings, it's not a lot of billions, so we had to do something to popularize even more this housing savings, to stick to the contract, not to cut it like this, and I'm saying what gets me the most is that already concluded contracts will no longer be under those conditions and realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27407	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27408	Vice-President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. You said on behalf of the club you wouldn't vote for this bill, so we'll see about that tomorrow. I can say openly on behalf of the HDSSB club that the HDSSB club certainly won't vote for this law. So the whole story in today's debate is about the problem of unintended spending. So why, instead of changing the law, why didn't we put an article on banning the accidental spending of those housing funds? We have a draft law amending the law, the article is changing and this Article 21st paragraph 2 where we replace the words 15% with the words 10%, so we're reducing the DPS. I'm afraid we won't stay on it, in 2014, it'll probably be 5%, 2015 zero, so there's nothing of that housing savings that's very important to young people. I'm sorry they're not high school students here, they're a generation born in the late '90s, I'm a generation and generations born in the '80s I like to call a container for generations because soon they'll be forced to search for their food in containers, and unfortunately live in boxes. And it's this proposal for a law on state-owned housing savings that makes it all the same for these young generations to live in boxes after all. The housing savings system was incorporated into domestic legislation 15 years ago by the Law on Housing Savings, which regulates the relations between the state, savings and the citizens themselves of savings and credit users. The law established basic system settings such as the existence of state incentives, the use of funds, the restriction of investment of savings banks, and the restriction of the relationship between interest rates on savings and on loans. This law should ensure favourable financing of housing loans but also through medium and long-term effects to achieve significant revenues for the budget, create new jobs and indirectly encourage awareness of savings and stimulate anti-inflation effects. Why did such a system of living savings prove successful? Three are the main reasons. The first reason is the difference in savings interest and the credit is small, that's not the case with banks. The second reason is a fixed interest rate, so simply put with a fixed interest rate we know where we are. And the third reason, that exactly DPS are actually a lever of the entire system. In the first 10 years, about 500,000 citizens were included in the housing system, 4 billion loans were placed and 5 housing savings were opened. Citizens have received a credit system in which they can be trusted, a system that will ensure that credit is taken on favourable terms with fixed interest, a system that will simply effectively help them get to the roof above their heads. The studies carried out show that for each kuna paid in housing savings on behalf of the incentives of the state, 2.6 kuna is paid through direct payments, real estate taxes, VAT, savings taxes, but also indirectly through the construction of apartments, the opening of new jobs. We all say it's a time of crisis, it's a fact, but some EU member states, at the time of the crisis, have increased incentives for housing savings to as much as 30%. We're doing the opposite again at that time of crisis. There are concrete examples of the lives of citizens whose system of housing is meant to buy their roof over their heads. Unfortunately, we're all familiar with the problem of loans related to the Swiss franc. So, the people who took the Swiss franc loans had a loan war a few years ago, 1700 kuna, today they have 2700. They used to have two and a half thousand kunas today, four and a half. And this situation has become unsustainable. Unfortunately, I'm afraid with this cut in incentives from 15% to 10%, there will be a reduction in those who want to save. I am convinced that with these performances you are publicly inviting young people to leave Croatia and to look for their roof over their heads somewhere else. For the same reason HDSSB will be harsh against such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27409	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27410	Well, I don't know, Representative Chesek, why you, as you don't understand why it's being abolished. Well, the Prime Minister said in the government, we all heard that he knew some people who used that savings in their housing, and they didn't take credit. And if so, there could be one article or two of that law modulate and prevent savings from housing savings from turning really into savings and that can only be realised through credit. So it would be simple to realize. The deputy minister says that this is being abolished, reducing because 50 million kunas are to be saved. If that is the case, for example, the proposal to amend those taxes on aircraft where the Government, where it is argued that the financial impact and their tax was only 2 million kuna. For example, it was such a minor financial effect that we don't get paid that tax, so let's say we cut taxes on airplanes. 2 million kuna is so little for the state budget that it wasn't worth mentioning. Or another example. 50 million, maybe that's the 50 million kuna we just shot in a private bank of state money. Maybe it's that 50 million kuna that's missing right now, so we need to get them out of housing measures. In any case you're well I think you've focused it, that actually this measure I think seems to me completely like a bargaining, indirect bargaining actually to banks, the interest of banks, and all else if we're going to strip it can be just on one or another complex variety of formulations behind which we're actually going to hide the primary interest. And the primary interest will still be guessing banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27411	Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27412	Thank you, colleague Djurovic. I couldn't agree more with you, and one of the leaders of my debate was, in fact, that's exactly what the bank's bargaining was about. It is unfortunate for banks to have foreign banks, because in Croatia we have one Croatian bank that is going to privatise and who knows whose hands it will end up in. Therefore, the entire government favours large capital and such a law is precisely working to ensure that banks, these foreign banks, earn extra profits, extra profits on the coat of arms of poor Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27413	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27414	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy, with an associate, an honorary colleague and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community club will not support the proposal for a law amending the House Savings Act and the state incentive of housing savings. As already stated in the previous debate by Mr. Deputy and fellow MPs, this law was practically created in 1998, and for the purpose of encouraging housing savings and providing very favourable housing loans on the Croatian market. That law and that model that this law has come up with, as we've already heard, is not new. In some Central European countries, this model was already established more than 200 years ago when it went into residential savings and founding housing savings. It introduces a model of dedicated housing savings encouraged by state incentives with the right to obtain a favourable dedicated loan provided for in the financing of residential space. The model, as already said in the first draft of the law, meant 25% of the amount of savings of 5000 kuna. So it was somewhere a state housing incentive was around 1250 kuna, which was recently said in 2005 reduced to 750 kuna, i.e. 15% of the total maximum incentive amount per savings of 5000 kuna. I agree that this should not have been done at the time, although it was very much compared to the proposed proposal for a state incentive two and a half times as high. And that if the government disagreed with this proposal by the Croatian Democratic Community that reduced the incentives for housing savings then there was a way to return the incentive to the original proposed 1250 kuna incentive. This law, which was passed in 1998, is also based on provisions aimed at housing savings, giving full certainty that they will be able to achieve a series of advantages through the system and that they will ensure, through the stability of the system, that the stability of savings will also be ensured in changing and demanding times. It is precisely these times that are changing and demanding times for the government to maintain an existing state subsidy and not to change it because it adds uncertainty to citizens who save in housing savings. The most favourable loans for obtaining residential space in the Republic of Croatia have been placed through the housing savings facility because the interest rate ranges from 3.5 -4%, what is important loans are kuna and probably crucial, for the entire time paying off the loans of the housing savings, provide their contracts with a fixed interest rate. On that side, looking at it is the farthest apartment loan in the Republic of Croatia. What is important to note is that this is not just about a housing loan that is being placed for the purchase of an apartment, through this model you can get a loan for the construction of a family house, for reconstruction, construction, adaptation, repair, purchase of a building particle, municipal planning of a building particle, therefore, it is not only the purpose of this model of residential lending for the purpose of buying an apartment but with a number of other options that relate to resolving the housing issue of a particular citizen. So I said that the existing model offers the most favourable housing credit, acquires the right to grant state subsidies of 750 kuna. The housing savings offer the most favourable security and profit ratio and the savings are secured by the state-owned savings deposit agency, the resolution of banks, thus the savings are fully secure regardless of its size. The savings are adjusted to the savings options that determine the amount and dynamics of the payments on its own. The monthly repayment war remains fixed throughout the deadline, paid what I just said, can be saved as long as it wants and how long payments can take place monthly, quarterly, half-yearly, annual or one-time payment. Thus, this model of housing savings provides exceptional benefits and opportunities for all savings. We've heard as much as the deposit... housing savings, but it is not important not to mention that the total when this law was passed in total in the Republic of Croatia through all types of housing loans placed somewhere around 57 billion kuna and that the housing savings were placed somewhere around 6% or somewhere around 4 billion kunas of housing loans, which is not to be ignored, so there is no easy access to this model when we know that 6% of sold, issued, housing loans in the Republic of Croatia have been realised through it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is necessary to have a very serious approach and to respect that housing savings are placed somewhere around 4 billion kunas in residential loans. And what may be crucial is that the security of the return of the loan is precisely the safest in this department in Croatia because all of it is 0.88% of the housing credits not charged while in the banks it is somewhere at 6%. And what several speakers have already said, what kind of savings are being saved here in the state budget when according to the study done by the business banks, it seems to me that in 2009, it was proved to me that a kuna that was subsidized from the state budget was returned to the state budget somewhere around 2.6 kuna. The second argument that the government makes is that it is also going to amend this law is that, to a significant extent, it uses the funds of housing savings and that certain housing savings are doing so. I agree with all those who have said that this should then be resolved in another way, simply allow it to be possible, through changes to the law, not to allow unintended use of housing, although if and not purposefully spent, every country will encourage housing savings for a number of reasons. incentivises housing savings, and if, in part, this credit has been used unintendedly, the State should not take this as a crucial reason why this state incentive on housing savings. As for the savings in the state budget. In the Croatian budget for 2013, around 6 billion kuna will be paid to subsidise citizenship, households and companies in the Republic of Croatia. Of these 6 billion kunas, according to the income of the state budget, some 200 million kunas are subsidies for housing savings, and if it decreases by a third, so in optimally maximum numbers we are talking about 60 million kuna, a third of 200 million kuna and about 60 million kuna, which makes 1% of all subsidies in the Republic of Croatia, the government would save or 0.05% of all expenditures of the state budget. So then I ask the question is whether we really want to make the most dubious model in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to housing loans, reporting the population issues of young Croatian citizens due to savings of 0.01% or 50 or 60 million kuna in the state budget. I think that the same state budget will significantly feel this reduction in expenditure on the side of the subsidisation of housing savings but on the other hand it will send one bad message that the state does not have one secure stable system that goes towards encouraging housing savings and that this will result in bad housing loans for all Croats who do not have a settled housing issue. We also heard from the promoters that the government will consider further systematic resolution of housing in the Republic of Croatia, housing policy during this year. I have to deny you, Mr. Deputy, because as far as we have information from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Civil Engineering is concerned with my own thinking, so I would say the government's reflection on the future of housing policy in Croatia has been referred through two projects. The first project was abolished by the Law on subsidisation of housing loans and state guarantees, and on the other hand they said where they were heading with the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Encouragement Building where they introduced so-called model POS plus. And that's why Mr. Deputy is very important to you in the 2013 budget, it seems to me, with a sum of 240 million kuna. Thus, through the state budget, the government has clearly shown through these two laws the direction to address housing policy in the Republic of Croatia. And I assure you that both models are wrong. As for the model from which this government has stepped down, and this is the model that was implemented through the Subsidisation Act and the state guarantees of residential loans in the Republic of Croatia we know well, you were then a member of the administration of a bank that actively involved in this model that at the most favourable interest rates we allowed young Croatian citizens to resolve the housing issue. And over 6 months as long as the project lasted in 2 years, 2,000 250 apartments were allocated, housing loans were granted, not apartments, but housing loans, which is about 600 apartments per month somewhere. This model proved to be very successful because the government budget funds were spent very quickly over a few months because young people in this model who were very simple on the model "One Stop Shop" in their own business bank through state subsidies were very happy to join the project. And now we have abolished this project which was the most successful and we are going back to the POS modeled and modified model of POS so-called. The POS plus programme that should be going this year. We have experience in the Republic of Croatia with a program of encouraging housing and for comparison the project has been going on for 12 years. Some 5 thousand 500 loans for apartments, garages and parking spaces have been realised in the project, etc. Which means that in this project, about 500 apartments are settled annually. Now when you compare it to that model that was in force that was not more expensive than the POS model, you will see that Croatian citizens have very much accepted the project that is where and where it was more favourable, faster and easier to address their housing needs. The government therefore made it clear where it was headed with housing policy this year because it gave up the project. On the other hand, it announces the realization of the project POS plus and, on the third hand, what particularly bothers us is giving up practically or reducing subsidies in this model which was very well received by Croatian citizens. Therefore, if the Government and the Ministry of Finance had the intention to resolve it, to address the issue of the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings, then, during that period that you mentioned, it was possible to look at all aspects of the poorly developed model, to prevent the unintended use of such funds, not to punish citizens who are not guilty of doing so, it was indeed necessary to disable those who unintendedly placed those funds, not to punish citizens by reducing housing savings, to find ways to get there and wherever and where it would be better if they were to find a better higher subsidy today, the larger incentives to keep this project. Because in 2005, when there was a decline of interest in housing lending through residential savings banks, they preferred their own loans because of the market situation and therefore less credit went through housing savings. Today, the time is different from 2005 and the logic that the government led in 2005 is not the same and is not an argument to this government to change this law. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] To conclude, the HDZ club will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27415	Replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27416	In addition to this last one you said during the debate, you said that regardless of the abuses you are aware of, that this should not have led to these changes to the law, and that 60 million of how special you have pointed out and is not something that would make the country particularly rich, or that amount that the state should count on. So this isn't just about times of crisis where every kuna is especially when it goes past the law and it's about learning to behave in every age that spending unintended means or playing law or acting against the law is inadmissible, that it's inadmissible to cheat on a state like it's inadmissible for the government to cheat on citizens. It's a question even above regulations, it's a matter of morality, something we need to learn about. All these changes that we talked about this morning in the previous law, and even in those who want to show up here, there's no money, you know better why she doesn't have any money, trying to show up is not, but let's get rid of the people, from the citizens as much as possible. So the question here is primarily that it's inadmissible for the state to repeat itself, especially in this time subsidizing such interest, so that they spend in any way because we enjoyed it. All subsidies so far have been caused by corruption, privilege and abuse and should be put to an end, and this law is also a contribution to this. I know, no matter what your intentions are and I believe in your good intentions, but many who have acted so highly will be very loud and oppose the adoption of such laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27417	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27418	Thank you. So you're Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović completely misread my debate. First thing, I'm in favour, and that's what I said, to prevent the accidental use of these funds, but because someone else does it, we don't punish citizens who save and through the sight of savings, they want to solve their housing issue. The government was supposed to prevent it from changing its laws, not punishing its citizens. It is the same as if the government had decided to reduce the limit to 80 on Croatian highways because someone was driving 150 km. It'd be the same thing. Therefore, the government here should have adopted a bill to prevent this from happening on the one hand, then it would not have demoted citizens to give up this savings, but it would have been better if it had prevented illegal and unintended use and increased savings because at this point this difficult economic situation in the Republic of Croatia is the best way for citizens to resolve their housing issues or to repair their apartments, to reconstruct them, equipment, in any way help, make life easier for themselves. In this way this government sends them a message no, we will no longer help you, we will reduce your contribution to housing savings and thus make life difficult for you. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27419	Replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27420	You have rightly asked yourself where this is going in this way and with a bill like this. I already said today that tax hike policy, this morning we were discussing a tax hike, and now we're discussing a reduction in incentives, taking this country straight to the bottom, and we're going to become very soon aware of that because we already have practice after a year. We reduced and almost abolished some of the incentives in agriculture and livestock. The result is several thousand closed OPGs and farms. These people are at the employment office today, there is no production, the damage in the budget is much greater than the amount of incentives, and the food market is destabilising meat. We will have the same situation here and in the example of savings because the impact of abolishing or reducing incentives is not uniform and only for this year. If you have incentives that last for 10 years, 7 years, and at some point you end them, disappears and the farm disappears, the agricultural economy disappears. Someone here is going to give up saving, the damage is twice as big and immeasurable. That's the problem. And the fact is that a Croatian citizen will react to this law, will wait for a possible entry into the European Union if it happens and will find ways very easily after their terms are out of the contract and 5 years where they will go with their savings. I suppose they will go to banks located in other countries and there seek their opportunity to solve for their young families or for their children their housing and other problems. This will be the only result of this attitude towards housing savings and a reduction of incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27421	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27422	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, Boric, I just said that a third of the funds that the state places on housing savings is at a maximum of 60 million kuna. If the government were to remain on this to reduce this incentive by 60 million kuna, then it would only be possible for the Government to invest those 60 million kunas in that law on subsidising stable loans and state guarantees, because with these 60 million kunas this year, it would immediately enable the purchase of 3,000 apartments for young Croatian families who would certainly enter the model and thus resolve their housing issue. This is how we raise these 60 million kunas to all those who planned to settle the housing issue through housing savings, and where these funds will end and how only the Ministry of Finance knows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27423	And the replica has a Zeljko Shamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27424	As far as this topic is concerned, I read from the media that housing savings will need to be used this year for consolidation, i.e. as a solution to find a way to continue business or merge those savings into a stronger one. I think in this case a false step was made, that it was first to hold a thematic debate this year about the future of housing savings, and after that, if new living savings conditions should be made. This will be damaged as Article 2 of the bill says, those who signed the contracts in previous years will be damaged until 2012, because they signed contracts to win 750 kuna. In order to change the elements of the contract, they usually need to be consensual to both sides which, in this case, will not be possible, because basically the state here abolishes one important element or decreases. The provisions of this Article should, instead of Article 2, be read with respect to contracts which will be concluded after this law has entered into force. And in that case, all those who signed and made housing contracts in the previous years would not be damaged. This is how it is seen in citizens that it is not legal certainty and that it is not fair to those who have so far concluded it under other conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27425	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27426	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with you, my colleague. So if the government is going to make this change which neither you nor I agree with, then the minimum what it should have done is to make existing savings with which it was concluded by the savings bank contract to keep that height of housing, incentives for housing savings. This is how legal uncertainty is introduced. The wrong message is being sent to those who might be involved in a housing savings project this year. Because as much as we are trying to explain here and here in this debate that this is not a step towards abolishing housing savings at the same time the existing savings in the housing savings have experienced that their interest has been reduced to their housing savings by reducing the state's incentive for housing savings. So I don't believe that after this anyone will go into the project because by the year there may not be any of this state incentive and what it saves in that housing savings facility. And you said nicely in your debate you said three to four savings allow that fifth to get a housing loan. And the goal should be to the state that as many citizens as possible are saving in housing savings. For example, we heard that somewhere around six million Austrians are saving in housing savings. Well, we don't believe all six million Austrians are getting housing loans. They are encouraged through a project of housing savings by the state to save in residential savings to enable their fellow citizens to have a suitable housing issue. And that's the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27427	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 207 of the second Rules of Procedure, it is time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 13 hours and 41 minutes. I'm setting a break up to 14 o'clock or 15 o'clock. The first is the club of Croatian Labourists and Mr. Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27428	We're moving on. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Mladen Novak. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27429	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Deputy. I know, I heard you were having an affair in Sibenik, two election results and so... The law on housing savings immediately at the beginning to say Croatian Labour Laburists or the Club of Croatian Labour will be against this law and just to remind the 1990s we had this part that is now changing, 1250 kuna or if you want and in procedures we can, until now it was 750 kuna now will be a new 500 kuna which is definitely not stimulating for citizens, for those who opted for saving, housing savings, who generally opted for that form of housing savings..../ [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The speaker is not understood because of short technical difficulties. The middle layer of people they unfortunately poorer have nothing to spare, are not at that opportunity. Those who are richer, so Prime Minister Milanovic has led them into one speech as if they are misusing such a possibility, using it one way or another, so my opinion is personal if you have some knowledge that someone is breaking the law that someone is doing some malfeasance to avoid the law to use holes in the law, so it is not a solution to break the law, but unfortunately this is going to strive that tomorrow we will abolish incentives for housing savings rather than to introduce order. So my colleague Bacic mentioned if I'm not wrong about one example to give this enough credit, I can do another example. If you know someone to use maternity benefits without exercising their right to do it, to abuse the position, whether or not you'll end the full maternity benefits. Well, it doesn't have anything to do with brains, but it doesn't matter... Here it's used through the media just listed that one of the reasons for abuse... [[You don't understand what you're saying.]] That's right, that's right. [[You don't understand what you're saying.]] The real reason to be honest is that not as the Deputy Minister said he would care about the banks at the end or not the banks will abuse us and take money from us, but on the contrary, this is a bargain for the banks. He's got five housing lockers. Those who are not covered by banks have a far higher percentage of housing savings translated into housing loans. But there's one more thing I have to point out here that it's misabsorbed here, that's the whole point of gaining housing. That's not true. And adaptation, renovation, that's the same part of this law, and that's basically the law. The difference of 5 and 90%, respectively, that you, Deputy, have listed in your opening statement, is actually giving us when we hold that this should not be changed, but order should be introduced here. Therefore, the amount of incentives should not be changed. After all, just to remind you of your reactions when they were from 1250 kuna to 750, they were reduced to the same thing. The same thing you are now experiencing from today's opposition. So it can't be today for the same thing argument this and tomorrow the one, as it suits us when it suits us. Another argument that has already been mentioned several times from this pay phone, which is why we should remain in this solution, and even as much as possible, looking for a way to raise or create a better quality solution is what we very often like to compare what we like to take for example. These are countries arranged, these are countries where something like this has its own practice, it has its own history, so we often state Germany that has a significantly different model, but we can specify incentives in the Czech Republic which, unfortunately, are already far ahead of us, where incentives amount to 100 euros, in Hungary 280, and then we can look at what percentage of people are involved in this, and this is already said several times today that in Austria of 10 million people, 6 million are included in this part of housing savings. Definitely this will destroy housing savings that deal exclusively with this, and favours housing banks or banks that will cause these regular housing loans that are far more unfavourable. Yesterday we had one discussion about road vehicles, so we practically had an additional tax charge justifying the environment. Today, the deputy minister is concerned that the banks are not earning us justice again. So something's wrong with that, the fact is that whatever you turn around, it all comes down to this being an extra blow to the citizens, whether you want to admit it or not. I don't know how much it makes sense for me to repeat that sentence yesterday, but it really comes to me sometimes almost so sorry people who have to defend and represent something they don't believe in or know that defending it isn't right or fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27430	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27431	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this House Savings Act. We must say that we as a club of HNS are aware of the roles and importance of housing savings in general and especially in the Republic of Croatia. The housing savings is a closed circle where investors are saving Croatia's state, and neither are natural persons, and the beneficiaries of a residential loan are also Croatian citizens who use funds in the Republic of Croatia. The housing savings are not owed bigger for loans using exclusively savings money around 1:5 is the ratio means 5 savings to be placed. Interests on savings and loans are fixed all the time of savings, i.e. loans and thus the credit war is always the same and it is the security of the credit user, i.e. incentives for savings. Interests unlike those in banks can't just change. The law defined that the difference between interest on credit and on savings is maximum 3%, so interest on savings if 3 credit could be 6, if 2% on savings 5 is on credit. About that is moving in the Republic of Croatia means interest on loans from 3 to 5.5%. We all know that housing loans are invested in buying, adapting, building apartments or houses that encourage the economy, especially small craftsmen and firms, and unlike banks that pay the funds on the basis of housing savings costers, they use credits exclusively on accounts and pre-accounts. The housing savings system where it saves on its savings gets interest and the DPS motivates savings to save funds that make it easier to reach their goal tomorrow, and helps those in need of credit with their resources, so until they use it while they pay for the savings. What is crucial is also important in housing savings that there is no foreign borrowing, there is no oscillation in interest, there is no euro-literary, saving citizens helps the economy, people help themselves to save jobs. This is what I say in the introduction of this debate on behalf of the HNS Club to make it clear that we know what housing savings are for, which is the benefit and that any debates that have taken place and heard in this Croatian Assembly on the abolition of housing savings are absolutely inappropriate. Those models that the deputy minister in the introduction talked about amending the laws that should ensure are essentially one different model of approximation and simplification of procedures, and also the possibility for citizens to buy out new apartments, which those who are under construction, and of course those who will be in the incentive housing system is something that this government is working on and what it is obliged to deliver to us as soon as possible so that the part of the credit that goes through housing savings would be placed where citizens could secure that problem as we call it, provide a roof over their head. Of course, housing savings are not only for apartments, it can be for adaptations, furniture, etc. What we heard in the introduction and what is quite clear to us is that the number of housing savings from, say, the last three years has been moving between 398 and 393 thousand and 399 thousand. So he's a continuous number that's recognized by citizens who use housing savings as a kind of savings and planning to use through housing credit. 3.4 billion residential loans were granted to households by housing savings,... billion housing loans by business banks. And the very fact that 3 billion out of 6 who had housing savings essentially in bonds, that is, the good part was withdrawn in a way that no housing loans were used. It is clear that the government, as executive authority, has the right, has the obligation to analyse data, has the right to propose certain changes. However, these 10% instead of 15 incentives, i.e. 750 that goes to 500 kuna compared to 5000 kuna, which is necessary for the annual savings to be paid annually, the figure remains and I agree on behalf of the HNS club with the promoter, with the fact that the goal will continue to be achieved in terms of savings in housing savings. Why? We listened to Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, traditions that exist and we introduce them and 399 thousand housing savings are not a small number at all, not a small number at all, but of course it would be much better if it were more but it's not a small number. So when an example is given to the Czech Republic, then I must say that in the Czech Republic, there is 10% incentive to save. Thus, we are not even outside the scope of those who prove to be examples. In Austria and Slovakia, there are 22 euros per 1000 euros to be saved annually. The savings interest, unlike in Croatia, that range from 1 to 3% of the living savings while without incentives in Austria is 0.2%, that would be the case. Therefore, when we compare and give examples of other countries that have a true tradition and through which housing savings and have achieved certain effects which is why it exists, then when we extract these figures and compare ourselves then we can say that absolutely at this point 10% is not small, 10% is still extremely profitable for saving because if you get 10% of the state and get 3% of the housing savings account that is an exceptional income that you can't even realise on the capital market today, especially with certainty. And then in particular, you have the opportunity to take a living credit for 20 years with a fixed interest that is now moving somewhere from 3 to 5%, which, of course, depends on the interest that you have during your savings. These are absolutely good conditions to stimulate citizens to remain in housing, and we expect from the Government a proposal that would prevent the possibility that the situation we have is being saved, so it is not used to invest and encourage the economy and to achieve the goals for which there is a housing savings draws money, so it is returned through housing savings and we expect that through these laws it will regulate and further stimulate people to enter housing savings and that what is crucially used further. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, we support the adoption of this law and we believe that it is no abolition of housing savings, and that we are still at the top of the issue of fostering housing savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27432	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one came forward by Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27433	Thank you very much, Vice President. You listed how many loans were converted from housing savings to housing loans, but that's not even a condition. No one calls it a condition. It is important that housing savings are used for investment in living conditions, and now you will not go to raise credit if you have achieved 30000 kuna through your housing savings. It takes so much to adapt the house. Now you're going to take out a loan just to satisfy whose appetites or desires. This is when you mentioned certain percentages that are in other countries you probably apostrophe to those of my 100 euros in the Czech Republic. Well, I must remind you that the opening exhibition had a colleague from the SDP who precisely cited the same amounts I said, and among other things, the housing savings in the Czech Republic have more than 50% of the population. In Slovakia and Hungary about 25 to 30% of the total population, this relative to our 10% is to be honest really much, much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27434	Thank you, too. Reply to the replica of counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27435	Dear colleague, is it 15% or 10%? Was there 1250 kuna you mentioned not significantly affected by the use of housing savings for residential loans. Therefore, it is necessary to create some other conditions for citizens to invest in new assets or building adaptations other than housing savings. We like to compare ourselves with other countries, and that's good, because it's the only way to know where we are, to see who's behind us, who's right in front of us, what's good about those who have experience. However, Croatian citizens and this government have their own approach, as this Croatian Parliament has its decisions and way of stimulating both housing savings and building housing and solving accumulated problems in construction and very many apartments that are free.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27436	Thank you. And the next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague of what is fundamentally wrong with this government's decision is that it is in fact a destimulating measure not only for housing savings. She is, above all, a dimming measure for young people. We send a bad message, send a bad message to young people, that when someone is 40 years old, it is not bad for him to invest funds in housing by creating preconditions for his children and for them. Therefore, that is not what Minister Linic said once. Says the housing savings served people who were a little more liquidated to make a little more money on interest. Come on, please, and it's $750 a year. But we help kids that way until they get to be themselves, and you can start normal, and if you do, you're taken care of. I don't see anything wrong with allowing you to save your living. This is what we need to encourage our young people to stay here, not to move out of Croatia. And the government of the Republic of Croatia you said 10% savings here. We heard there are also those where 50% and 60% of citizens are saved. So the basic message is that the state budget won't reduce what comes from 750 to 500 kuna incentives. But it's even worse to announce that there will be no further incentive to this housing savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27438	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27439	I don't know about those announcements that you're saying I didn't hear it coming out that it's gonna go away. So, apart from encouraging housing savings, what I'm going to repeat is that the 10% plus interest you get from the housing savings bank is an extremely large income at this point, looking at interest income and fixed interest that you can get at 20 years is more than quality for one who wants to provide an apartment, adaptation, etc. But I just want to make it clear that this is not the only measure when you talk about the young people that this government has, and these are POS's apartments, these are the measures that we inherited, and last year we extended what counterpart Bacic had to do with the part, the state participated in co-financing the purchase of apartments. So when we talk about housing savings and lending, then we're talking about a package of measures that the deputy was talking about, and the profit obtained in the housing savings bank is much bigger than anywhere that can get savings with certainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27440	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Zlatko Komadina, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I personally believe that the state can help as much as the state is strong. I understand this law only in this sense how the state budget falls and everything falls together, then and what is alimony from the state budget in the work must probably be reduced. Personally, I'm not happy that this part is shrinking at all, I'd like it to be the same or even bigger, but it would be worth hearing those who have already reduced it before us, so I'm here to deny the right of my colleagues from HDZ to speak critically about this law because they've reduced it from 25% to 15%, so it would be worth hearing, I don't know if I've missed all the time in Sally, Mr. Shucker, who was then a minister of finance to us, for example. Explain the reasons that led them then to reduce from 25 to 15. I'm deeply hoping that neither that government nor let alone this one help the business banks because I'm against abolishing housing savings and I think we're mixing pears and apples. Today is not about eliminating housing savings as such. The arguments we've heard from some of our colleagues, we can agree with them and we don't have to. I don't think housing savings have been abused, and besides, what it means to abuse housing savings. So you've tied up your money for five years and you've been encouraged to do so, so you've invested your money, so the purpose of it all was to stimulate people to actually create capital for realising the housing venture, let's say so, and this other model that's a model or something like that should give you the opportunity to have as much as possible, to have a more favourable price of the apartment, not to buy someone's profits and profits on the housing market, which was until yesterday when the apartments were making 50-60% at the price it was built for 800 euros per square or 600-700 and sold for a thousand 500. At least I know it well down in the Primorje and more than two thousand euros depends on the location. Therefore absolutely should work systematically on this and further laws should prevent possible abuses which may have been but I would say sooner by business banks than by individuals because some business banks are their own savings banks in fact... to direct citizens towards their regular placement and force them to increase their credit risk with variable interest rates, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have information I don't know who has it, but I have it... Placed 90% of the credit, the weakest is one of our biggest business banks, through its savings bank, hence something is rotten and it can be clearly seen what is there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The thing is, it's important to create a total housing savings mass that was created in this way about 6.7 billion, which is somewhere around 6% of the total credit rating of all those who are placed. So I'm saying, finally, I consider this only as a measure of the state budget and of the people who take care of it, of the possibilities that everything out of it can be alimony and finance, and it doesn't consider it necessary to start to discuss the abolition of the state-sponsored housing savings. But I'd like my colleague Shucker to report for the replica, so maybe I'll wake him up and wake him up to report for the replica, to hear why he ended it then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27442	Thank you. We have three replicas. Mladen Novak came in first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27443	Thank you very much. Comrade Komadin said at first let's say in some ways we don't have the right to ask you I can agree that some things would be really questionable how much to discuss, colleague on the other hand if I colleague Bačić had said ok. We made a mistake with 1250 with 750 and he personally thinks it was a bad move, but if I see someone doing something bad, which I'm going to prove to him by the same measure, I'm going to return it to the same bad, and this is just as bad. What makes this different than that? It's just that let's say it's less than a percentage, but it's also bad. Abuse you say you are not aware that there are and that there can be at all abuse of someone who gives their money and saves their money, but it was used as one of the arguments and you say this isn't, it's not talk about ending housing incentives but unfortunately it's said. And it's just that everything is going that way, the whole of Europe that we're looking for, and that part of Europe that we want to look at because Europe and Greece and Spain, because they have, they encourage that housing savings, they develop a culture of housing savings, and we're sending exactly the opposite message. A month ago, a month and a half ago, there was a debate here. That's when I said the problem is that you send bad vibrations to people. On this side they're totally going message-depressive, but I think it should be the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27444	Thank you, too. Replication response, Comrade Komadin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27445	Well, I think I made it clear to my colleague that I don't think this is being introduced not because it's a good reduction, but because the budget doesn't have adequate opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27446	Next line, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27447	Thank you, dear colleague. You've been honest and that's how it works, then you should say it. You told the truth, every country helps as much as it can, but then it should have been said that it's because we're in such a bad state. The state simply can no longer carry it, not justice, to look for arguments that offend and those who are in the best interest to pay that housing savings. Well, the annual limit is five thousand kunas, right? And now you get 750 kunas of encouragement in 5,000 kunas, it may seem like nothing to someone, but many people find it a really important way to keep him and the little money they have from falling apart. But then you have to say that's because there's no funds in the state budget and not talking like I've already been talking about stuffing up a complex of people who've been using housing savings that they wanted to make a little more money on interest like the finance minister said. The wolf is constantly being dragged by the government of the Republic of Croatia, which sends a bad message, I said they are depressing, wider pessimism and what little resources we have to share fairly and evenly to everyone but let's finally give more and more positive to those citizens, not just impose new taxes and impositions, and so where citizens can benefit there and we take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27448	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27449	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Komadina, I didn't discuss this on purpose, but when you pulled me by the tongue, I'll tell you. Pull one thing out of the context of time and space when it happened and compared to this one today you simply can't if you don't methodically reduce to the same level, you know that very well. So then there was a time of historically low interest rates, there was if ever the growth structure was booming at that moment, so the privates were building apartments, there was POS, the banks were lending so it just kept going. And at that point, it was a difference in interest rates, and it just seemed that it was unnecessary to pay that much difference because people would save anyway because if you get in a business bank of 3, 3.5 and here it gets 7% or 8% of the logical thing that you're going to go there. So that was for a while. Today, housing has practically stopped, it doesn't exist, the construction industry is collapsed. When you look at these companies that signed this agreement, you will see that it is most of these companies and the logical thing is if you are already reducing these funds that you may have accepted that model that was a colleague of Bačić while he was a minister and that may have been the most successful model for selling apartments. The banks were at a certain risk, investors who built it were at a certain risk, and the state was giving incentives to buy these apartments and to re-route those funds back to the economy, it doesn't matter how. So that's what this is about. But I'm saying when you pull things out of context and you say you cut this down here, not put things exactly how it was then it turns out the way it turns out. But I don't think in this assembly anyone is in the interest of now attacking the government because it only reduces it, but simply if I remember defending that law in this Visko home on this side they warned me that it would be far greater damage, that... it would have to pay a billion and 500 million security savings because all housing savings would fail. However, the housing savings have not failed and if I am not mistaken, and my colleague Lalovac can see it, I ask you only two more sentences, you will see that with this reduction in the rate, so how many countries subsidized housing savings there were several other provisions that redirected housing savings that some of the funds had to be placed exactly in a certain way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27450	Thank you, fellow Shuker. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27451	Well, I just did, and thank Mr. Shucker for confirming what I said, circumstances make you eat. So you didn't have the need then because you say there were cheap... favourable loans through business banks, and now the possibilities of others are the same one that gave the incentive a little bit weaker to give such incentives, as the state budget would say. On the other hand, what you're talking about and saying is you and some of your colleagues don't even write about the law at all. So it doesn't say that the housing savings will be abolished or it says that it's being carried because someone called it unintendedly spent. That's not what the law says. And who said that's his problem. Maybe a man knows someone like that, so he's under the impression, for example. I used 1250 kunas of housing savings and all my children. And I raised that money normally that I picked up. But also for some three years, I paid for the communal contribution with it, and I didn't use it then, I didn't have... so I guess we understand what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27452	Thank you very much. And finally on behalf of the HDZ club Branko Bačić, 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll just say very briefly that the HDZ Club is against this law because it detimises citizens and in one of the best and most attractive forms of housing savings in the Republic of Croatia. It's a bad message for saving in the Republic of Croatia, and certainly for this model that we all said was far the most attractive model of housing savings so far envisaged. Another thing I'd also like to say is that if that's 1/3 of the state's incentives and we planned 200 million kuna in the budget for state incentives for housing, it means 1/3 is somewhere at 66 million kuna. This is what I said in my opening part of only 1% of state subsidies in this year, which will be subsidized citizens, households or companies, and therefore some important savings will not happen. That's why I'm surprised, Mr. Komadina, that you say that when the government estimates that the budget lacks funds, it also comes to this. In fact, this law we are discussing the second day of this year's session of the Parliament. What am I saying? It's only 24 days that there's a new state budget on stage. So when the government proposed a budget, I guess she knew about this law that she was about to pass and that she was going to try to save 60 million kuna, so all after 24 days of the new state budget, we now remembered that we were missing 60 million kuna. It's no excuse and you have to agree with me on that, so this is somewhere in the 12th month, the 11th month, but at the beginning when there's not even a split subsidy we're already thinking, the government thinks you're short of 60 million kuna, and I'm saying that 0.005% of the total funding of the state budget. But if the government has decided what we disagree with, then we suggest that you adopt an amendment to the HDZ Club that we have invested in the state budget when we said that we could deal with these funds with 60 million kunas if we return to that law on subsidisation and state-owned housing loans, then at the moment we could provide 3,000 young Croatian families with care through that law and thus, if we have already given up what we are opposed to, then at least send those funds where they will best be used according to that model for subsidising residential loans. Well, at least that's how much we make concessions for young Croatian families who in that law have found ways to solve their housing issues. And finally, as a pregnant woman can't be a little pregnant, but either she's pregnant or not, the state funds can't be used for any purpose, they're either used for purpose or not used for purpose. By reducing the subsidy from 750 to 500, we will not stop the accidental use of housing savings. Therefore, either cancel it or leave it at 750, but a 30% reduction will not reduce the accidental use of housing savings. The one who uses 750 kuna unintendedly will also use 500 kuna, so that's not an argument to you. The argument is that the government is not friendly with this kind of lending of housing savings in the Republic of Croatia and thus resolving the housing issues of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27454	Thank you, too. We have a replica reported by Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27455	Thank you. Dear colleague, you're right about the pregnancy. It can only happen that someone doesn't even know he's pregnant. Yeah, yeah, the little girl was picking strawberries, she was stabbing something, she thought it was weed, but good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, your debate is completely in place. Or if it is intended to prevent accidental spending, then it should be prevented to waste 1%, not 10%. So it's not an argument, it's what we said, there's no means, and then you're not gonna tell the real truth. But now that we add to this beautiful scale the measure of real estate tax, now imagine how this will ultimately, this plus real estate tax will have an impact on the construction sector and ultimately on the value of real estate. We're really going to come to a zero market for real estate and real estate. But something else is worrying, so it's been announced that there's also talk of abolishing incentives other than this on housing savings and voluntary pension funds, and there's 15%. On voluntary pension funds, it is, for the time being, but Minister Mrsic has seriously announced that possibility. Now look, in the 2015 budget projection, we had planned that for savings incentives in voluntary pension funds there would be about 50 million kuna, for housing savings you predicted 200 million kuna. You deceived the Croatian public, the MPs here then and when you proposed the budget. You put that as numbers, and that 250 million kuna you're going to delete or you're going to cut them drastically.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27456	Thank you. The next replica, Zlatko Komadina. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27457	Well, listen, I have to get back to you because that's exactly what I said when I first debated and I have to say that I'm surprised at my colleague Bačić, who I really respect, and we've worked very hard on this extra explanation because I just said that if anyone has the right to discuss it then these colleagues in the middle could, they haven't been guilty so far. But I don't understand how you can argue that this is ours as you said we're sending the wrong message by down 5%, and you sent a wonderful message by 10%. I mean, I really have to admit that this logic doesn't exactly hold a healthy one. And my colleague Shuker explained very nicely to you, and he would have been very quiet about it, but then I can say something different now, then I can say that you're the ones who took advantage of the business banks, if I'm going to be naughty. But I'm not gonna be bad, so I'm gonna say it wasn't supposed to be like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27458	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27459	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I'm sorry, Mr. Komadina, that you weren't at the beginning of the debate when Mrs. Jelash said on behalf of the SDP club that in a certain way she criticized the HDZ government which entered in 2005 the amount of housing subsidy. Well, now I don't understand if you're criticizing what we did in 2005 how you're now defending what you're doing in 2013. You're not here until the end, that's what this is all about. I'm talking, and that's what I said in my statement that I'm not happy and satisfied that the government did it in 2005, but that doesn't mean that now I have to defend this law, that's what this is about. And as for the fact that we were dealing with business banks in 2005, you probably know that all those savings are owned by these same business banks anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27460	Thank you. And the last replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27461	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bacic is on the trail right now, and this replica of his colleague Komadina is not good enough for the world to stop in one country when one government goes away, it starts when another government comes. So there's a model from the government that's been effective has been agreed with him, and I'm asking you to present the numerical data. And with that model, you should have continued until you found a better model. And I don't mind that, it's your policy as much as you're going to encourage housing savings. But if you told me at the time as a minister that it would have to pay a billion and 500 million for all the housing savings to go down, and now look at the wonders now it's going to grow great and bloom, then I don't get it. So this can be seen not from the statements of your people at the time who were talking about finance, the economy. But I repeat only. We're at the moment when our construction operation is so low-building, so high-building on our knees. And instead of going along with the business banks that are going to be in a lot of trouble, because these construction companies are business bank committees. Many large and expensive projects in Zagreb have started and have problems with completion. Instead of all finding a model to sell what we have now and that the government that finally took responsibility offers some kind of model that would be better than what was before. And there's no problem at all. I don't see here that we're talking bile now someone's using illegal, like this, like that. If they use housing savings illegally, they know who's controlling them, who's in charge of them, get them inside, hit them on the tail and say good-bye. After all, most of these housing savings are basically based on one of the big banks and I really don't see what's bile here. And after all, who's going to save where, who's going to invest in what way, that's one problem. However, I think the biggest problem at this time is the real estate market in Croatia 370,000 unemployed, the fear of people being tomorrow and a completely negative atmosphere that has been created around the real estate market and which Croatian citizens, Croatian construction, will pay for a long time. Because when you create fear in a particular economic branch, the press doesn't achieve anything, let alone economic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27462	Thanks, buddy. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Comrade Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27463	You're right, you're a colleague of Shucker's. So in 2005, when the level of state incentives on housing savings was reduced, it should be made clear that there was a flood of favourable housing loans from business banks on the real estate market in Croatia. And at that point, that's no excuse. I don't want to justify it today, but at that point these loans that are based on housing savings weren't so attractive, they were more than when it was a flood of favourable loans, these loans for which at least five years were not so attractive. Although there is one faster version of faster savings when you can after two years, but they are a little more unfavourable to get that housing loan by this model. Thus, it was not well done at the time. But I, too, am surprised to the government that she did not continue with a model that would truly win, which in the past two years has received a remarkable result where 2250 young Croatian families with 30 million kuna have resolved their housing requirements, housing needs, and I do not see why this project is not going on. It stops, some new models have opened up that have already proved ineffective over the past 12 years and will not according to this new model that has been announced. That's why on behalf of the club, we've given the amendment. I invite Mr. Deputy here to continue this project. Otherwise, when the model was introduced two years ago, the government was accused of raising banks, as it would not lower the price of a square metre in the Republic of Croatia according to the model. And at the end of the epilogue of the model is that the square meter bears an average price of 1360 euros, which is more than 25% lower than the average price of the apartment in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27464	Thank you. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27465	Final proposal of the Act amending the law on housing savings and the state incentive of housing savings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 248. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 83 votes in favour of, 35 votes against, one abstention passed law amending the law on housing savings and the state incentive of housing savings in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27466	We're continuing at 6. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 246. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27467	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27468	Deputy Minister, just a second. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like your attention. We're a little bit more in the mood for the story today, but please the announcement is quite weak and refrain from commenting from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, very briefly. Because this is a technical question. In order to resolve the duties of the first Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy who was in office and the chairman of the Agency's administration, it is proposed that the chairman of the Agency be Minister of Finance and that the number of members be reduced from 3 to 2. In addition, a majority of the votes will be taken by the administration next to that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27470	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27471	Oh, here, I'll do it very briefly. The proposer's representative explained it. I could only perhaps draw attention to the illogicality. So far, the president of the State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation was also vice-president of the government, who was minister of the economy. After these two duties have been separated, neither is the one who has taken over the first Deputy Prime Minister, nor the one who has taken over the office of Minister of Economy has been appointed to this place, but we see a certain exaggeration in which it is now the Minister of Finance, so it is a bit of a illogical context and logic from which this kind of decision came. We're a little worried. I mean, maybe he could have been a finance minister from the start, so we wouldn't have to change this law like this. But if that's your decision, we won't mind just hoping that we won't, that we won't have to decide again every few months and make changes to these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27472	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. Nikola Vuljanić, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not surprised by these preambles, they're actually perfectly clear to me and I understand how it happened to them and everyone here is clear in fact. What I'm surprised is that the ministry has not proposed that this law be called a little different and that it's called the law on the state agency to secure savings deposits and resuscitation of the bank. We have one left, when according to the sales announcements, it will be called the law on the state-run deposit insurance agency. Or perhaps the Croatian National Bank keeps foreign currency reserves amounting to 16 billion euros which are greater than the central government's debt to resuscitate foreign banks, private-owned banks, banks that have the funds and money of citizens who created that foreign currency cut have absolutely nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27474	Replication response, Mr. Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27475	But you, Mr. Vuljanic, are not well aware of the current developments around the banks, there are still more banks that could be rescinded, so you have not noticed that the state has recently partially rescheduled one small bank, and I think another one in the meantime, there will be these small banks where if there is political will to spend more taxpayers' money, so don't underestimate the notion of resuscitation of banks. If there is political will, I believe that there will be banks in which this government will be able to spend a little more taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27476	Replica Mladen Novak, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27477	Thank you very much. You said that all of this surprises you, I'm not surprised because the institutions of the state administration don't work, the OIB system hasn't yet functioned in the fullest sense of the word, otherwise it would probably be the OIB, images of the person and such things, this is a bit ironic. The fact is to change the law because of a person and it really doesn't have anything to do with brains or this paints good relations within the coalition, so now we're a little bit stronger than you oranges, and while you oranges were stronger than us reds was like Pippi, kind of.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27478	Thank you. Replication response, Mr Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27479	When you mention the OIB I as a citizen can never forgive those who ruined JMBG and forced us to this OIB no matter what those who deal with finance thought it would be useful but I am very sorry for JMBG and I will never forget it. As far as that goes, no matter what the law says, I can't bring it out in public. And otherwise the interesting thing is that when it comes to stability the other day we talked about concessions on agricultural land, how this concession will last 50 years. So we see how long all the laws last, all the things we do, so it doesn't take a month, two, three, five, half of the mandate, part of the mandate, one term if one constitution endures before constitutional changes, and so unfortunately it does with most of the laws. Most of them are brought more or less unprepared, in haste, and then followed by this and followed by this way of debate where actually we as advocates are just forced to do the will of the promoter who brings this kind of speed, so... And here we serve only as some cover so that they can do those things for their needs, regardless of the lack of quality and implementation that we also discuss with those who suggest it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27480	Thank you, on behalf of the HDZ Club Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Offered by both these replicas and replies to the replicas, I think there are some things that need to be explained. Always headed by the DAB is primarily the Deputy Prime Minister for the Economy. In some tactical changes and during the HDZ government, at one point the government's vice-president for the economy became the economy minister, so it was later to the coalition government, it was the second pair of shoes. However, the DAB administration was always headed by the government's vice-president for the economy. I have no objection to my colleague Linic being president of the administration but it is illogical that there are many shares of Croatian companies in the management of the DAB because from the time of the first, second and third banking crisis in the Republic of Croatia and the portfolio of DAB, it is not logical that the economy minister is not in the management of the DAB. It's something that's unusual, illogical. There were also very strange resolutions, but it was very interesting when the Post Office found itself at a certain point in the problems when capital and capital adequateness were to be raised, so when DAB carried out a hybridly armed for five years and thus practically capitalised the Post office bank, then there were many problems why it did so to a state bank, why it does not do so to economic banks, etc. I think the DAB has played a very positive role in the past, after all, you saw what happened when there was a problem with the Kreed Bank as they... and reacted quickly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sometimes in crisis situations, it is necessary to respond in due time to avoid simply chasing after business banks and when it happens, the only result is the banking and financial crisis. I also agree that I don't know who was saying this to my colleague Vuljanic or colleague Đurović about the very strange resolutions of some smaller business banks, some strange bypasses, but it's very important to look at what credit arrangements these banks had then you'll understand everything. I repeat on behalf of the HDZ Club I do not object to this matter of the Government, we believe that the Minister of Economy should, in any case, be the management of the DAB for the simple reason that there are many shares in the DAB portfolio and the logical thing that the Minister of Economy, for informing the government and everything must be informed about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27482	Thank you. We have two replicas reported, the first one is Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27483	Thank you. I don't give a shit which minister's in DAB. whether it was the finance minister, economy minister, culture minister or sports minister as long as the DAB rescheduled Croatian citizens' money from a private bank, while doing what the entire liberal and neoliberal Europe and the entire neoliberal world are doing. As long as he's doing it, I don't care which minister's in there, I think it's a bad job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27484	Thank you. Replication response, fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27485	My colleague Vuljanić, I regret to tell you that you are obviously not well informed, do not be offended because banks pay 1% of their funds in DAB and thus create a reserve that helps when another bank comes into crisis. So it's from the funds of a business bank, not the funds. So that recovery of the first and second banking crisis was a burden for Croatian citizens, which is why I was talking about this portfolio. But right now, every business bank I think is 1.5% I don't know a colleague, right, Lalovec, I don't think he'd say wrongly about paying in DAB, and that's how you form an asset that God doesn't give away, like what happened to Credo Bank reacts promptly, people get paid for guaranteed savings, and in such a way simply prevent what happened in all European countries. Because when the stampede goes to the business bank, no one can save you anymore, when you save your money, you almost have chaos. So let the neoliberalism do this or what it doesn't have, this is a matter for all of us. Whatever God forbid any bank should shake in Croatia, don't God let anyone experience it then they'd see it. I unfortunately experienced and experienced it when the economic crisis began in the fall of 2008 when security of foreign exchange savings was raised and I know well what was happening in one of our business banks that Friday afternoon. And if we hadn't raised our security savings that it didn't send the citizens a message that saving insurance was a question of God whether today one of the strongest banks would be more there today, and what would be with the banking sector at that moment in the Republic of Croatia because the whole world was shaking. Therefore, sometimes because of this or that reason the devil should not be called upon, he is always there somewhere. And you don't need to call him at all, he'll come alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27486	Thank you. And the last replica Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27487	I'm getting... Mr. Shuker. This insurance premium paid to DAB was reportedly 0.2, so it was down to 0.1, so I don't know if you know or if I don't know what that insurance premium is now, since it's the income of the state budget. Some believe that in these years and this year, the state budget is quite damaged, at the same time as the DAB's premium of business banks dropped simultaneously to the level secured by the deposit from 100 to 400. Does anyone know what that amount is and would it actually make sense to go to an increase in that percentage of insurance as a state income? It is much easier to get into the state budget so little than by a series of measures we have been meeting in recent days and we are sick of being taken directly from Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27488	Thank you. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27489	A colleague, Djurovic, is not the income of the state budget. Every time with the budget you have a financial plan of the state agency and to look at a little unfortunately with the budget comes a lot of documents that are not seen look at a little bit of these documents so you would see that this is DAB's income, that's DAB's income. and this revenue can be used precisely by certain rules for reasons that the funds paid by the commercial banks to practically guarantee the savings of Croatian citizens cannot be used in any way. And it's not the state budget's revenue, it's the DAB's income.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27490	Thank you. Thank you very much, fellow Shucker. This is what we've ended the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27491	Final proposal of the Act amending the law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, emergency procedure, first and second reading of PZE No 246. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 88 for, 6 votes against and 24 votes have been abstentioned by the law amending the law on the state agency for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks in the text as proposed by the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27492	We continue with: 8. Proposed Nanny Act, first reading, PZE No. 214. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27493	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the Nanny Act, namely a brand-new law in Croatian legislation. So this is the first time such a law has ever been written in Croatia. When we looked at a few other countries, it was arranged differently,... countries where there is in principle no legislation where, for example, you. Young girls who come to learn a foreign language actually do nanny work. So when you have some complaints and objections to this law, you have to make sure that in many other countries it is much more looser and almost not even regulated by law. Why we decided to write the law, and because of 132 women who had passed the education thanks to IPA project funds, so 132 women who had completed education received certain certificates and permission to be able to deal with nanny affairs, but they could not do this job so far because there was no legal basis at all that this job could be done in Croatia. There are a lot of large waiting lists in Croatia at this time, somewhere around 5,000 children who could not find their place in preschool institutions and in general around 70% of preschool children in Croatia are not covered by kindergartens for a variety of reasons, most often it is not because of someone's will but because units of local self-government do not have enough resources to build, let alone to maintain a very expensive mechanism such as kindergarten. There are some municipalities I can't, e.g. there is one municipality that has 130 and some children who should be placed in kindergartens, unfortunately they do not have 2 million kunas to make the first initial study, let alone to enter the construction of kindergartens and maintain everything. Of course, that doesn't mean that the nannies are being replaced in any way by kindergartens. So this is, I'd like to ask you to keep an eye on this, this is an extra-institutional concern, so this has nothing to do with kindergartens or getting into pre-school care. This is simply a service, an auxiliary tool that can help parents to provide children more easily. After all, it is something that may be 50, 60 years old lives in Croatia, but unfortunately it is one disorganized work, i.e. working on black and recently, there has been a problem of inspections that have been abroad all these years and have not entered families that have been engaged in childcare services, so that we no longer have one space that is in the sphere of black and illicit work, it is good that we still prescribe some minimum standards for doing that job. I hope that these 132 women who have passed the education and who have put some kind of pressure on the Ministry to regulate this and open up space for them to do so, too, to enter the labour market. So this is something that opens up space and employs a number of women who at the moment have all the qualifications to deal with it, but open space to those who would like to do the nanny work tomorrow with the necessary education. We in law tried to open as many ways as possible to become a nanny. If we are in some of our intentions to open up as much space as possible, we may have opened up space for certain abuses. If this comes from this debate, we will consider it by the second reading and, of course, change that part in the law because it is of interest to all of us that in this debate, which is already here for two days and takes on boards, we get a much better and better law than what we have put before you at this moment. On the other hand, many of us are asking us to put into law the obligation of local self-government units to co-finance nannies. We think it should remain as an open possibility. Many units of local self-government are already now since we sent them a letter in the 10th month informing them that the law will be in force next year so that they can secure initial funds. Some have already provided certain resources to see how many women will report for nanny work in their midst to help them be as competitive as possible on the market and that parents have to pay less. I hope that maybe some other laws that will follow will help to make this nanny system more competitive on the market, which is a law that should arrive very quickly before you from the Ministry of Labour and Pensions system that should arrange temporary and occasional jobs, which would allow the nanny so that this temporary and occasional childcare can be regulated in a much cheaper and more quality way for parents. So in all our debates, since this was a law that still worked with co-workers from several resistors because it also includes parts of crafts, so entrepreneurship and education systems and pre-school activities, so several ministries. What might be the best model for a nanny's job is a twist. There may also be some space that may be imposed in the craft chamber even a little bit lower, but that is something we will try to see in the conversation with them so that indeed what the nanny has to pay and if this is now reduced to a really minimal minimum was in some financial frameworks that can make her competitive on the market. I hope, therefore, that this law on nannyes here in its practice will prove to be a good start to put such a single job into legal frameworks, to allow people some rules of play for all those who want to deal with the job of the nanny and on the other hand to provide parents with another service, one auxiliary mechanism. On the other hand, it may help some units of local self-government who do not have enough money for kindergarten, at least to bridge with this nanny co-financing, child care at this preschool age, which I once again stress, of course, does not replace kindergartens and mangers. This is just one auxiliary mechanism, one service that should therefore be primarily at the parents' service to take care of their children when they go to work. I hope that this nanny system will be much more flexible than the preschool system if the parents need it in some evenings babysitting, so much so we can use this law on temporary and occasional jobs that will a little flexible this perhaps solid system that we have so far. Here's maybe the details I wouldn't go on. Therefore, a certain education will be prescribed, which, at the moment, is not uniform. So each school had its own captainate and some of its contents that educated a number of women. We will now try to make unique criteria for education with the agency and try to reduce this captainship because the job of the nanny should not be this much burdened with education. We think you might be able to do that in some small number of hours for education. On the other hand, control mechanisms that were also referred to on committees where many advocates thought it was necessary to strengthen them only make sure that it was a contractual relationship between a parent and a child-sitter, so it was until now when the parent decided so in his arrangement who would take care of his child. So here's to keeping an eye on the fact that this law shouldn't put too many obstacles. He has to put minimum standards, he has to have some control mechanisms, but not to put too much pressure on the whole system and then make some blockades ourselves, and then it won't be something that would be available to parents, and eventually, the women who will deal with the nanny's affairs. Here's so much for insight. We will listen to your arguments in the debate and once again I just want to tell you that we are ready for everything that you really argue in your debate as something that is not a good solution in this law to change until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27494	Thank you too, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth. In fact, I've missed this opportunity, and I welcome your co-workers. We also have a replica on your opening statement. Comrade Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27495	Thank you, Vice President, Madam Prime Minister. Well I don't know is some kind of critical replica, even though I think this is a good thing and it's good to make this law. But I was initiated to report that one of your sentences where you expressed one concern perhaps in your part that you should perhaps talk to the Chamber of crafts about making it a little easier. Well, that's the only problem here, and it seems to me that this law doesn't happen that one good idea, that one good way to take care of preschool children and, of course, older age and employment, self-employment actually comes across some bureaucratic obstacles that are not necessary and necessary, so I think that I really need to take care of it to make it easier, loosen up a little bit and encourage this process to achieve this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27496	Thank you, too. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Unless I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27497	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, this bill that we have in front of us certainly doesn't come from a zero point, no matter what the minister said was a new law that it is. It enters a very stalking system in our premises which unfortunately came from burning needs precisely because of these about 5,000 children who are so to say waiting for their place in preschool institutions. What may not be good, and what we should think about until the second reading is that we are passing the Law of Interest, not passing the Act of Activity, that we do not have the nanny classified in the national classification of activities as well as in the national classification of professions. National classifications are not in line with EU legislation by 2013, so here it is already in the name of the laws of space for thinking. By 2007, until the adoption of the new Preschool Education and Education Act, we had in some way a nanny system, i.e. to carry out nanny activities as such, at least somewhat resolved. Children were kept on their own or performed as a secondary profession. And since then, since 2007 we've been looking for a new model. We can certainly say two things about this bill at first. The first is that it is commendable that we are trying to solve this mess on the market by passing laws. And the second that it is good that this is the first reading of this bill, because in the work of all these committees in these two days it has been seen that there are a lot of irregularities that, if implemented in this way in practice, will cause terrible, terrible problems. As stated here in the assessment of the situation and as the minister herself stated, although we did not have legislation, we have taken certain measures to train persons to carry out the work of the nanny. For example, in 2010 a project for the training of babysitters was implemented in Rijeka, which was verified by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and wrote in the introduction of this proposal that 16 nannies were trained through the project. But it's not. It is not because these grants have been spent within the fourth component of the IPA human potential development programme. The owners of the project in Rijeka did not complete the hours it was due to be carried out. The students of that course couldn't get confirmation that they were really nannies and now here they are forced to pay 6 thousand kuna themselves to essentially bring this education to an end. In Ivanić town, for example. was the problem of enrolling in the workbook of the students. It has been trained in the proposal 136 from the minister now listens to 132 people and is now spent in this fourth component of IPARD pre-accession funds over a million kunas, so to train these 132 or 136 women. It's about eight thousand kuna per person. So here's what we can conclude from this statement that no matter what we've been trying to do, we haven't done it very well. Whether because we didn't know what kind of law we wanted or whether using pre-accession funds solves the problems of unemployed workers, unemployed women, or because of that I think we're going to get an answer. So we said that it was a new form of child care outside the institutional form and that establishing the fulfilment of those personal and professional conditions for the carrying out of the activities or jobs of the nanny is in the jurisdiction of family centres in the counties. Unfortunately, we lack two family centers, so I hope that by the second reading we will have resolved in this bill if they are not established as those who should do what they should do until the new law is applied. The family centres of water and the special registry of the nanny and the special directory of the nanny and are the coordinators of the activities of the nanny and the parents and provide and improve the nanny through the provision of professional education. However, these family centres are not required to carry out expert supervision because Article 39(1) states that, besides the inspectors of the Ministry of Social Policy and other authorised officials, expert supervision can but do not have to carry out family centres which is not good, regardless of what we have detected that the nannies exist, regardless of what we want these nannies to do in the simplest possible, simple way in ours to say the market of providing here their services. We must not think for a moment about the fact that we are taking care of children, and that even as the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, we have long been demoted and we are all here to give children good care and that we are not going to leave anything to the case. So maybe you could do a little bit more about that, too. It is one thing to keep children in a parenting home where the nanny and family conclude the contract and to keep it in that parent home where the children are kept and the other is if these nannies are registered for some of their activities. If we consider, for example. that the nanny can guard 6 children from whom, for example, all are healthy and older than one year of age, then, according to this bill, we say that the nanny can carry out the activity as a craftsman, as a company or as a cooperative. It is very dangerous to allow this activity to be carried out as a commercial company for the simple reason that it is easy for existing companies to make it up to registration to carry out their activities at that time to hire an authorised person to do the nanny's work. A few more nannies hired, rented a certain business space that will satisfy minimum hygiene technical conditions and that in that one space, I don't know two nanny with twelve children, three nanny with 18 children or four nanny with 24 children, which basically leads to a kindergarten or a preschool institution. In this case, however, nannies in this case do not really have to have the capacity of these premises in such a way as to be bound by kindergartens. And I think we should be very careful here. When we talk about the nanny registration as a craftsman, we'll all agree that we'd like to have as little paperwork as possible to solve this as easily as possible, to have as little giving as possible because it's even a question of what is the cost-effectiveness of the number of children in relation to the obligations that this nanny has to respect. Since we don't have a rule with this law that rules are passed afterwards, we don't know what the conditions are, we can't do a quality cost calculation and a nanny at one screening, say, of 6 healthy children, so we can't talk about it with certainty, but knowing the opportunities on the Croatian market, we can certainly figure out how many families, how many parents are willing or how much they can pay for the protection of their child. If we create more favourable conditions for these nannies as craftsmen then we put them in more unfavourable terms and in the discriminatory position of all other craftsmen who operate on our market. The first basic problem that arises here is that for the registration of her nanny activity, among other things, the solution to the use or possession of a business space must also be attached. Unfortunately, we know from the practice that very few women are owners of business spaces or family homes or apartments, that in most cases they are men and now there is a question of whether the woman who is the nanny will have to make a contract with her husband to use that living space. Namely, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction decidedly states that a change of residence in business space must be made. Last year or so, we had at least a lot of problems with the owners, so all the women who were owners of the craftsman or renters of tourist accommodation facilities, and the husbands owned the property had to be made by other craftsmen. So this is one burning problem that we should think about when we say that we would like to simplify the situation, and it is good to simplify it, however, not to the harm of other craftsmen, because they are all fighting for the same in this free Croatian market. Another problem that arises with craftsmanship in relation to other craftsmen, and when we talk about nannies, then this is, if the nanny performs activity in her apartment in her house at which price will she pay el.struction, water, communals? All craftsmen performing this in other activities shall pay a higher price. Then why don't you pay for it and the nanny? Because all the time we've been saying that we need the babysitters, but we're also talking about how much we need all those other activities, so here's what we were talking about about somewhere a new year ago, let's say how important furry or goldsmiths are to us. So why would the nanny be in a privileged position? And I think it's dangerous to take care of it when it comes to second reading of the law, because otherwise a lot of existing craftsmen might have a grudge for a reason. As regards subsidisation, the bill says that units of local and regional self-government are obliged to subsidise the activities of the nanny at the time at which they do not have organised child care in their field of pre-school age. We're witnessing strange situations in practice. We have a unit of local self-government that does not have its own kindergarten but therefore provides childcare services in a neighboring local unit where her children do not have the right to the championship on enrolment. Does this mean if five or ten children remain unlisted that this unit of local self-government has no organised child care or simply has come into the situation of having extra children. So when we write and read this law every word carries its weight and every word if implemented in practice can bring great doubt, and then a lot of questions. As regards transitional and final provisions in Article 44(3), it states that "the persons who carried out the work of the nanny in the context of the registered activity before the entry into force of this law in another way are obliged to coordinate their activities with the provisions of this law no later than 31.12.2013". I wonder which activities, or what registered activities, could they have done so far as part of the nanny's activities? They said it wasn't there, so I think maybe you should pay attention to that, because then we turn out to be inconclusive in what we're saying and contradictory in what the bill says. How will the nanny’s parenting activity be supervised? As much as any inspector as any surveillance officer has the right to enter a parenting home to conduct any quality surveillance of the nanny. I agree that this is a business relationship between parents and the nanny, but if we really want to put it on one level and if we want to no longer have that gray economy that we have here, this is another question that's opening up to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27498	Thank you. We have two signed-up replicas, first picked up by Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27499	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a distinguished representative actually mentioned a few moments that I would like to advise the promoters to change. First of all, it's certainly a business issue. Trading companies in this activity seem to me to be a big, big failure because it would certainly be in our practice in unfair competition of kindergartens, without any criteria, because in the end it would turn out that someone would call family care without standards, without atmosphere, and ultimately without everything kindergartens require at this time, and it is highly educated aunts, psychologists, nurse, kitchen, etc. In fact, it would come down to some abortional form of kindergarten, especially stressing that at the end of this year, a new pedagogical standard that sets even greater requirements ahead of kindergartens, and here we would have a situation that perhaps in 2.3 rooms we have several nannies who will have groups and take care of them safely at a lower level than those kindergartens should have. Another aspect that has been mentioned, which seems particularly important to me, is that if he has a child with developmental difficulties then to reduce by just one group. I think it's completely unrealistic because such children require special constant care, attention, etc. and it is not realistic that the nanny will be able to take care of four other children with such a child, especially if the more serious damage is possible. It seems to me that there is more than that, and it would be very important to educate such nannies because I don't think that any nanny with the average education she is supposed to care for would care for such children, and that should pay close attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27500	Thank you. Miss twilight's next replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Tyrelli, I listened very carefully to your presentations, and I appeared in a replica relating to the title, which is exactly the name of this law because the nanny somehow implicates the person who guards the child, so let's say until school, age to school, and at some point later on, it was the governess. After that, it got lost, so it's the aunts they're looking after. So I personally think that you would, and I don't know what you think, that maybe this law could be called something different because the nanny is confusing. In this case, up to 14 years old when a child says I have a nanny, it doesn't sound very convenient amongst the society in which these teenagers are moving. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27502	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27503	Yes, I agree with you, Comrade twilight, that's why I first warned those two things. I didn't mention it until I was 14 because I know that some others will probably talk about it exactly the way they discussed it on the boards. I've focused on this part, and the following is the problem, so we're passing a law of interest, we're not passing a law of activity, and I think we should seriously think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27504	Thank you. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27505	Thank you. I think you've made a whole series of interesting remarks, but I also think the fact is what the minister said, it's that today it's a more or less area that's outside of any surveillance and more or less of a gray economy. So any attempt to put this grey economy under control can only be carried out by some kind of regime that will be acceptable to everyone or to the good part of those who are engaged in this activity today. And I think it really should be complicated, on the other hand, that it would be really bad if it were formalized and institutionalized to start turning into some form of entrepreneurship or replacement kindergartens. Therefore, this form should be such that it really remains about the way that it is done today in the Republic of Croatia only by not paying taxes nor by any means of supervision, so that these people who do so today are somehow recognised institutionalised, channeled and paying some tax for this activity. And when you were talking about those conditions that all the other craftsmen on the market have, which is true, but that's our deviation, so our social deviation that someone who has a hair salon has some kind of quiet twist or guards the kids are paying for industrial electricity, industrial water or industrial gas. And if we start and if these nannies in their activities won't pay for it, maybe it'll be some step that will drive these others to rebel and ask them for their quiet activities that are not in any way industrial, that the local administration or state that makes it impossible for them to pay for, for example, water, electricity and gas, not as industrial, but as the citizens pay for it. Indeed, it is pointless for industrial water prices to be paid in such activities, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27506	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Tyrelli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27507	Dear colleague, I would be the most pleased woman in the world if we could forgive the nanny to pay more expensive electricity, water, gas and everything else, and make it a start for all the other craftsmen to pay just as much as we would allow the nanny. Unfortunately, with experience in our country, I don't think we'll be expecting that either of you or me. We in this assembly have abolished, say, a chamber contribution to the agricultural chamber, but we've still released all the other chambers. Thus, this one law certainly does not mean with us and the rule, especially if at that time the law is at the expense of the state budget, not in favour of the craftsman or anyone else. As for this part where you said that this gray economy and this practice that is on our market should be placed in legal frameworks, I fully agree with you. It is precisely in such thinking and in the wake of such thinking and I support the adoption of such a law, of course with all the hints and all these well-intentioned suggestions that the non-compliance with these current legislations that stand in this proposal and if we let them in practice may cause certain problems and I believe that here, and the minister herself has expressed the will and desire to listen to us on this first reading and hear that everything that is not right for the common good could be implemented in the law until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27508	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club Biljana Borzana. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today, so the law that governs a segment that has been completely unregulated and unregulated for many years. This law can say salvation for women who are currently working as nannies, for women who may or may not want to become, saving parents and saving a part of the unemployed. Citizens often complain that our country is under-arranged, that too many individuals find holes in laws. Since the start of the mandate, order has been introduced in many segments, from paying taxes, legalising illegal construction to working on black. Some of the mean comments were so what's the problem with the babysitters? It's not God knows what, what you've just taken on the agenda. But whoever thinks that is completely wrong because when we just take into account the fact that, according to estimates in Croatia, around 15000 nannies are working and mostly working on black, then it is clear how much of this problem is. So, considering that this problem involves children and their parents are very many people involved. Unfortunately, in Croatia today they did not work with their own will on black, because they simply had no other options. So it wasn't their choice, it was simply the result of an unsettled situation. This law concerns parents living in environments that unfortunately do not have enough capacity in mangers and kindergartens. It also concerns those parents who have such a working time that they simply cannot fit into the work hours of the manger and kindergarten. We can also say that this law regulates a very sensitive area, for if the nanny performs her activities in the parent’s home, she actually becomes almost a member of the family and it is extremely important that the child and parents accept her as she does. Most people in the first year of their child’s life remember as a very stressful period and a good nanny certainly can make that period much, much more pleasant, can help. According to one study, as many as 67% of mothers said they should have left their jobs, had failed to arrange quickly for some grandmother’s service, help from parents, friends, relatives, or neighbors. This information says a lot to itself how much the need for a good organisation outside the institutions is, in fact. So outside the manger and kindergarten because simply the capacity isn't enough. I personally believe that after the age of 3 of the child’s life, it is always desirable when it is possible to allow the child to go to kindergarten, because the nanny simply cannot replace the kindergarten. That's what the minister said in her opening address. So mixing a nanny's job with a kindergarten job is totally inappropriate. The nanny status so far has actually been humiliating, because if you work in the labour market completely unprotected then it's humiliating. As far as the nanny is concerned, here's what the predecessors have already talked about. So, there was a typical Croatian absurd that women, I say, women, although I would like it to be sometimes that men have completed nanny education, and after that, they were able to put their certificate or conviction of completed education on the wall and admire it. Those crafts couldn't open, and then there were those cases like Delnice where they caught me saying women working on black and there was a whole scandal. Thus, such situations will now finally be able to be avoided. There were also some comments that the state had come for itself. That's not appropriate. The fact is that the state will benefit from this law because every country benefits from being, having all segments arranged and this law will in any case help Croatia to be one step closer to the concept of a regulated state. Also, what is important to stress by this law is encouraged and I will say female entrepreneurship because it is mostly a job that so far concerned women. Women are in crisis, otherwise in Croatia women are, unfortunately, much of that number of unemployed people, and in the crisis, these percentages often move more negatively for women. So, this law is certain that there will be an opportunity for this ratio to be improved a little bit and for all that I have said full support for what the ministry has given us to debate this law, and I believe that from the second reading of a certain improvement, and in that sense, the SDP club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27510	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first one came forward by Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Borzan, of course we agree that the labour market needs to be regulated. So, if it is these 132 women who have completed their courses, they should be given the opportunity to organize or register in some way. But what I'd like to say to you so sincerely among us here, and certainly among the public, you've mentioned 15000 babysitters who are in big trouble because they're working on black. I personally don't think they're in any kind of trouble, but it's the state's problem with that work on black because of course they don't pay taxes. They personally don't have that problem, because they usually work in 15000 or I don't know fewer families who hire them and these families don't pay taxes on it, and neither do they. So, the point is just to be honest, let's just be honest that in one of the things that we say hello is really to make one such law, but the point is that the tax is also paid on it, so those 15000 babysitters you mentioned, of course they'll have to pay taxes, which is the problem of the state because it wasn't working. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27512	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, please. You can have a colleague Borzan's hand, too, I've seen it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27513	So, first of all, the women and children they're guarding are women and children. So the babysitters. The state is interested in putting this under control not for money, because this money is not money that will save Croatia from the crisis, but simply because of how parents would have an orderly system that I could enter into to say so. So, to know which nanny is on the market, choose the one that's the best. Nannys will therefore be relieved, because they will know that they are protected, that they work as any other honorary worker in Croatia and children who will be protected and secure throughout this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27514	Thank you. And the next replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27515	Dear Mr. Vice President, I would like to refer to what the esteemed representative said and what is, in fact, frightening one information and it's true from about a year and a half ago that 55% of women stopped working, women who had children younger than 8 years old so they could be with their children and that's true and of course it's very well justified and passed this law. But here's when we talk about it, maybe a couple of additional suggestions to the proposings again and something that could be improved, one question, of course, is this co-financing from the budget of local administration and self-government. First, it's completely unrealistic if we pass this law and we expect it to be in a few months in the second reading, that anything is funded this year because it's the same as the state budget, the units have made their own budgets, they usually have very modest budgets, and they've already distributed these modest budgets so they have too little money behind them, so it's not realistic that anything this year will happen on that plan and that it will be able to co-finance it. Another issue is the issue of criteria, the issue of criteria in which in some areas that do not have, of course, organised care from preschool children is expected to be co-financed. However, it is not simple enough to say so because there are such institutions somewhere but there is not enough capacity, so it is not all that there are no such institutions at all, but it is a question and the capacity of these institutions, so I think it would be good to bring it into this law as well. One of the things that would be very important seems to me and it's longer deadlines. Longer deadlines for the nanny to get a trade, she must have completed her education, we have a small number now, we expect them to be a much larger number, she has to pay that education, then she has to stop anything she does, in fact half a year devoted to that education, so it seems to me that it would be very necessary to extend that deadline to really achieve the quality that this law deserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27516	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Comrade Borzan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27517	I'm not sure we understood each other, but I was talking about a study in which mothers said they failed to organize the custody of grandmothers, friends, and relatives so that they would have to come back, that they would have to quit. But mostly people get along but that's not the point, the goal is to try to have as much orderly a system as possible, and I'm stressing again, not as a substitute for kindergarten, because I may not have mentioned one convenient and important thing as possible, and that is to say that the child who went to kindergarten gets far less sick when he goes to school because he passed that period of immunization, so surely that the benefits of kindergarten are incomparable, but this law is welcome because he's going to edit that law that already exists, so the nannies exist, and they're not there because parents just fall out of some coma but because they simply can't otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27518	Thank you. On behalf of HDZ representative Branko Juricev Martinchev's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27519	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal of the Nanny Act is a law that the HDZ Representatives Club will support. Namely for this law, all research and preparation has been carried out by HDZ and has been in the plan for adoption since 2012 regardless of the existence of legal arrangements in the Republic of Croatia, certain measures have been taken, as we have already heard in 2010 and 2011 regarding the training of persons. As the growing crisis and the growing number of unemployed are even more intense, we need to think about how to support families, especially those parents in modern times, where both parents are employed. Services for children are a key element in harmonising professional and family life. At the same time, this law provides new self-employment and prevents the gray economy. These services are deficited in the Republic of Croatia and represent an upgrade of the existing system and so far, childcare can only be done through pre-school institutions. However, there is a great lack of space in pre-school institutions and there is an additional need for the development of nanny activities as an outside-institutional form of child care. This law will therefore mean a great deal to those environments where child care for preschool children was not organized. So, for example. In the area of my town, the town of Vodice has one city and one private kindergarten, and last year we opened another in the village of Zalej. However, on the island of Prvic we have no kindergartens, and this year in Šepurin we have six kindergarten children and we have a person who is professional enough and interested in them. Six children are a fortune on the islands, all those who know that even bigger settlements than ours have one or no children. So far, we in the city have found ways to help and contribute to their education, which is more enjoyable in life and growth. That gave their parents another reason not to leave the island. However, this law alone will allow us to have our concerns regulated legally, to define our relations precisely, and we all know our rights and obligations. In the case of care and care for children in islands and small rural areas, if we want these settlements to not disappear, we need to provide even more support. This law is not the kind of aid the state needs to provide. The state adopts strategies on the development of such environments, laws, swears that our islands and our village need and special state care and then all of this just shifts to a local self-government that, day by day and every subsequent law, has growing commitments and less resources. I therefore propose that if the Minister really wants to take care of children on the island and in the villages, not just declare that the elections and the funds in the state budget are being made available for them. This law also provides for care for children up to 14 years of age, especially in those environments where we do not have an extended stay in schools. Care and care for children because of major problems, and institutional inability led to the so-called social life of the so-called “incompetence. ” child-preservation without the nanny’s activity being arranged and registered, profits were made by providing these services in the grey economy zone by avoiding payment of obligations to the State. What is the worst society has faced with the problem of unprotected children as well as parents. The interests of a child according to the Charter of the United Nations, European Conventions, the Constitution, the Family Law, and the laws which, in a broader sense, take care of children's rights are primary rights and real value. Accordingly, it is up to the legislator to perfect the acts until such time as to guarantee the safety of children at the highest level. It is commendable that children who are not in institutions will now be given the necessary care, as parents work, and that they will be treated by persons with certain criteria and trained for such work. However, there are some segments in this law to be completed. I'll just be taxing because every one of them can talk a lot. As regards the training of the activities and jobs of the nanny, the exact minimum age of children, such as in the Preschool Law, should be determined. Children from 6 months of age can only be institutionalized because until then the mother is on maternity leave. Furthermore, in kindergartens there are criteria for not mixing children from year to year, and e.g. 7, and according to this law in the same group can be a child of a few months and that of 12 or 13 years, there should be a range, the age of children within the group, because we know that children up to 3 years have a completely different interest and different needs from those of the schoolboys. Furthermore, the law says that a nanny can leave the post in situations of urgency and trust children to be protected by a law - described person and that children can be entrusted to the care of any business capable person, and that attitude should be reconsidered so as not to endanger the safety of children. For the same reason, it should be impossible to carry out the nanny's duties from the very beginning of the prosecution. When it comes to education in Article 23, it should be understood that the nanny should be trained professionally, and not that it should be the choice they want, it must be an obligation because of course it is only in the interests of children. In criminal provisions, you have missed the possibility of punishing those who do not comply with the prescribed way in which the nanny works, all of what you have described in Articles 15, 16, 17, is of no use unless you have a way to sanction those who do not. Also with criminal provisions for those who do not have contracts with parents of guardians, which requires Article 20. As in other laws, a warning should be prescribed for offenders made for the first time, as well as the amount and manner of punishment on the spot, with the proposal that this law is still being completed The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the Law on Nannys, because it is an upgrade of the existing system of childcare and will be a great help to families with children. This law is a step forward in raising children, unlike health care, which is certainly a step back and which has taken away our parents from us both religious and educational freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27520	Thank you. We've reported several replicas. The first one came to Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27521	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would only rely on the fact that a colleague said that so far childcare could only take place in preschool institutions, it is completely incorrect because in preschool institutions in Croatia children have never been looked after, children have been raised, raised by highly educated educators and educators. And my second comment is on the chronological mixing of children, the chronological mixing of children, as my colleague called it a true pedagogical wealth, and in some of the pedagogues that have successfully revived in Croatia, it is even a rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27522	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here are my colleagues, Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27523	Well, I wouldn't exactly agree, since we know that these nannies will be much worse educated than those aunts who work in kindergarten and, and far more difficult to have working conditions if they have a child in a group of 12 or 13-year-olds who need to do homework.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27524	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27525	Mr. Vice President, so here I was encouraged by a distinguished representative mentioning the role of local administration and self-government again. In fact, there is one problem, since a solution on minimum technical conditions is foreseen to provide public administration offices in the county, they will later not actually have any insight because the supervision is not carried out by them, but by family centres and there is one zip that could cause problems, so even though local self-government is the founder of inspection supervision there is a state, and there should somehow reconcile this problem so as not to have some consideration. The second is the same thing in Article 11 where it is said that the nanny’s activity cannot be carried out in the living room if the relations of members of the household are impaired. Now, the family center should define how the family center can determine that. In the light of the consistency or interference of relations, he has no insight into it based on the knowledge of official duty or on the basis of the fielding and fact-finding, this should be defined, as family centres are of advisory character and have no insight into family relations unless someone from the family contactes them. So if he hasn't spoken to them, they won't have any insight. And that might be perfect. And the same important thing is that Article 36 does not define whether professional supervision will be of great importance and will be of great importance whether it will be carried out on a one-time basis or will be implemented systematically, how often it will be carried out and by what criteria. So I suggest that the same proposer include it inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27526	The answer to this replica is respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27527	You are a respected colleague, namely the legislator, who has failed any criminal provisions under Articles 15, 16 and 17. Which speaks of how to carry out the activities and tasks of the nanny. So not only do you not know who's gonna be in charge of this, but they're not even in criminal terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27528	The next replica of the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27529	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Yurichev, you spoke nicely in your presentation and of course we all support the passing of such a law. But you were talking about age groups that could be mixed up inside some space where the nanny would look after the kids. I would just like to point out that there is an open space here for children with developmental difficulties, and I also think that it would be good to subsidize in this law in a way that would be absolutely specialised in protecting such children with developmental difficulties because there is indeed a great need in families that have such children, and they do not want to give them out of their really great love to some big centres, but they want to be there, to be with them, but because they work to protect them. So here's maybe if you think about it a little bit in a way to subsidize just like that specialized let's just call them babysitters now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27530	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleagues, you mentioned the security of funds in the state budget for the implementation of this law. It is truly amazing that all these laws that come to the agenda mention local self-government and its obligations. So we had a first reading of the Preschool Law which implies what our obligation is to simply include all preschool children. I'm reading the Law on Mining Article 7 shows that we need to do geological studies, so again the cost of local self-government. Yesterday on the Committee on Local Self-Government Assistant Minister of Justice about the Law amending the Law on Land Books again at the expense of local self-government updating land books. Article 37 shows that units of local regional self-government are obliged to subsidise their activities. I think it would be fair and correct to say we could or don't know some different way to formulate it, not to say the implications that we have to do it. Where'd you get the money? I don't know if you're aware of the state of local self-government and our budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27532	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27533	Thank you very much. A true colleague of mine who is at the local self-government at the head of local self-government knows best what happens every day. Last time in her current class, I asked the minister what was going on in her vault. Among other things, she boasted about the assistants in the class, and we know well that cities and municipalities have to finance the assistants in the class. So it's easy to pass the law here to raise your hand, and then let someone else finance it and conduct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27534	We will now hear the position of the HNS club and distinguished representative Nada Turin Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club welcomes the initiative to pass such a law among other things because we believe that a legal basis should be created for a transparent and legally secure system in the area outside of institutional child care. We are aware of the fact that institutional care in the Republic of Croatia for our children or foreschools was not fully met by public or private needs and demand for childcare services, and in some areas this level of service is very good, and in some areas it is very good, but there are also a whole series of environments where this care is not systematic and is not at the level that children who live in the 21st century in Europe in the Republic of Croatia deserve. Unfortunately, the most common institutional concern cannot meet all the specific or specific needs that parents have above all, and then, of course, the work that needs to be taken care of at that time, and they are most often related to the working hours of their parents or to the obligations of their parents in some later afternoon or even evening hours when such a service would mean that the nanny service may in particular be expressed or in other specific situations where child care is needed. So the intensity is good. The intensity of this law to enable the legitimate activity of something that we already have in reality but which so far could not be seen or controlled. This law should put all of this under control, or assume that this labour market is or should be controlled. The positive side of the law is also the possibility of self-employment. It is not negligible since the assumption of statistics is ours, HZZ data show that the largest number of women, or women of the population in the Republic of Croatia, is unemployed at some age between 45 and 55 and these are the most difficult persons employed on the labour market. The assumption is that one part of course not all women may find space, the possibility of self-employment through this activity, or through the possibilities provided by this law. Of course, some of the women who could be on that labour market have been able to cope in a variety of ways so far and have been in one part and in this system, so they have taken care of children in an illegal way. This law should allow this situation to change, means that women enter the system and that, in addition to legally receiving salaries for their work, they also carry out obligations towards the state, and also to themselves by providing health insurance and pension insurance, which is certainly not negligible. Since this is about first reading on behalf of the HNS Club, we would also like to draw attention to a few things that could be polished or sanded or repaired, advanced until the next reading, or some of the principles that we have in mind on the proposal of this law. We believe that at no time could there be an institutional concern in this law, namely that there should be no doubt that anywhere in this law is equal to an institutional concern, that is, children's kindergartens about children with so-called children. Baby-sitting because it's basically baby-sitting. It's just what the waist tells us. It's what the waist imposes. We in the institutional system have educated breeders, professional associates, we have standards that are set in both educational and spatial terms, meaning some minimum technical conditions in which this activity is carried out. We also have obligations of local self-government towards these institutions. These are all very important reasons why this law should not allow the pursuit or possibility of equating institutional institutions and nannies, or babysitting. It would not be good if this law in any way opened up the possibility that a new law would happen under quotes children's kindergartens or surrogates of kindergartens, but of course much worse quality with women nannies who would then work in that case for 24 hours or who knows how to probably pay very small wages, and all of this to be covered by the legality of the bill. We're just warning, so in some places in this law, this potential threat opens up. We believe that this should be prevented from focusing exclusively on self-employment in this law, self-employment means keeping children in their own home or possibly a contract on the work when it comes to carrying out this activity in the home of parents. We believe that this story should be strictly differentiated. Maybe there's a better suggestion, we're in the first reading, I'm allowing one of our colleagues, perhaps only the Ministry could work on a proposal that will completely distinguish this story. In addition, another detail in which we believe that we may have drawn too close to the institutional and non-institutional form of childcare, which is precisely this part of co-financing. We have to ask ourselves if the proposals that go in the direction that all units of local self-government should co-finance, not subsidize the babysitters, are we actually opening up the possibility of creating what I said earlier, meaning some alleged kindergartens, new kindergartens by the nanny model, that we're actually creating a situation where there's room for manipulation, especially when it comes to trading societies. Unfortunately, we have a rather difficult economic situation, and I suppose by proposing this law, if it remains as it is, there may be a situation where some of our entrepreneurs will think that one part of their warehouse that until yesterday was a warehouse, I don't know some goods that are not needed now because it has fallen into a place where they are going to do these services, that some of their employees are requalified as nannies and that in this way they actually abuse this law. I think we need to be very, very careful here because I don't think that we all should be together in the end for the purpose of maximising one of these networks. We consider this network in HNS, or this law, what I said at the beginning of the desire to introduce order into one service, into one additional activity. I would dare even say an occasional and temporary service that can have its very good positive effects that we absolutely agree with. They are also in the light of the law, but cannot become a substitute for institutional care and childcare. We believe that until the next reading, all the possibilities that raise these questions should be excluded through the proposal of this law. Otherwise, I also wanted to point out that just this morning I was called by a gentleman who spent four years working on permits to build a private kindergarten and who managed to build a kindergarten according to new standards and who plans to hire 10 breeders, nurse, cook and everything that goes according to standards. And he told me if when I opened a kindergarten like this, and you brought this kind of law on the market, I'd find people who needed my kindergarten services. I think we need to keep that in mind when we pass this law and prevent any manipulation from happening here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27536	Thank you, too. The positions of the HSU Club will be presented by a respected representative of Višnja Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27537	Dear Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Nannys, and we are aware of the growing need to organise and encourage outside of institutional care, the form of childcare, and the proposal for a Law on Nannys, which I repeat here on our desk is a positive shift in achieving the same. This law certainly needs to help align work and family, a fundamental issue of every family and social policy. Care for children is one of the priority areas of family policy, and the introduction of measures outside the institution of childcare and younger preschool children was an integral part of an even national family policy that was adopted in 2003, which meant at that time one of the support of the family, greater safety of parents, as well as a greater quality of services at that time. Since then, it has been working intensively to strengthen these services. The various programmes and projects were supported, and some measures were taken to help the family. Therefore, the proposed law is a logical sequence and a necessary need to regulate the area, and to provide professional and quality services to the nanny in the activities of the nanny, and to enable the nanny to operate in accordance with the law. Such a legal framework with clear guidelines and powers regulates all relevant areas for the exercise of this activity and is also relevant for most European countries. The law also provides support to employees' parents especially in environments where there is a lack of room in preschool institutions or where there are no adequate preschool institutions at all. For parents, this means harmonising professional and personal life, and the possibility of choices that are very important. It is important to further point out that the law will take measures to combat the grey economy, and I would especially like to highlight the supervision of the activities that will lead to the protection of children and parents, or the whole family. Also, the prerequisite for stronger inclusion of women in the labour market is precisely the reason for these services and child care services. The higher employment of women has a direct impact on the increase and natural growth of the population and thus on one stability and pension system in the long term. Since this is about the first reading that I am very pleased to make here some of the suggestions that this law would be as our minister said at first be even better, more quality than this proposal we have on the table. Therefore, I would like to point out that the conditions for carrying out the activity under which the activity can be carried out through the company, craftsmen, craftsmen and cooperatives are regulated here. Here I hope that we will get clear criteria in which and how it would be because there can really happen in the implementation of a lot, a lot of things we wouldn't want and a lot of things that can just happen, and at this point maybe we don't expect it to happen. So I'd like to ask the competent ministry to really pay more attention and pay more attention to the second reading to these particular segments. Of course, we are all aware here of the fact that the best and best quality service of this activity could be provided, that it is provided as it has been in the parent’s home or in the foster home so far. But since it's an activity that we need to expand, it's too small to include only the foster home or the parent's home. So I repeat, we expect here sublegal acts that would point this to clear, clear criteria. Furthermore, Article 15 of this Act states, among other things, that in carrying out the conservation and care activities, the number of children may be a maximum of 6. I would particularly refer here to children with developmental difficulties where I would pay particular attention to the criteria of the number of children not good, so if there is one child with developmental difficulties then the number of children by one is reduced, that's five. The basic criterion should be to damage the child or the disturbance that this child has with developmental difficulties. This may further mean that the number of children would be only one depending on the damage or damage to the child with developmental difficulties. Well, in this area, I think that a different education would be necessary for these nannies, certainly a different additional education that would be exclusively for those children first because you know that in preschool institutions I don't expect them to be and I don't chase a preschool institution with this nanny area at all. It's not the same, and it's not going to be able to get in at all. But we have both assistants and all together, it won't be here I hope it's necessary, but it's going to take another article 15, so I suggest you reconsider well. Furthermore, the law provides for the issue of a solution and the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out activities. This solution is issued by the administrative body of the city or county. This is not seen which body is exactly, or I suppose, the same as the minimum technical conditions we now issue for welfare institutions, the family centres, but then I would point out that now that we are issuing solutions behind this later we no longer have any insight into that solution that we have issued and what is further the situation over that institution or here over this activity. So that's where you'd like to ask for another look and examine, that possibility. I would also point out here that it would be very good if there was one for now that cooperation is good but better coordination between bodies, so the bodies of local administrations and family centres that will be the bearers which I am also very pleased because I think that family centres are just as determined and best for the right area of this activity. At this point, we're only missing two family centers, and I think that part will be very simple and easy to bridge what was said yesterday and on the board. So those closest to the centers will now be conducted and two new family centres will be established. Family centres will also have professional supervision as professional supervision is often carried out, expert supervision is performed systematically and continuously coordinated. We can't have supervision that's being performed once a year, but it's constant and continuous, and inspection supervision is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Family and Youth, so it's something that's safe to do well and welcome. Also related to budgets and budgets and units of local and regional self-government apply only to those areas that do not have organised pre-school kindergartens or where there are many children who have not yet been able to find a place and accommodation there. I know that last year there went a memo and e-mails, etc., where they were just related to this bill and warned that the law would be passed and if there is a possibility that funds could be provided already this year. I'm afraid it's a small amount of money that could be provided because of the financial situation, so I think you'll have to see how this year will be bridged and for next year we certainly support that the co-financing of the nanny is also needed at the level of local administration. Furthermore, I consider it extremely important for this area to be compulsory professional training, the training which is regulated by Article 22 of this proposal, which is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure by the Minister responsible for Science and Education, with the previous opinion of the Minister of Health, and I will once again mention the special education for the nanny who will work and who will have children with disabilities in the group, I reiterate this. In addition to making proposals, questions and comments on the proposal of the Nanny Act, I point out that HSU supports this bill, expects its full application, including the local community, and all with the aim of providing as many services as possible outside of institutional care, child protection, promotion of employment and female entrepreneurship, and strengthening measures of family and social policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27538	Thank you. We continue the debate by clubs, and on behalf of the HDSSB Club, the distinguished representative Josip Salapic will speak. Here you go. I'm sorry to warn you that at 1717, it's time to apply for an individual debate for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27540	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am, however, as my first colleague to talk about this topic in front of the HDSSB Club, to make my contribution and contribution to this topic that I find very important, given that about 10,000 children in Croatia today are preschool children who are not registered anywhere in the mangers and kindergartens. It is evident, therefore, that this activity is being carried out regardless of the fact that so far in Croatia the law is not regulated and that we contribute gender equality. This isn't just a law that applies to women, this is a law that applies to men because it's better to be a male nanny than to be an unemployed person. In any case, the possibility of employment is opened for both men and women and this is a positive shift because we will become a member of the EU and we need to take care of all segments of society and thus contribute to the education of children who are our constitutional value can be given equally by men and women. We certainly support the adoption of this law because we consider it primarily necessary to regulate it, because here are 15 thousand persons in Croatia who are mostly women in this business, but it is not regulated. Not only do they lose persons who work, because they are not registered as employees, but they lose the state on contributions and lose the entire society as a whole. Our constitutional value is therefore the protection of families, children and youth, and we, as well as the Croatian Parliament and the Government, should contribute to the regulation of this activity within the legal frameworks. If we are looking at the practice of European countries, it is differently arranged, this legislative proposal is similar to French because there is a model that has partly been financed by local self-government and partly parents, which would not be bad in the future to think that although we suspect that this year there will be funds in local budgets that, for the next budget, when we will be a member of the European Union, we will simply provide funds because if there is no room in institutional frameworks, we need to find financial resources to help parents because they really do sometimes, and also often work for small wages, so from these small salaries, we cannot, for example, separate from a town of thousands to 3,000 kuna, and sometimes more to protect children, so having therefore in mind and this European practice, so this is a similar model like in France, and we just need to look at what our European neighbours are doing, simply adapting in Croatia as well as possible. There are systems that, for example, are in Sweden, which are our own so far, which is that there are only institutional forms of babysitting and childcare, and it's all based on mangers and kindergartens, while in the United Kingdom we have, for example, there is no single law, there is no prescribed professional arrangement for the babysitters, but there are minimum conditions prescribed, and we can say that it is a single form of crafts or independent activities where this national agency is not enrolled, where part of the salaries are paid, and some of them pay for the contributions of the state. So there is therefore this first reading of the law is a different modality where we simply need to see what is possible in the Republic of Croatia at this time. What might be a little critical for us in this bill of law, we think that it would be better for the Deputy Prime Minister to get out of this proposal of the law of the company and of the cooperative, and leave only this form of trade and self-employment, because there can indeed be some extension of powers under this law that simply loses the sense of the nanny itself, the sense of babysitting, because opening a company or form of a cooperative can lead to a violation of the basic objective of this law and that is to enable legal employment of the babysitters. So it is possible for a company to have one house, one housing unit with four, five rooms, to adapt it to the conditions that will be prescribed by the regulation and simply to avoid the basic meaning of this law by hiring persons who meet the professional conditions for nannies, and to make a profit, to have the nanny employed with small wages, and to simply reach people who meet the conditions but with such a way of organising a company loses the meaning of the law. So we are more committed to keeping it in the sphere of crafts and self-employment which will make a contribution first of all to the persons who have met the professional conditions, you have said that these are 132 persons, it is good to be as many as possible, it may have been absurd that there have been professional courses where the Ministry of Science, education has given consent, that these persons, after the completion of that course that is entered into the workbook, cannot therefore be registered and that is even tried, have no sense of conducting education in cities in cooperation with employment institutions and that those persons after that, those certificates and the enrolmentment in the workbook simply cannot do anything with it, that they are together on the market, so far there has been a gray market, so far where the persons who have professional conditions are equal with those who have no. We therefore consider it necessary that this is properly regulated in the second reading, and that it enables persons under these conditions prescribed by the law to thus be trained professionally and, with new education and new education, to obtain the possibility of employment in this form, as provided for by the law. I agree with my colleague, Fortun, that Article 15 needs to be reviewed, is not the same child with developmental difficulties, in development, there are different forms and different forms of disease, so it is necessary to assess what difficulties these are, how many nannies, here it is overlooked that for each such child, it should therefore be assessed in this article to add that the degree of child damage is assessed, and that indeed, because it is one child, two or three, that this child is adequately guarded and supervised. As far as the other parts of the law are concerned, the issue of supervision is well resolved that it is the competent inspections of the ministries, and the family centres, we believe that this law gives a new step in the Republic of Croatia, one new light in this activity that is particularly important, there is no concern of mixing institutionally with extra-institutional, therefore the form of childcare and child rearing is a completely different category, this law, this law clearly regulates and does not enter the area concerning the Pre-school Law. The HDSSB Club therefore supports the first reading of this law, and we hope that you will accept this proposal for companies. And something else I forgot, this transitional period should really be up to two years, because this is too little until 31.12.2013. maybe it would be good to have it done by the end of 2014 so that these new conditions could be adapted to everyone who wants to deal with this job, and to leave enough time for those who are already doing so so that they can professionally perfect themselves and meet all the conditions foreseen by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27541	I thank you, too. We have a single replica reported to this exhibit, a respected colleague of Nancy Tyrelli's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27542	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Salapic, I'm particularly glad that you've made your contribution to gender awareness regarding the proposal of the Nanny Act, but I think it's, that we're carrying out our birth awareness on a partial basis and that we're not spending it exactly where we're supposed to spend it. In reading the assessment of the situation related to the proposal of this law, it says that the selection of all the participants of the training programme through projects was carried out by the Croatian Employment Institute on the basis of the psychological-medical processing of candidates. So that's where I know we used IPA 4 pre-accession funds, and I know that it was a grant in that part of the woman on the labour market, but we also had other components where the male population at the Croatian Employment Service was included, so here's a good opportunity to maybe point out when we are doing such projects that we still take care of this gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27543	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27544	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Tyrelli, that's exactly what I said in my debate, that's what matters. We are in one crucial time for Croatia and when reading this law but also some other laws we see that it is not always the same for men and women. This is a specific profession, and it's good that this is how it's solved. This is one solid legal basis for a better arrangement that we will bring in another reading but stop men saying only about women is primarily about the possibility of employment, the possibility of perhaps sometimes in our family law a mother is employed, and a father keeps children at home and experiences are gained. Today-to-morrow you never know one of them can become a nanny, so even with us here in the Parliament maybe today-to-morrow we don't wake up representatives we can be babysitters. It's no shame, it's a shame to be unemployed, it's a shame not to do anything, it's a shame not to learn anything and know nothing. And above all, my contribution to this and our club is that all persons in Croatia need to be aware of the moment we live and where we can give our contribution we should all give together and this is one law where all the club representatives, all parties should think together for the better tomorrow and there is no room for political bickering but for a quality and professional solution that will help all mothers and fathers and future parents. This is an important and crucial issue for me at this time for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27545	Thank you, too. The word has now come from prominent Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, Milanka Opacic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27546	First of all, I have to start with what you've just finished, Mr. Salapic, and I really don't have any female law, so it's not just for women. I'm hoping that one part of the men will report for this job. Here with me is Mrs. Jasna Curkovic Kelava, who has led Nazorova for years, and I know that worse from her stories, children were much more bound to male volunteers than women, so there are really no obstacles for men to this activity and there is no saying that this law was written only for women, although most of them of course ended this education but, of course, it doesn't mean much at this point. I would like to say when it comes to the financing of local self-government that this law has not yet committed the obligation of the local self-government unit, we have only referred to the existing powers and powers of local self-government, which is that they take care of pre-school children. Many local self-government units have not allocated funds at this time, some are initial funds because they don't even know how much women will be interested in this law in their cities at all and have all the conditions to be able to deal with the nanny's business, so this year is an adjustment for both local self-government units and women who will go into the gathering of all the terms of the nanny's job. I think in time, however, many units of local self-government will single out as much money as they can. Of course, we are all aware that both the state budget and the local self-government units have very little money at their disposal, but here some have already allocated at least minimal resources to start this project with their support living in some local self-government units. As for the possibility of overlapping this preschool section and the baby-sitter jobs that are only child-saving, I think we've made a pretty good distinction here except for this part of which you warned the company that we're going to talk about in the second reading. Namely, you should know that the person who finished the Pedagogical Academy may be a nanny but not the other way around. So a woman who's just finished her class can't work in kindergartens. So much I think we've set a very clear limit and here we've gotten in some way and the cooperation of all those who helped us from this preschool section in writing this law because it's very clearly set. So it's not possible for someone who's finished teaching to come work in kindergarten but it's possible that those who have graduated from the Pedagogical Academy or any other school for foster parents can be and do the nanny's job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27547	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came to the debate with the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. That in Croatia parents, and all of us together act in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and that they take over in the full range of duties not only rights but also the duties of raising and guarding children equally, we would certainly have fewer problems. But also since we're all aware that raising and babysitting is almost a woman's job, and that's not how this problem would have been solved long ago and we would have a legal solution. But it took a long time, although some pilot programs have been before, it should certainly be acknowledged but here it comes to power and power that shows that there is hearing about these problems, but also the power that has a soul. Because these aren't just technical things, these aren't the things they've dared to say since this morning, so when we're protecting the environment, it's not for you to protect the environment, it's for you to tax. When we talk about the same abuse that steals the state and steals subsidies that are not intended and when we want to prevent it, it's not for you to prevent abuse, it's for you to tax. So someone came up on this sensitive subject, and you're talking about collecting taxes, and they're saying why you don't give more for this, why that. Let's all get serious together and support some good things, of course, if there are better solutions with such suggestions to come out. I think it's too serious, it's about children, it's about our children, and whenever it's a matter and when it's a question, when such a topic is then there's really no room for such discussions, especially when statistics show devastating results. So every effort that enables and which goes into the protection of parents and facilitates the work of parents, which enables both partners to work, therefore also contribute to parents, family and the entire Croatian society. They're all small steps, but in their total they can give good results. Of course, it is good for many to ask now and very detailed questions, of course, that all these questions were not raised when for years we had situations where desperate parents in the middles where there were no kindergartens, and let alone the mangers have to get along, do not have grandmother service or these grandparents why they don't owe or want to guard their grandchildren, they have to look for people. They would regularly receive people, older people, to the extent that such individuals should need help, let alone care for children. But even such individuals had one great value, they were emotionally bound to children. And this job can't be done by anyone, no matter how much financial pressure it is. He'd rather clean up. He'd rather do something else. This job should be loved and whoever does this job has a special emotional relationship with children. Therefore, such individuals should be protected. Did those who criticized that the state cared about tax collection because they were concerned about whether this person was taking advantage of, the one who guards, ultimately whether she was being paid pension, health care, and ultimately what the child’s safety and family is. So it's absolutely put, I'm glad that in fact, regardless of these remarks, everyone still supports this bill's proposal. So here she is now, Madam Minister, removing every dilemma, regardless of the name in Article 5, which says that the nanny is every natural person, therefore both men and women, and the children we saw in kindergartens, are happy to accept exactly the men as their guardians and as their educators. Thus, it is in this sense that this equality and one call and such persons are to be answered. There are a lot of younger people who are interested in these jobs. There have also been observations here so far, and I have to answer this, and it concerns the provision of Article 35 that almost all laws impose burdens on local self-government units and that they will finance it. I will mention here first of all the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child I quote says: local self-government is required under this Convention, so the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to meet the needs of its citizens, to treat them equally, whether the family has decided to keep children in kindergarten or through nanny. Therefore, it is the job of the local self-government unit to take care of its citizens, not to see how it will distribute its own assets or what the state has given to its neighbours. This is a job to take care of all citizens. There is a tax to be spent, especially in this time of crisis. It is unfortunate that many environments, therefore, are not at stake here, this is also explained by the Minister's office, so overlapping and kindergartens and the nannies themselves, but this law is also going in this direction since units of local self-government will be obliged to co-finance such persons or companies, we will see in what forms or cooperatives or companies themselves, there has been a good observation although I do not see any dangers from different associations, i.e. whether they are legal persons who form certain natural persons. I think it can only be the strengthening of this nanny institute, not its weakness, so kindergartens play a special role, and nannies also play an irreplaceable role. However, it is possible because kindergartens do not work 24 hours, i.e. that the child also has a nanny and that she attends kindergarten. And many parents who are lucky to work, and they have to work, unfortunately, will be more and more, will be allowed to use therefore and the nanny, but that they can also have a child and attend kindergarten. I don't want to be any longer. I welcome first and foremost the idea, and first and foremost this concept of a very neat one and in the nomotechnical sense of this bill that Croatia had long expected and long needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27549	At this exhibition we have one replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27550	I couldn't stand one of your sentences. That's how I'm left with it. I'm going to stay long in my memory, actually. You said this was the first power to have a soul. It's a historic turn in politics. I don't know any authority that has a soul. I don't know any power in the world that has a soul, and that's why I couldn't resist. You said that this government has a soul because it passed the Nanny Act that turned out to be men all the time. Now that's let women and men judge what it is, that context. Well, he doesn't need a word. In fact, you said for sure that raising children is mostly a woman's job. It's a stereotype that needs to be torn down and that's not true. Your claim is not correct. Looks like you're only looking at that average of our age. The younger people behave differently and it is a different practice in Croatia as much as we are patriarchal society. But it's certainly not a stereotype that you said you were a power that had a soul. And you have made another claim that I agree with that we should all act according to the Constitution to make it different in Croatia. And now I quote article 55. The constitution so I pray that the government and the Kukuriku coalition behave as it says in the Constitution. Article 55 says: "Everyone has the right to work and freedom of work. Everyone's free to pick a call and a job. Every job and duty is available to everyone under equal conditions." Let's stick to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27551	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27552	Well, dear and esteemed colleague, you've already prepared or wanted to say something you wanted to say, and then you're supplementing one piece of my sentence, and you're still supplementing yours as if they were all mine. Well, it's called otherwise in criminal law forgeries. And if you wanted to replicate, you had a lot of things to replicate to me just to have a little bit more courage, but then since you didn't have so much, you added something to me that you'd like me to say so that you could answer me. That's not necessary. And I'm not afraid to say that power should have a soul, it should have a mind, but it should have hearts to be close to citizens and to see what people need. Because you see here is an interest in protecting these people right now and getting to the point of having a child have care, having a child to look after. And you're just saying that the government, so you're scandalizing yourself. First of all, I didn't say first power. I said this is a government that shows that it has a soul. And why now the team to speak is to take away, win, destroy. These are terms that no one reacts to in any context, and then we wonder why our children are violent. And when someone dares to tell you this term of soul, self-care, care for another, it's a miracle, it's even insolence. It seems that it's impertinent to tell the truth and show your feelings and show your soul. I'm surprised that it's you from that party that I'm thinking, at least so far, that showed the affirmation exactly and the drive, so quite technicalally managementism and showing these other values of solidarity to criticise it. Instead of just complimenting you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27553	We continue with an individual debate, respected representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here are some key facts for me that I go from thinking about and discussing about this law are two. First, the existing system of childcare needs to be modernised, improved, developed, modernised. Another important fact is that outside of the institutional form of child care in Croatia is currently disabled, i.e. it exists, but is not legal and in this context this is indeed a long-awaited law. I personally believe that this law should also respond to the needs of children and parents and nannies, as well as to the entire communities. As for the needs of children and their parents, so we create a legal framework, create a legal basis. Yes, alternative but deeply I believe for the same quality and safe accommodation of the child with the continued care of the nanny. Sometimes it seems to me that the existing system is stuck, as if it had stopped in some ancient times when parents may have been uneasy to say less. But it was all different working hours and hours, and in that sense I hold that the law proposed today goes into step with time, that is to say, meets the needs of time in which we live. This law should also respond to the needs of the nanny whose work today has been heard in the field of the gray economy and this also means in the sphere of socially unprotected form of work. Finally, I believe in this law that we are also responding to the needs of the community because, on the one hand, the institutional form in Croatia is insufficient. Cities and municipalities generally don't have enough kindergartens, and in these difficult times of crisis, I find it difficult to expect new kindergartens to be built. And finally, on the other hand, perhaps now that he has a greater number of parents, when he feels one legal certainty, he will decide to leave the child to the nanny. For years, perhaps a little too long, conditions were created for the adoption of such a law. She has the right to co-worker Tyrelli when she says we are not going exactly from a zero point, indeed in the past 12 years, a lot has happened that led to this law and then the institution, the State Institute for Family Protection, Motherhood and Youth, has started to hire women, I have to boast, I have to take advantage of this opportunity and say that the city of Rijeka was one of the first to start with a nanny training project and the programme was implemented according to a programme that was reformed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. In 2010, the programme in Varazdin, then again in Rijeka, in the Primorje-Gorski County, with the help of the development agency, then we trained about 60 nannies and 60 women for nanny jobs, and then we come after all, almost 12 years to a paradoxal situation. Or we have a paradoxical situation all the time, which is that the state, that the county, that cities give money to train women for activities that they can't finally register, so they can't legalize. On the one hand, the state educates them, and on the other hand they don't want to work, at least not legally. So amazing what absurdity we're able to bring things to but of course we're here to change things for the better for the benefit of the citizens. The situation as we have today, so the absence of the law is bad because the activity of the nanny is in the field of the gray economy, which is, of course, as it has been pointed out badly for the state budget, although it was a right and a colleague of Borzan, what comes into the state budget will certainly not save him, but what we should be concerned about, personally, is that in such a situation as we do today, children are unprotected, because their parents are unprotected because there is no mechanism, control or working conditions, neither the nanny's work nor her competences nor her knowledge, nor the spatial conditions, nothing, nothing at all. We can only imagine how many times parents leave their child practically unknown to ask if that person has enough competence, whether it will be all right, whether he has enough knowledge, etc. So I'm sure the past, that the midwives who have been educated for nanny activity are actually waiting for us to pass the law relatively quickly I believe that they will be able to open a craft, start a job, we've heard that these women who are waiting for that moment have a lot, so we're finally going to remove obstacles to legal work. In that case, we have to hope in this sense and somehow appeal to ensure a good system of support for the nannies through regular education, professional lectures, perfecting therefore a continuous super vision and permanent education. Since the law saw the light of day, of course, there has been criticism on his account and doubts about quality law. One of the criticisms, as already mentioned, referred to the work of the nanny through cooperatives and companies, I am very pleased that the promoter is ready to further consider certain segments of the law, more specifically to edit or modify this to what extent it is necessary if it can prevent any abuse or manipulation. One of the criticisms that could be heard during the broad public debate was the one relating to units of local self-government or their obligation throughout this story personally in that part of the law. I do not see anything controversial, because it has always been and will always be that in some areas there is sensitivity to a particular issue of citizens, and in this sense it has also taken care of the standards for the care of children and persons with disabilities and the protection of motherhood in health care, and in some cases there has been no or no sensitivity. So in some areas, citizens are a priority, and in some others there are other priorities, and this is not mostly, not necessarily about financial power or not a unit of local self-government, in other words, in some areas, regardless of the existence of financial resources, do little or almost nothing to increase the quality of life of citizens and introduce, for example. Some kind of superstandard, and I actually think it's good that the law prescribes it. So, according to my deep conviction, this law lays the legal basis for quality and standardised implementation of activities first, the other children are given safe care by educated nannies, providing them with legal certainty in some way and also giving them the option of choice, the fourth one allowing them safe and legal employment of women, the fifth one may be a rescue for some women who are jobless and who would like to pass a job education that will be the basis for pension and health security or insurance. Someone can say so these women can do it today, but they can't achieve those other benefits that would go along with that job and finally as many times as it's mentioned here and I really think it's the most important thing but when I list all the elements that speak... I must also say, then, that the state will ensure this tax collection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are all the reasons that, by my deep conviction, speak in favor of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27555	Replica, the esteemed representative of Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Jerkovic, I was really listening very carefully, and I think the vice president is the same, and with some other discussion about the name of this law and you said too good a formulation, which is when you said you said this is the law on extra-institutional child care. So I personally think that this law could be called exactly as you called it, because then Madam Ministers might be able to install this new initiative, which is a playground, maybe, maybe, I don't know, here's what I'm talking about, but, and maybe that one name of the nanny wouldn't be so strictly defined, because it's really the babysitters of those who are in the people who are looking after little children, and not this older one, but this is fantastically real to me here, if we could be determined and suggest this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27557	The replica corresponds to representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27558	Comrade twilight, this is really refreshing, whenever you came to me for a replica, it's always been to express your disagreement with my opinion, I'm glad to hear that there's something we can agree on. If the Minister accepts your proposal, it's quite fine for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27559	We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27560	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice-President with Associates, Honorable fellow MPs and fellow MPs. In the last few decades, childcare services have become a matter of very, very serious public interest. A favourable and quality childcare service, i.e. nannying, can improve the coordination of work and family life and thus encourage participation in the labour market and gender equality, nannying can also provide an important response to the decline of fertility rates, i.e. by harmonising labour market and careers with family life. The importance of providing childcare services is also recognised at European Union level. At the Barcelona summit in 2002, some explicit conclusions were defined in view of the provisions of childcare services, the objectives were confirmed, which is full employment, removing obstacles to female participation in work, covering at least 90% of children between 3 years of age and school age and at least 33% of children under 3 years of age. The importance of these objectives has also been confirmed in the guidelines for employment adopted by the Council of Europe. Childcare increases parental choices, improves the position of women in the labour market and simultaneously promotes family life. There are several reasons why these laws should be passed in Croatia. The classic argument concerns the fact that the availability of quality child care services has a positive impact on women's participation rate on the labour market, which can increase gender equality, which promotes economic growth and the sustainability of the social state. Another argument points to the fact that childcare can increase the birth rate by having a child, i.e. having children less demanding in terms of harmonising incomes and careers, which can ultimately contribute to reducing unemployment and poverty. Arguments in favour of nannying are well known and most European countries have initiated an increase in availability, i.e. the quality of child care services, but many countries in the European Union are far from achieving the Barcelona objectives of this service, obstacles are financial, but also ideological. One of the most complex challenges concerns the fact that the objectives of gender equality policy, the promotion of birth and social integration are not always easily compatible. Another complicated issue concerns the issue of parental choice, parents can differ in their wishes in terms of work and family, but regardless of the challenges of this bill, they ensure in an area that has not at all had a legal framework of standard and quality of care by respecting several principles, which are the principle of care that ensures respect for the dignity and unity of each child, the obligation to treat children with respect, that is, the safety, that is, to control the lives of children and young people from unreasonable risks, that is, the right, that is, to protect human and child rights, respect for equality and recognition of diversity, children treated equally, while respecting their tradition and culture, the right to choose children and parents and guardians get the choice from a series of options based on clear and accurate information and privacy, children have the right to peace, indifference and freedom, and parents and guardians know that information about their children is confidential. Regardless of everything, it is clear whether nannying is taking place in the child’s home or in the nanny’s care of only one child or child sharing care with the other five children, the nanny does not replace institutional preschool or school care, let’s not forget children in an extended stay or a full - time stay, or children who cannot do so. Nannys are not competitors to breeders and raisers, nor threaten kindergartens, were they private or public, built or planned, it is true that until now active care for children could only be carried out by preschool institutions, given that there is a lack of place in preschool education and that funds for the establishment of preschool institutions are limited, alternative care is not only necessary, but it is also a reality. This law will regulate the safe and standardised implementation of this activity, which has so far been exclusively in the grey economy area, as has been mentioned so far, and enable parents to receive adequate care for children and certain legal certainty, and ultimately the possibility of a choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27561	Thank you. It's next, Honorable representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27562	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I volunteered for this debate in order to commend the government and the resolute ministry for having both the courage and the wisdom and the political will to make this legislative proposal that out of one wide-ranging activity that has been working on the black system for decades, a system that will work so that parents can be satisfied with children, to be satisfied with the nanny and ultimately to be satisfied with the state. That is why this law is the first one we can say a positive step towards legalising the work of the nanny and their employment but at the same time one really good starting point for the development of the family childcare model. If this law had been passed a few years ago by spinning us at this point, we wouldn't be pruning like bee hives, or today we'd be more ready for new pedagogical standards that should be applied by the end of the current year 2013, which include reducing the number of children per group and increasing the number of educators. What should really be pointed out is that this law is suitable for the current social and economic moment. Is there a better way than this model to solve three big problems with one move? The first problem is a large number of unemployed women and it is mostly a difficult group of women who will surely find a part of the job just as a nanny. And in that sense, I want to believe that there is coordination between the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts in order to make use of the funds of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship intended for women entrepreneurs, so women entrepreneurs who will therefore need these funds to equip the space for childcare. Another problem is the lack of kindergarten, and this lack certainly takes another longer to be current because local self-government simply has no money for their massive construction. The kindergarten needs between 10, 12 and up to 15 million kuna, with the help of the nanny to organize childcare needs an incomparably less. And this law is an ideal solution for small local low fiscal capacity environments that cannot be provided in their field and institutional care for preschool children. The third problem that will be solved precisely for this sphere of childcare is working on black. It will definitely disappear in this area or in any case it will be incomparably less. So this law will profit both parents from what I said and from the children and from the nannies and the state. In view of this law, it is a whole new matter, as the minister herself said in the introduction, so that there was no template for its creation, it is clear that it cannot be perfect and certainly there is plenty of room to be fixed. What is very important in this respect is the will of the promoter to listen to us and to do so on the basis of our remarks and suggestions. In that sense, I will point only to two points that are personally controversial to me because of other dilemmas, in fact, a lot has already been said. The first thing is the following, an important role, a very important role in the legislative proposal is family value. They shall issue a decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out the nanny's activities. However, I wonder who makes such a solution when the family center does not exist or it does not function as it does in the County of Međimurje? Who, then, makes such a decision and carries out all the other powers prescribed by this law? And the second question is co-financing by local self-government. Article 37(1) of the Law states that units of local and regional self-government are obliged to subsidise the activities of the nanny but only if they do not have organised child care in their territory. I think the units of local self-government and that I really agree with my previous speakers, so I think that local self-government units should subsidise nanny activity and then when they have kindergarten in their area but, for example, he doesn't have the capacity to accept all the children. It is unacceptable for me to say that a parent or a child who cannot be provided with kindergarten education, and the law provides an alternative option for the child to not follow the other option of local or regional self-government units financially. All parents and all children should be treated equally regardless of which form of care is therefore institutional or non-institutional because all parents are taxpayers. And finally I'm going to say let's just start to apply the law so you'll see what its weak points are and then it can certainly be done or made better and more similar for a good implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27563	A respected representative, Branko Boxti, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27564	Thank you. Well, you first told your colleagues that local self-government in the Republic won't have the funds to build kindergartens for much longer. Is that understood? And in the end, you say that the same local self-government has to take care of children. In what way? I would like to hear from one of you who is from the field of special state care or mountainous area, and in your party there seems to me to be the mayor and mayor who are from these areas so that they can tell how much money they have and why they spend it. Well, there's no easy opportunity to build kindergartens, and also to spend money on new expenditures. It is nice to speak from the position of colleague Jerkovic from Rijeka, Zagreb, etc., and come to me in Benkovac and do something like that. counterpart Ingrid talks about the soul earlier, counterpart Jerkovic says he has no sensitivity, calls for a UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also the European Convention on Local Self-Government says there is no making new commitments unless the funds are secured, and that is exactly what this is about, and I am therefore warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27565	The replica matches the esteemed Nadia Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27566	Dear colleague of the Box, you or you didn't hear well, so I will tell you again what I said, so the problem is the lack of kindergarten, and this problem will be current for a long time. I did say so, but at the same time I said the following. It takes between 10 and 15 million kunas to build kindergartens, and what we're talking about today, so to organise childcare with the help of the nanny, it takes incomparably less money, and this law is actually an ideal solution to the problem that you're talking about, so for small local environments that don't have that fiscal capacity to build kindergartens. So today we're talking about extra-institutional childcare, not kindergartens, and that's a good example and a good solution precisely for those environments that don't have the money to build kindergartens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27567	We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27568	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a lot of what's been said so far, I'll try not to repeat it, but in some cases I think repeating my mother's knowledge, and what I've at least realized from the debate so far, many colleagues and colleagues simply don't distinguish what a preschool system is, and what child care is. So if we're talking about preschool institutions, they're primarily educational institutions. We can say that in a small part and educational area now, because already in preschool institutions, we have different educational and educational programmes for preschool education institutions. This does not mean the institution of a nanny, or the activity of a nanny, if you want it not to be a educational element although it may be, it is primarily childcare, meaning literally childcare, or those children who are in the care of the nanny are provided with the supervision of an adult during the time that parents or close relatives, so grandparents, and so on, cannot take care of them. So there's an important difference, and I think here I agree with my colleague, Spoljar, and I think that's what the minister said, so we absolutely don't get into the elements of preschool education. He is still present, he is one completely different category, a highly desirable category, but unfortunately because of the different objective circumstances simply all children cannot enjoy the benefits of the same. In my opinion, in this law, two elements are actually very important. The first step is to provide extra-institutional care for children as well as to lay the basis for a transparent and legally secure child care system. Why am I saying that? So we had before that famous grandmother service, he always worked and, of course, parents with full trust would leave their children behind. However, you are putting yourself in a situation where you leave your children in your own space or in the space of a third party, even though it went according to recommendation and the like, so there is one fear there, at least I would have it as a parent to whom I leave my children. However, there is legal certainty, that people who are going to deal with this activity will be accredited, so there will be a nanny's directory in a particular municipality, or city, county and there will be certain legal certainty. The second value I see here is self-employment. My colleague Jelash has already mentioned this, and I see the value in this especially in self-employment of difficult employment categories, if we are talking about people who will carry out these activities and we can agree that it will mostly be women, then we are talking about women 50+ years, so they fall into a very difficult employment category that employers are more or less avoiding. Thus, opportunities will be created for those in a legal manner to be involved in the activities that they would likely do in this way and thus mean what they lack to retire and to ensure their existence. I agree that the role of the local self-government unit here is very large, as well as in most of the things we're talking about. So we can say that the central government has powers over this, we need to help this or that, and I agree here, it's certainly childcare. However, the big initiative remains on local self-government units. Of course, we are also aware of the financial or fiscal constraints of local self-government units on many issues and on many issues where their laws prescribe obligations, so where they already have the costs they can't redistribute funds from. However, I believe that this is also my personal belief, that many mayors, mayors, mayors are quite staticly experiencing their role. Instead of being proactive they are more or less passive, especially in a situation where they have been able to provide their units with local self-government money from pre-accession funds, they will now still have that option but under a little more difficult conditions. So we're going into structural funds here, depending on what category it's about. It's mostly a social category here. So they could find funds through kindergarten funds, equipment for the same, etc. Of course, it's not possible somewhere and we need to be aware of it and it's quite clear, but that means we're giving these local self-government units a legal opportunity to subsidize an institution that will take care of children. Especially our mouths are filled with care for islands and villages. Slavonian village dies, same as the Croatian island, unfortunately. But what's the reason for that? And the economic situation, among other things, clearly, is that people go through the belly after bread, but also that in smaller environments they simply do not have the same opportunities as they are given in larger environments, so care for their children while parents are working or being busy in other ways. Thus, in this way and smaller municipalities that have limited resources, in particular means that islands and rurals are given the opportunity to provide at least this kind of childcare for their citizens. For this reason, many things have already been said not to repeat this law should certainly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27569	We have two replicas on this exhibit. First respected representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27570	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Hajdukovic, you said you had to repeat because it seems that many people do not understand the difference between pre-school education institutions and this foster institution and the activities of the nanny as a child care provider precisely because we understand colleague Hajdukovic very well, we understand him very well, because we are also warning him about article 37, which is not how you say that local self-government and regional self-government is an opportunity to subsidize, not giving him the opportunity but to give him a commitment. The law says they are obliged to co-finance, and precisely because we understand it then we know that the Preschool Law is already a duty and the Law on Local Self-Government also states that it is the duty of local units to care for preschool education and to finance it. And as this is about caring outside the institutional care of the child and the new law, it is also about a new obligation for local self-government, and as we have already heard it said by the Council of Europe Convention that local self-government is precisely to ensure that citizens who are entitled to it cannot impose new obligations on them unless the same tax laws provide them with the distribution of tax cakes so that they can also finance this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27571	The replica corresponds to the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't know if you've been here in the assembly, but the debate has really been going that way and I believe Mr. Sanader's watches, your former president, are very understanding the funding problems we're facing right now, and why. And I wonder how much an hour like that could be financed by preschool institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27573	Now, colleagues and colleagues, please maintain the dignity of this high house. Please! The MP has the right to debate, has the right to express his opinion. I have to make sure he doesn't get distracted in that speech and I'm asking you nicely not to throw it out of the bench while the counsel is saying something. If you disagree with his opinion, you may express that opinion in a replica or reply to a replica, but you cannot shout. You're providing an ugly picture of this House. Take care of that. We now have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Djurdzica Sumrak's application to the Rules of Procedure. What did you have? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27574	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, and thank you for giving me the opportunity to take advantage of this violation of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, it refers to young Mr. Hajdukovic's statement...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27575	And you may present the breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. You must first tell me which member, which provision. Listen to me! You must first say which article was broken and why.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27576	This Regulation shall enter Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27577	What article was broken?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27578	212.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27579	212 good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27580	So, 212 for that. You see what it looks like when something very good wants to be ruined and something very good is pushed something very bad into intervention, of course we saw Mr. Dragovan who naturally gave the creamworth to young Mr. Hajdukovic. It's very sad and we'll really support it all, but this way we talk about it it's the least of all senseless, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27581	Now, Article 212 has not been broken, and if you consider this my opinion and my interpretation to be incorrect, you should contact the Committee on the Constitution. If you do not address the Committee on the Constitution, then it means that you have misused this correction of an incorrect assumption, because you are not actually convinced that, in fact, the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is because you are not convinced that the Rules of Procedure has been violated and you are abused by this institution which is given to you by the Rules of Procedure for the purpose of safeguarding the Rules of Procedure and not that we abuse the right to speak in the Parliament of whatever you wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27582	Thank you very much. I'll talk to the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27583	No arguments, no debates with the chairman. And that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure. ... There's no throwing it out of the bench. [[You can't hear it.]] And it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Well, stick to the Rules of Procedure. We brought it ourselves. Now we have another violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Gordan Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27584	Mr. Chairman, it is therefore an injury to the article in the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure that is now Article 214 or Article 216, so I would ask you to give a warning to me for two MPs. For my colleague Šim Djurdjevic and Mrs Djurdzica Sumrak, because they demeaned or insulted the president or other representatives, because... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27585	So behave yourself in a decent manner according to where you are. Well, look, you've been elected by the citizens of this country. I can't get into why they chose you. ... So behave yourself. ... [[Intruder Djakić, you don't understand.]] Behave yourself. .../Intruding Djakic: So you did it last time in the Assembly session when you were a representative in the Parliament. [[Intruder Djakić, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27586	He's here now?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27587	I'm setting a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27588	So make sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27589	[[CONTINUE AFTER MEETING IN 18,40]] counterpart Hajdukovic wondered how many kindergartens could be made for Sanader's watches, so he did not insult anyone. But on the right side of the assembly, there's been a wave. Insults also took off, counterpart Hajdukovic was called a leper, which certainly does not correspond to Parliament's dignity and counterpart Djakic ran towards the chairman's threat. I'm not going to make any warnings right now in order to calm down the situation and everyone will be responsible for their behavior. Now we're going to continue the debate. It's time for the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go. I'm sorry, we had a backlog. ... You can't get a word on behalf of the HDZ Club now because you didn't ask for a break, so you can't talk and do what comes to your mind, so we have a Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, the replica of my colleague, Boric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27590	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Vice President. It's obvious that you're not getting along in this function, don't get angry, this is your second move, you're only moving within the party frameworks, and then you can't solve the situation, so you're declaring breaks, but well, we can take anything that comes from the left, and that's behavior that's unilateral and to harm us on this right. My colleagues, Hajdukovic, to ask the question, how many kindergartens could be made in Novi Gradiška for those famous ten million kunas on the wrong guarantee, is that there is, perhaps one, maybe two and perhaps none, so that we hold a debate at that level, that on this beautiful subject that you discussed nicely here. You're in the mayor's company, it's visible, the mayor won't be, but you still gave lessons to all the current mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, minors declared them incompetent, that they don't know how to get money out of funds, that they don't know how to make kindergartens and you still talk about islands, and you have no idea about islands, and the question is when you were on the island. The island lives three months in summer and nine months in winter, in nine months there is no need for a nanny. In three months people manage in their own way mostly institutionally in kindergartens when other children almost large most of them come out who attend a word during the year, then some other children come in. There is enough capacity on the islands for now, and another government has worked hard to build infrastructure and all that it takes to provide institutionally for children, and I say in winter, islanders do little work, do not have much work to do, protect and raise their children and nannies, so that this story of yours about the law does not exist. The Croatian Nanny Association disagrees with this law and you can say whatever you want and appeal to all other lessons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27591	Comrade Boric, in more than 30 seconds you have exceeded the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, but you only show how you respect the regulations, the Rules of Procedure for which you voted. Show it to the public, I didn't want to interrupt. Do what you want. Replication response, colleague Hajdukovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27592	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I don't know if we're going to go down to the level and we're not going to, because I won't, then I could say that you're ignorant about taxes when you haven't figured out my general tax law debate at all, but I'm not that kind of guy and I'm not going down to that level. I didn't insult anyone here, I'm very sorry that you're identifying yourself today with Mr. Sanader, so it's an insult to you, but the fact is, it's what I said. I didn't insult any mayor, no mayor, no mayor. I've said that many have played their part quite passively. I didn't say everybody did it. I can now list to you a series of examples of the mayor, the mayor who almost created something out of nothing, but they did not create something by sitting in their office, but really, truly, truly, committed. You've also brought here a whole series of grades and offensive remarks and your colleagues have thrown baloneys and so forth. I won't call anyone a liar here, I won't call anyone a liar, I'll forgive her Christianly, and I'll show you how to forgive myself, so I forgive you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27593	We're continuing an individual debate. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I am very sorry that there has been an incident like this. I'm sorry about that because here's the soufflé, you can see what it leads to, especially, I have to say to the underexperienced colleagues like my colleague Hajdukovic. The least I could hope for was that a young man who started his discussion about this bill, which we all really think is good and should be supported. In spite of everything, we will support him, and I hope that you will respect our proposals as well as all that I have said in my replica and, of course, commended and, in particular, here with Mrs Jerkovic, including with other of our parliamentary representatives and MPs who have said that you will eventually respect him. This is neither the place nor the time to break a spear on children today nor tonight if someone is watching this session of the assembly, I don't know if they're watching it or not, really what they're going to think, that we're planting this bill and this good suggestion that we're trying to blast with some pointless raids that go the other way. Such incursions today could pour on one another infinitely much, insult each other, and we would never come anywhere. Parents don't care about those watches or paying home for their dead aunts, they don't care about anything today they want to know how to get rid of their children. What in this whole story about this law now called the Nanny Act, is important to a parent? Who will care for his children or children? What kind of person will that be? Does that person love children? Was she a mother? Does he know how to cook? What kind of care will give their child? The most beautiful time is spent parenting in those years right after this law is the Law on maternity and parental benefits, when parents and moms and dad in this case are getting ready for work, if they have it, then they are happy, and then they are in a dilemma. Maybe they don't have grandparents to look after their baby because they do it if they're lucky. So this is a good basis well defined what should be done. I personally consider myself a few more just because I've had a lot of replicas I'd say a few suggestions, which is that this person nanny, or I've read a conveniently on the Internet aunt's guardian, is someone very nice writing it, and it's very nice to describe it, should be a person who might have recommendations. If we're in the position of a parent who gives children, of course, that's the most important thing for them. At that point, the parent does not consider whether this person paid the tax or did not pay the tax in focus is a child. It is very important that the space in which the child will guard the child be a suitable space. I would not agree and say as cold as my previous colleagues, Hajdukovic, said this was just a matter of concern without being raised. It's also about raising a child because you can't say today, please take my child, put him to sleep, feed him, change him that he's not crushed, and don't give him a single shred of education. You will choose the person or choose the person you know to care about will, of course, be one way and raise that child because that child will spend or spend an hour, two, three, walk, five maybe all day. So a lot of the components are tied up. This is a very sensitive law and it should not be spoken coldly through articles and through items. I know when to defend something then it's best to say I don't know there's self-employment of women, it's about editing this, so then there's going to be a tax to be paid but again in this law it's very important to have a component that concerns exactly the care but I also have to say to raise. And once again, I would like to support the sentence spoken by Mrs. Jerkovic, and I would perhaps even support an initiative that has begun to be implemented now, which is in the organization of children's workshops, I'm sorry. Excuse the children's playrooms. Of course, it's the same part where these playrooms are the places where children will stay for a while, play, and someone will watch over them. And maybe it could all get into this kind of legal proposal together. Here's thank you very much and I hope you realize that pointless throws have no purpose because they never end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27595	We have two replicas on this exhibit. First representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27596	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of the twilight sure you're right when you talk about this being a law that will certainly improve care and increase the number of children who will be worried about opening a job. But what we cannot agree on is a new obligation to local self - administration for which all local self - administrations certainly do not have enough resources and cannot finance. It is therefore necessary to consider this part in the law and to say according to your options. It should not be mentioned in the possibility of funding childcare and childcare with Sanader's watches certainly not with anything other than manifests that were made in the Republic of Croatia and I could say some other officials I don't want to deliberately name, which I could. And they are one and the other, and the third, and the blue, and the yellow, and the red, and the black. However, this is not the subject of Mr. Vice President today's debate, and you should have stopped when it started with such a dialogue that certainly has nothing to do with what we all strive for together. And that is to support this law and to find opportunities and resources, but not to impose an obligation that they do not have in their budgets the opportunity to finance. I believe that you understand what we're talking about and that together we're going to fix the part that certainly shouldn't be the obligation of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27597	The replica corresponds to the respected Djurdzica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27598	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Djakic, I agree with you, I agree with every word but I think that during today's debate it was really said where such remarks were made regarding the local administration that should be co-financed and that one proposal was made, or I think the minister said that it was not an obligation but that it was a recommendation, that it was a recommendation, so I hope it will be understood. And I'm sure the central government, as well as the local administration from the county to the towns and to the small towns, the chiefs, dearly willing when there's money and resources, will help with this kind of insurance so that women get hired, the nannies to be, to look after children and so, no one will refuse. But I'm sure there's probably no money in those registers for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27599	Another replica, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27600	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague, actually a colleague, even though I won't replicate to him, so I won't abuse the institute. This law is in the first reading, and that's exactly why we're here anyway to brush up on these details. But what saddens me, fellow twilight you and I used to have constructive discussions, sometimes even funny if you remember. If I'm not mistaken, I think it was a health strategy. But what hits me here, you don't have to love me, but I've been chosen by some people, as well as by you,... less experienced, unexperienced, young, so here's what your coworker said. I've been chosen by some people to say what I mean here, I've said it. As I won't agree with you or my colleague, it doesn't matter, but I respect those voters who chose you. I agree with you, and I also mentioned that the educational component in this part is present but is not primary, so the educational component is primarily in preschool institutions while, of course, the nanny will have this educational component and so I think it's a good thing that there's scholarships, so that people who are doing this activity will have to go through a certain education, even on one, so let's call it a rudimentary, therefore quite primary level. And you say I spoke coldly through the articles, so I think your colleague Lovrin was very coldly quoting the articles, and I said it more in a different way, but here's the same right of your interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27601	We're continuing an individual debate. You have to answer for a reply to the replica and do it while it lasts, so we know that. ... You didn't lift it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're continuing an individual debate. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Reputed vice president of the Croatian government with co-workers, his assistants. I'm really sorry that this debate started over this period because I really thought that the first time that call for all of us to be constructive, to work affirmatively when it comes to children, education, social care, that there is no dilemma and that such unnecessary incursions should not at all cause and end this good debate. And why I'm sorry, I'll tell you. For these, do not be angry with fellow MPs, because of these women and the Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister who have really made an extremely big effort to draft this new law. I think they experienced almost all the committees a good, constructive debate, that they too in this new law because it was a whole new law, they were able to figure out what dilemmas were born among MPs and what questions they were asking and they even gave some suggestions and answers to the committees. Maybe they agreed to what was proposed, and maybe not, we'll see about that after the second reading. So I'm sorry that today we're going to be here at this late hour really, really late when you've started the very debate that you're supposed to most support and affirmatively talk about, really the most, I'd say out of the way and that one good, positive, what we said was an emotional debate turning into something that really doesn't feel like this assembly. That's why I'm gonna cut my debate short, and I'm gonna show just a few dilemmas that have plagued me, and I told them on the board, too. Surely we are all in favour of childcare in kindergartens and I will first underline it because I think, and this law exactly separates the care of children and childcare and education in kindergarten, and I will remind you that recently at the end of that session we discussed the Preschool Education and Education Act where we imposed mandatory preschool and co-financing of preschools. So I can't, and I've heard somewhere from your hearings, yet by sounding that some have said that they could, mainly in smaller local units, replace some places with the nannies, I wouldn't agree. These are two separate institutions, I'll call even though the nanny is not an institution, it's a person who's taking care of children for now. But we must not ignore and allow these small units of local self-government to say that you have now imposed Article 37, because the minister stands there with that word. If we change that word, we'll get a completely different interpretation of that article and I don't think it's going to be a dispute anymore. There will be an opening of the possibility that the local self-government unit can, if it has financial resources and should, if it has financial resources, also target nanny co-financing. But I'm afraid because from some debates, my colleague Jelash once said, she's gone now, I'm sorry, I didn't replicate in one sentence because I was expecting an argument, she said maybe I should change it sometime. Either her colleague Ingrid said go by noon or I don't know when to kindergarten, and later parents, if they have some professional obligations, can also have a nanny. Well, she won't be able to co-finance the local self-government unit, and she has to co-finance it because she and the founder of kindergarten and other parents help him co-finance and protect his child in the afternoon or late evening. That's why it's a form that a unit has to choose one or the other. You know, let's not mix it up, let's not lead it into any possibility of allowing municipalities, cities or small settlements to choose them. There's no choice. The nanny is where there is no possibility of opening a kindergarten, but we all need to be sure that this kindergarten, this preschool education, opens up. A few more questions I wanted to ask. Here are you ministers, and your associates said that here we have educated through the IPA program 132 nannies. counterpart Tyrelli noted in her statement that they were not satisfied with that education somewhere. I have the same experience. I think we should pay special attention to nanny education, later on to their lifelong training, but also to education. Why? I know it was a start, it was a pilot program that was welcome, which opened up the possibility of a number of women and it was open to men, but they certainly didn't report because it was traditionally under quotes of women's interest to get one of their own education, to acquire certain competences to do such a job. But when we have regulated it by law, then we also have a duty as legislator to control such an education that it does not go through about 500 hours three months, six months. I don't know how long that rulebook will be passed. But don't let it go like that. We brought these nannies here. I'm going to say one vivid example. I know there was a group of nannies in one kindergarten. I'm not going to say there wouldn't be insinuation and I don't know what. They were standing there watching what aunts were doing. That's not it. And I think that you and your colleague Tyrelli both said that we should pay special attention to education because we have now regulated this activity legally. One more thing I'm going to ask you to pay particular attention to and warn and my colleagues have already warned that, this is the form that nannies can work through the company and through cooperatives. I'm afraid it doesn't really turn out to be some kind of company. I'll say it under quotes for a big profit. Maybe a colleague of Vishna said they have a free space. You're some kind of warehouse listed. I wouldn't even do that. The minister herself said one house you share in four rooms, hire four nannies, so I can arrange childcare there. That's not it. It'll make sense if we let it happen, and we're aware that it can happen with us. And big profits, that is, that companies become some kind of nanny employment agency. In employment, if they, if we even try to come up with this one form through another reading, then it would be good for the conclusion of a working contract to lead, to have a very big concern about what kind of work contract is being concluded with the nanny. You know why? And there'll be problems. For example, the labour law stipulates that you continuously at 8 o'clock or 7 o'clock working hours do not hold my word for a 30-minute break. No nanny will be able to have that, no nanny will be able to have that, and they won't call that extra nanny for half an hour. So, in these contracts, I'm afraid those persons who are going to carry out this activity won't have to be people, they won't be, I'll say used simply, so they'll work more than necessary. Surely the nanny won't be able to work for eight hours or seven hours. Surely the nanny will not be able to meet those settings that the Labour Act currently provides for. And when this contract is concluded, it is also a fear that can be highlighted. I know we may seem to think too much about how some negativity is going to happen, but knowing what it's about is a very sensitive question, that's why I'm saying this. So I think it's just the opening of the crafts, I know it's going to be hard for them because it's also the administration, it's some obligations but the opening of the crafts, and as an independent work, I think it's a far better form for each nanny, although she has a responsibility under this law. So, I ask you to really consider until the second reading and to put all these proposals that were very well put forward by all our colleagues, consider first of all whether any new form is possible and to include it in the final draft of the law. It's also good, it's really good that you've included in the possibility that the nannies will not be particularly educated, but that a seminar will be conducted by a large number and educational staff, I mean teachers, I mean educators, I mean pedagoggogues and rehabilitators. I mean these people who are largely unemployed, especially breeders. They'll have a great opportunity I'd say self-employment and that's what I think one of my colleagues pointed it out just thinks my colleague Jelash is a very good thing. We think it's a good thing you're in. And there's one more thing I'd like to ask you. Article 24(2) of the company, if it remains in that form that it wishes to carry out its activities, should also have a solution to the Office of State Administration in the county, or the administrative body of the city of Zagreb, on the fulfilment of the spatial conditions for the carrying out of the nanny's activities. This is your general concept of the Office of State Administration. He's got his jobs. I think we have to because everyone else is going to interpret this concept of the Office of State Administration, so someone is going to empower the Office of Social Activities, someone who has or doesn't. Someone possibly Social Services. Differently formed State Administration Offices do not forget in the counties and that will lose the real sense of getting these tasks. And here's someone else already warning me in time I really think we should pay special attention to the family centers. I'll finish with the Minister. Family centers are really institutions that have played a very important role in strengthening awareness of family values, child care lately. I think they should be strengthened, given this function and supervision and education. But I'm asking them to really team up. You now differ from ending the sentence, Vice President, you now have a different number of employees in the family centers, 5-8 highest, and I believe that they are not fully teamed up for this kind of activity. Here, thank you. I think we're all gonna do this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27603	We have reported four replicas. First representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, I'm just going to say that everything is good in this law and that I'm sorry that he's made these implications that went in the wrong direction, it was necessary to consult with the Union of the City and the municipalities to which they are bound in order for them to give their judgment. In previous laws, we have already given them the obligation to maintain the cemetery of totalitarian communist regimes, we have given them more in some segments of obligations that they did not plan in their budgets. If this law convenes as soon as possible in a month or two they will have to rebalance the budget for those who apply to finance this activity. I believe that it will provide and legalise the jobs of the nanny who are now not legalised and that this will help those who today or those who are looking for a job but cannot, however, be a strict obligation of the local self-government unit. In some cities, the issue of childcare in preschool education is resolved but never until the end and there are always rows and waitings that certainly push both cities and municipalities and they would certainly want to solve this problem as soon as possible so that they can provide their children with equal opportunities in half-financing or half-financing of childcare accommodation. However, I am afraid that so far they have not been able to do so by adding kindergartens as well as new kindergartens and private initiative for the construction of kindergartens and functionings that even two foreign languages had in them learnt from the very beginning with additional funding and some other educational programs that certainly parents with higher incomes could have provided to their children. I think that in this respect only this segment is missing, which is the financial obligation of the local self-government unit to comply with those criteria and criteria that are necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27605	Replica reply, representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27606	Thank you, so here is my colleague Djakic, I, in my debate, said at the very beginning and kind of warned about this word due to the article in the proposed law of Article 37. Units of local and regional, regional self-government are obliged to subsidise. If we change that word into a word of duty, it will be lost and no legal obligation will remain. I agree with you. I will give an example of Croatia's Kostajnica. I am afraid that where there is already a kindergarten, where they can no longer maintain a kindergarten without possible help on the side and help the middle state we have helped it and we will help, you must know that it is a town on the border with the BIH, a city that is very strategically important for the Republic but really which is economical on me would say no more on my knees than on my back and they will be leading these say no, we don't need a kindergarten, we will organize five nannies and we will co-finance it with 5 or 7 thousand kuna, I don't know how much by the criteria it will be financially and we have met the needs of preschool education and child care, so I am afraid that we should consider another formulation in this article 37.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27607	Second replica, Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Roksandić, I am very glad that you brought this debate out this way, we are not in a hurry tonight, of course, and therefore we are giving replicas because this is an important law and a bill for us. And here we started talking about who he loves, who he doesn't love, so it doesn't matter at all, I do. I have a child of my colleague Hajdukovic's age, I highly appreciate young people and he is very nice to me and I would never want to offend him personally but I would like to support really all the good proposals in passing this law. The same thing is in education, this education must be special but what I said on one committee but also through says a health check-up of future childcare. I also said that there should be one psychological profile of that person between that simple physical examination. I think that would be unusually important and, of course, that parents who take such a person will look for such a thing and ask for a recommendation. In my opinion, it would be very important that such a person and a member of some association, a nanny association that is in reality a roof association of such persons, and what I would like to say is that the Ombudsman for children in my opinion has shown very well at the top of the age of such persons, is one of the grandparents whom we leave our children for safekeeping, even though they were 70 years old. Somehow we trust it in our condition or in theirs, we are in contact and they feel this child truly as their own, no compensation is received for it, they are not burdened with anything, and then they provide different care and love and education as they are to us, and perhaps we should think about it regardless of what may be the opposite of gender equality or some other legal discrimination, for example. But still...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27609	Reply to the replica esteemed Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27610	Thank you very much. I'm not going to comment on your first part anymore because I think and I've really devoted my debate to this being a positive debate, do I really think it should be? Article 8 defines which person may be a nanny. Among other things, it's said to have general health skills. Thank you for the replica, because I can also express my opinion on the Committee on Gender Equality. I think if the legislator regulated this activity, then we must indeed seek the psychological-medical processing of a person like this. I think that's the most important thing. I know that this general health care ability to be issued by the most frequent medical work specialist, but if they tell you what kind of exams I won't be going through, all the educated school workers have to go through, so both teachers and teachers, teachers all working in schools, but it comes down to the regulation of possible pressure measurement and some kind of medical I won't go in without a doctor getting involved in other people's fields, but most often ends up being able to work. And in this case it's very, very dangerous, because most of the time it's about small children not those up to 14 years old, they're mostly babysitters for small children.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27611	Following is the replica of counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27612	Here's mine won't be in that tone. Dear colleagues, it seems that Mr. Djakic's intervention has yielded fruit, you could speak for two minutes longer, each has exceeded the line. It looks like fear is good. Here you are all something full of love, you're full of tolerance and it's hypocritical. Listen to your discussions about what you've been saying. Now, all of a sudden, we can't mention what you won't because it's disrupting the atmosphere. What kind of atmosphere is it disrupting? It's a good, positive, emotional debate that's gone where? A young colleague mentioned a man who turned Croatia black, compared it to kindergartens, with children. This man who wrapped Croatia in black can be mentioned in any text as a reminder, every day in the context of droughts, accidents, anything, he did it with your help. And don't tell us what we can and can't do, maybe that's what they want us to do to them. Don't mention to us that we can't mention it because it's a detour. Mr. Djakic...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27613	Please engage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27614	With the help of the HDZ, that's right. With help from what? You are the party with the help of HDZ. Every day you should mention it even put the picture in front of it to remember that it... /The speaker turned it off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27615	It's consistent with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27616	My colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27617	My colleague, Roxandic, you're only giving me my word. Okay. The replica matches my colleague, Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27618	Thank you. I won't be long before you don't object to the chairman. I'm sorry you brought that subject back and don't talk to yours. That's why he's answering where he is, where he is. Don't talk to me if I personally found myself hurt and I didn't help him with anything, you know. We should really discuss what is helping and in the way of one political party, and we should discuss it in all political breaks and in other forms of political action. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27619	And the last replica, representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27620	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27621	I'd pray you don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27622	I want to replicate my colleagues, Roksandić, because I think it's good that... one part of the part about the establishment of companies and cooperatives, etc. I think that parents choose the babysitters most because they can take care of a small number of children because they are flexible and can promote family education in a small circle of children. When we enter the sphere of companies or cooperatives, problems may arise because the fact is that when someone starts a company and hires a nanny, it is obvious that he expects a certain profit. This profit will certainly go to the expense of the nanny who should have the opportunity to handle it herself and without companies. However, this is a problem that arises that these companies can rent business premises under this law. You can put 12 children in those business spaces in one room. We get our own children's centers, children's centers. And these centers have no nor standards nor obligations to children, parents, or nannies themselves. That's the problem. You can rent a business space with 5 rooms and take care of 60 kids inside and hire a few nannies. Did we then create a kindergarten? We're not technically, but we are. What are the rules, standards through the law? It's not clear. I think it should be more specific in the second reading and that these options can even be thrown out. Because this is how companies do business. which they own in employment, and we have a law on the agency that intercedes in employment and at the expense of course it goes to the nanny's heart because then they get less money. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27623	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27624	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's to short. A colleague in my discussion, I pointed to that fear. Look, in order to start a private kindergarten, as well as some colleagues have spoken and colleagues, or for one unit of local self-government to establish a kindergarten, it must respect, above all, the very high state pedagogical standards that we have brought to this Croatian Assembly. So starting kindergarten isn't cheap I'll say. In this way, "in a small door" we could really start some kind of childcare centre because we can't call them any institutions for preschool institutions or I don't know what everything or kindergartens are because they can't and can't be. That's why I think the promoters also realized that this form will allow those who want to grow into the Employment Agency to do just that from a commercial society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27625	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's the Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27626	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So the law after the whole afternoon may not be said anything special new, but I think this is one law that deserves to be said about it even after so much debate. First of all, I welcome the government's intention to literally introduce order into one of the areas we all know to exist, not only to introduce order because of these nannies that are educated, perhaps much more because of those who are not educated, and do this work beyond all laws. It doesn't mean that they would do it, but since they didn't have any legal basis, then it's one market, we're talking about thousands of women who do it today. And this law, I think, brings a good framework that, with a certain number of sublegal acts that will be further developed, I think we can agree that it is very welcome and really here after about a year of this government, we have this one law. I'm personally sorry that she didn't follow, so to speak, that family policy from the beginning of 2000, that is, in 2002, where education, or education, was foreseen, I think we called the nurse for children at that time, but here's what's called never too late. And I personally am not going to say that, at first, there is an extension of some period that is now given in this law by 2013 because I believe that this applies primarily and that this deadline will also be respected by those women who have already already been trained, and I believe that a good part of women will also arrive at training by the end of 2013, but after that, of course, this is not the end, i.e. that they will continue to be able to educate, i.e. to open their activities. I also believe that I support the intensities to make certain changes in relation to this first reading of the law. I personally advocate, therefore, that this activity is carried out through the crafts, so that women establish craftsmanship and therefore in such a way as to arrange the activity of care, i.e. babysitting, because the nanny is actually doing so. After all, if we carefully read article 18 and see what all the nannies will do in their work with their children, this also applies to the education of children they will care about. Of course, this government, I believe, and every future one that will leave behind, is that preschool institutions, mangers, kindergartens, so it's basic care, or care about preschool children's education and education. This system that we now provide, or legalize it, is actually becoming in a way that I don't know whether to say compensation or a substrate, a substitute for those parents who, on the one hand, fail to enroll their children in one of the preschool institutions. But on the other hand, I don't think anybody mentioned it, and I respect the will of one part of the parents who are essentially this and the first choice to say so, or they want their children at that age to be guarded by the nannies and thus enable them to do so. In addition, a small school, preschool became mandatory for everyone, hence through a certain institution that year before school, all the children will go through the process again. I therefore believe that it is extremely important, given the activity or description of the job, to all that the nanny will do, to remain this provision relating to the obligation to subsidise the activities of the nanny because it is, in fact, assistance to families. So subsidies to families to make that nanny system available to those who might not have. Because we all agree it's more expensive and it's going to be a more expensive way of babysitting, but if some unit of local self-government doesn't have enough money to open up, to build a nursery, and maybe there's one part of the money that can subsidize parents to give their children to the nanny. And I don't think there should be a problem in that sense and that it shouldn't be limited. So, in my view, we are thus allowing a larger number of parents, or family, to, let me tell you, perhaps it will be a temporary solution until some of them are freed from a place in kindergarten and why it will make it impossible for local administration or self-government to subsidize them as well. I welcome this law because in my opinion this is actually a support to our families. We all talk and like to talk about population politics, about the terrible demographic picture of Croatia, etc., etc. Personally, I believe that this is a very important and concrete measure that goes towards achieving population policy, i.e. as one support and support to families. What should also be pointed out is that economic part. I agree with all those who are therefore going towards not doing this job, I hope that they will not only do women, but perhaps even one part of the unemployed men, but perhaps not just those who are unemployed, perhaps someone who is a working man or woman will decide to finish the nanny course and open their crafts. So, I support it, so I'd say a little bit bigger, and I'd say propaganda in fact, and the state itself, that this business is done by men as well as I think we still lack propaganda that this job in kindergartens is done by men. We have a lot of too few men who are fosterers in kindergartens. Of course, I have no illusions, I don't think anyone has, that with this law, we're going to do exactly what we're saying right now to resuscitate that gray zone, that gray labour market. But with this law, we are entering that gray zone, at least one good part of it we will solve, and I am sure of one good control, enhanced supervision, control, inspections that perhaps not in such a far range of possibilities we can fully understand this activity in the legal frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27627	Thank you, too, Your Honor. A replica of respected representatives of Anne Lovrin has been reported to your presentation. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27628	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Sobol, I couldn't agree more with you. And otherwise, I think it is desirable to participate, help parents, and subsidise all the activities of caring and raising children. But he told your colleague that I read the law coldly. I read the law as it says, because the law must be written in unequivocally that all those who apply it or who read their rights or obligations from it, that they can interpret it unequivocally. In Article 47, it states that they are obliged to subsidise local self-government units to carry out the nanny's activities. What am I afraid of? Of course, it goes on to say in line with the programmes, so the special regulations on local self-government where preschool education is mentioned, which could happen, let's say now that the nannies are applying, they get a solution to meet the conditions for the nanny's activity. So they have everything and then they demand it, and the local self-government unit, for example, has no funds, not budgeted because it's already exhausted in kindergarten. It's just that there aren't any at the moment. Do they then have the authority of this law to require a local self-government unit based on this law to ensure co-financing. That's what this is about. Therefore, it is certainly good that there is a possibility, it should certainly encourage local self-government units to participate and help parents to care and raise children, but not a new duty imposed on them by this law rather than providing them with additional resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27629	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27630	Well, I think we're looking at it differently, or maybe we're looking at it the same way, but I think if a parent who has a child in kindergarten and a local self-government, then a city or a municipality subsidized part of the price of that child's stay in kindergarten, then I think that this local self-government can do the same for the baby-sitter. And first of all, here I am, you're all referring to article 37 and I'm referring to article 18. True, there may also be those units of local self - government who will say that they do not subsidize their parents in kindergartens unless they are possibly social cases, so they will not subsidize even for the child who is in the nanny. And I don't think there should be any problem here and that it's not an additional imposition to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27631	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić is now up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27632	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister of Associates. I'm glad that today we're all clubs and all those who participated in the discussion actually support this law. The fact is that there is a very great need for care, a very great need for help in babysitting. And that's why I somehow called him the Children's Watch Act. The fact is also that there are a lot of women who are babysitting, who are just helping to protect their children’s parents. But they're working on black. According to some data it is 15000 children, however they are of course working without an account, without an internship. Most of these women probably want to actually get years of internships. Therefore, the need for this kind of work to be legalized, and this law is actually one way to do so. We must always remember that this way, that this law is not, brings nothing that is competitive to kindergarten, but real help to protect children. As far as local self-government is concerned, here we are today units of local self-government and that provision that stands in the law they are required if they do not have a secure pre-school education. I would say that every unit of local self-government is essentially in debt and works if it has concerns because if the public administration's goal is to facilitate every situation in which it is, if it is known to subsidize and stuff then it is expected even without this law to do subsidies and for such things, so all local self-government units have, we call out public needs. We all have social policy measures We all bring this to city councils, city councils vote, vote these social policy measures. Therefore, this law can also be subsidized through public needs. It says, in fact, we ask ourselves very often which expert prepares responsible for the nanny. I think it's going to be in this transitional period that we're going to come across a call it a problem, a lot of women even with primary school guarding children. To protect children is not a great learning, love is needed, our grandmothers have kept with great love and attention, therefore even during this transitional period can be accepted but of course continuous education. Education should be distinguished whether it's someone with a primary school, he gave it to a high school. However, all should be kept up-to-date and, of course, it should be documented. It's very important to control, and I'm in favour of this kind of control, and it really needs to be encouraged all the time. The third example was, I heard from a colleague who had a sister in Germany yesterday, and she said the experience of Germany. The experience of Germany that they have a semester course, and they have a 68th-year law. The number of children is similar to ours, they have 8-10 is their number of children and one good experience of theirs. Let's say they cook for those kids, so one mother comes every tenth day to get together because she cooks for the whole kids. There are various ways to organize people. So, the need to help baby-sit children has always been and will always be especially for those little kids and everyone we have is moms, dads, grandparents and so on we have this need. Here's my daughter who's been waiting for the baby to be born for the day, she told me mom please see if Aunt Dade has room, check in with Aunt Dade. So this Aunt Dada has a private kindergarten, and I'm surprised, so wait for the baby, you haven't had a baby yet, but that Aunt Dada has already been registered in advance in pregnancy. Therefore very much, grandma service, grandmothers are in an important place and so far when we talk about nannyes, they've been various projects. Today they are mentioned by Rijeka, etc., also mentioned was the project that worked for HZZ, or it was a project that cost a lot, the EU project, but there was no law in which women and women would be employed, and that is why the law brings structure, and I welcome it once again. As for the form in which I disagree with companies. I welcome the crafts as a way to do it, and also because it's very important to the flexibility of the nanny because this flexibility is an advantage over the institutional form, so remember we who are in the middle of where tourism is developed, how many times you've heard that someone from the hotel is looking for who's going to look after their children if they go to summer games, if they're going somewhere on the road etc., etc. So we need to think about it here, too. And one more thing, why not the vouchers? We saw that the vouchers were very effective. So that's one way to buy a voucher. A minimum daily contribution is paid and the amount of the daily allowance can be negotiated with the parent or future nanny. Here's another time I'm expressing my satisfaction for this law and I'm still thinking of promoting it that the nanny institution should be promoted, I suggest that since there are already courses for pregnant women, where both fathers and future mothers come in, future fathers and future mothers. Therefore, at these courses, they also provide the possibility of such nannies. Of course, I also welcome the register because it is very nice for me in the city or county to see in one place which is the register, I can choose which woman, what quality I want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27633	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Branko Box. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27634	I thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleagues Bonačić mentioned again the funding of local self-government, so it looks like we only have two obstacles, one is companies, and the other is financing, i.e. the participation of local self-government. I repeat again do not speak from the position of Dubrovnik, speak from the position of Croatia Kostanica I do not know Kistanja, Deverska, Knina, any other environment that is not as developed as Dubrovnik. I guess you know, in most units of local self-government, two basic incomes, that's income tax, and the other is communal compensation. Since we have fewer and fewer jobs each day, this means reducing income to local self-government, and also since citizens do not have money, more and less is paid and communal compensation. So the budgets of local self-government are shrinking, not increasing, and imposing new duties on the basis of new legal solutions each time are increasingly falling on the back of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27635	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27636	Well, my colleague Boxty, I did speak from the point of view of Dubrovnik because there I am part of the executive government and I'm working on those programs that I was talking about. I'm aware that not all environments are the same, that they don't have all the mediums of material resources that they can give, but all environments need to take care of their children of course according to what they can. All environments, in fact, every unit of local self-government carries measures of the social programme and probably every unit of local self-government sets out public needs in the social community. So you always have to find a way no matter how much money you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27637	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Mladen Marelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27638	Thank you, Mr. President. I would respect her colleague for what she said and her thoughts, and she supports that the units of local self-government should be involved. Here's a colleague speaking to a smaller unit of local self-government. Unfortunately, these smaller units of local self-government have tremendously high salaries for these commissioners, that they have much higher salaries, a lot of mayors in cities. And these units of less local self-government don't care about kindergartens at all because it's by schools and they've freed them. They should take the seriousness of doing it a little bit. I know from my place where I come from, 38 parents started a kindergarten procedure. We have a kindergarten, but there's no space, and I think this thing will be very good, which is what the river is before a colleague from the island that islands don't matter. It's very important on the islands because these young men, women, work a lot and come from a place where there's great talent, it doesn't come from the local environment, and so there's a lot of talent and the problem is. I think this is the law that will help with this and really thank the Deputy Prime Minister for going with this law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27639	Thank you very much. Replication response. Honorable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27640	Thank you very much. I'm glad my colleague, Marelic, is that you have basically set an example of what is the problem in small areas. So the problem is money, the problem is infrastructure. It costs the most as far as childcare is concerned, and that is why you have made it very clear that such a law will actually help those small environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27641	Thank you very much. It's hard to be the first in the country, we know that. The following for the debate of 10 minutes, MP Vanja Posavac reported respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27642	I would like to thank the esteemed president, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the plaster at the end of this really long debate, and here's my colleague Lovrin's going to be the last one, and I'm going to be right in front of the SDP then. Somehow, we'll end up in a nice way, each of us will say his final, and so will the minister. But I must say, after this debate, I think we all agreed, and I especially support the adoption of the Nanny Act, and I hope that this law will come as soon as possible and as quickly as possible into another reading. We all know that guardian aunts are therefore women who tend to have children in their homes. The reasons are numerous, one of the most common is the lack of room in kindergartens, and so in my Bjelovar it always goes for years as soon as you think about being pregnant, quickly book a place in kindergarten. The second is possible and there is, the greater trust of parents, because the babysitters still have fewer children and the third is not negligible, and that is what this law says, it is a more flexible working time in today’s times as we know it is. And in most cases, we call them "good aunts," they cook well, the kids are happy, happy. However, there are a number of issues but there are also problems that this law is dealing with, and that is very important to me. The first thing that solves is who's responsible for the children because most of the time, these nannies have kept them black, and there's no telling who. Secondly, it's no less important that exactly all jobs are part of the nanny's business, and the third one ultimately has, might still be listed, but here I have singled out, which life and social skills must actually nurse that child and learn. This law regulates exactly all relevant areas, hence the conditions for carrying out activities, the way in which activities are carried out, etc., and all for the purpose of providing as high quality and professional services as possible to children as well as to parents. What is very important is that this law will enable the nannies to carry out their activities legally and that this will affect the reduction of work on black, making it an additional step in curbing the grey economy in which we have heard very much this evening. That is exactly what I am giving support to and will also influence the promotion of entrepreneurship, especially women's entrepreneurship, because more likely, therefore, this job I assume will be accepted by women, but I hope it will also be a brave man. And it's also important to increase the responsibility and rights of the nanny and that's very important for them. Right now they're the ones working on black and their work is uncertain. I can work a day, two, three days and a simple parent can come by word tomorrow we don't need you. What is important for them is that they will be paid contributions, that taxes are paid and that they are both means of care and responsibility. In my view, then, the babysitters will just fill in the missing space that kindergartens do not have and cannot perform, prepare the child, follow-up to school, keep in some sort of what I said in a more flexible time of evening but also on weekends I don't know how many kindergartens in Bjelovar don't work on weekends and there are a lot of occupations and so the doctor and the cook and the waiter who are working both on Saturdays and Sundays and there is a need to keep the child still. Not all parents have the ability of grandmothers to serve, friends, relatives to guard, and therefore are the babysitters and the ones who will enable parents to trust their child with care without fear and nervousness and on specific terms and conditions, and therefore, especially since in the law of first reading until the second reading, we have heard and on committees the ministry will actually accept most of the recommendations, agree certain provisions. I support the adoption of this law and I hope once again it will be in the second reading as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27643	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Next up's Honorable representative Anna Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27644	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with the co-workers. So this law is in the first reading, it's commendable, so we'll have time and you'll probably respect some of our remarks. In principle, we support the adoption of this law, I support it. In fact, outside of institutional care for children, it is rolling that idea, I say, somewhere here is how it has been written and explained since 2003, and it is then strengthened somewhere and updated by national family policy, and then national population policy, and certainly in the field of social care, institutional care is welcomed. But institutional care then involves either seeking or necessary, of course, the control of state-efficient control of state institutions over the quality of service delivery. Why do I think it's good to pass this law? Because this childcare service or the nanny exists in fact, it is done but has no legal framework. This legal framework is first and foremost good for service providers, so the nanny and the assistant nanny will provide them with legal and social security, but it is good for parents, because with clearly drawn frameworks and rules and they will have the safety of keeping their children and guarantee quality service. Of course, it's good from the point of view of the general community that there is no gray economy and there is no illegal activity. But as I said about everything that is being put into non-institutional waters, therefore, it is extremely important to control state institutions. That's what I'd like to say here, I don't think it's pronounced enough. Namely, these are family centers. This law gives a lot of work to family centers. As we have heard it seems to me from the Ombudsman for children that the family centres are not even established in all the counties in Croatia, and where they are very different forces to say human and financial. Under this law, these family centres, along with all those jobs they have done so far under other laws, so they issue a solution to fulfil the terms of the nanny's activities, the terms of the nanny and the helper's nannies, they carry out expert supervision, they run the registry and the nanny's directory. Now look at how many jobs are added, and in the introduction of the bill, it is said that the implementation of this law does not require any additional funding in the state budget, and then whether perhaps in the budget of the unit of the regional self-government or whoever is financing those family centres, but mostly who is funding them will have an additional obligation because the existing capacity of neither the human or the family centres will be sufficient. If there is no new capacity of personnel and financial centres, then let us be certain or effective control of the expert who has been given to them will simply not be able to be. I'd like to say something more about the surveillance, the provisions of this surveillance law, so we're talking about the inspection carried out by the inspection of the competent ministry, but it's also carried out by the state inspectorate, and other inspections in accordance with the powers, etc. I am afraid that in this surveillance of the jurisdiction and duties, inspections of various overlaps will in fact never, in fact, be made aware of who, when and what is required, is to be supervised by such a principled provision of Article 38. Article 39 shows that, in addition to the inspectors referred to in Article 38 of the Law, professional supervision of law enforcement can be carried out by family centres. First, the scholarship can know they can or don't have to do what they want to do, so there's no obligation to carry out expert supervision. Article 39 shows that, apart from inspectors, expert supervision is carried out, although the preceding article says that inspection of the implementation of this law is carried out naturally by the competent Ministry of Social Policy through its inspectors. This results in professional supervision being carried out by the inspection, and the family centre can do so of course if it will or will not, or has no capacity, or does not indicate that this effective supervision will not or will not be. And I also warn on Article 40, which says that the company, craftsman or cooperative is obliged to allow inspectors and authorised persons to carry out inspection supervision. However, in Article 41 in which you speak about professional supervision, you have not committed a single word to a company, craftsman or cooperative and a nanny to provide professional supervision. So the law, if it has been established to commit them to allow inspection supervision, must therefore oblige them to permit and expert supervision because they can deny the family centre such supervision. In breach of the provisions, you shall also have a certain fine for the company of a craftsman or cooperative if you disable or interfere with the conduct of the supervision referred to in Article 40. However, there is no criminal liability and punishment if that same person disables this family centre from expert supervision. I note all of this that I do not believe that the intensity of the legislator was that there is no or that it can be disabled, and then I warn that until the final text perhaps this should be more detailedly streamlining these articles to make it clear that there would be no complete lack of expert supervision by family centres. And since I still have this first reading, I would very quickly warn of a few provisions, so in the definition of an auxiliary nanny, she must be employed in a company not in a commercial company, and it would be good to define in this definition that the assistant nanny cannot work independently, so that it is clearly established that she cannot work independently. In the definition of household members, not for the purposes of this law, but for the purposes of this law. I also do not see the reason for Article 12 shows that the activity of the nanny cannot be carried out in a residential space where foster care services are provided. I don't see why if he takes one child as a foster parent, what's the difference if it's like having a child of his own. Why can't he still be a nanny? I mean, I don't get it. Maybe there's some reason. Something else very important that seems to me in article 16 that tells me about the employment of one or more auxiliary babysitters of one or more of them. Does this mean that for each assistant nanny, the number of children can be increased by two, and for each additional nanny, the number of children by six, or does that mean that no matter how many extra nanny or nanny jobs can be increased by 6 or 2, that doesn't come out clearly from this? And can anyone who has the nanny activity hire four nannies and then have 24 or 30 children in that area? But he believes that's not the case, but it should be made clear. Article 14 which says that the conditions of space, the equipment of space will be determined by the minister by the regulation, so we should just say something to the Law on the legality of the facility, since if it opens up the crafts, that facility will have to be legal. So I ask what happens to the company or the cooperative, because they won't have that obligation. And just one sentence, the final provisions of Article 45, maybe we have an explanation, so the minister will adopt a rule on space within the deadline, or the Minister, now a rule on space within 60 days, on an education programme within 60 days, that's fine, but it takes 6 months to get the rules on nanny registers and the nanny directory. Namely, I guess the situation that they are rules within 60 days, that the nannies may obtain the conditions for carrying out their activities and that there will be no rules on the register and the register in which they are to be entered. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27645	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the list of representatives reported for a ten-minute hearing. On behalf of the promoter, Milanka Opačić is now a respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth. Here's your honorary Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27646	Well, first of all, I would like to thank everyone who participated in today's debate and thank you for all the arguments and suggestions that the law will be better. I'm just going to take the opportunity to see maybe some MPs who've been opening some subjects and giving some information. In fact, we've been thinking about the playrooms and how to regulate the ratio of the casinos, but from the education system, they said it's in their jurisdiction. We've got their own way of showing that they're going to move very quickly to change, that the necessary laws or regulations, regulations in any case should also be defined that we don't happen to cases that happen when children are in a playground without any supervision of an adult. So we expect the playrooms to be covered as soon as possible. And on the other hand, we didn't want to mix things up in some way in our own way. When it comes to nanny education we've had a conversation with open school leaders, the fact is that so far education has been very different, everyone has had some of their own programs, haven't even been in the same kind of time. We are now going to achieve a unique education with the Education Agency, which should listen to all the nannies in that education, but it would be good if we didn't make great science here. Because the fact is that many women today who are very successful and well and good and quality in the care of children are not for example. I've been through no education. Thus, it would be good if that education did not again become something that would put a great deal of pressure on them, perhaps necessarily not making them much better and better. It seems to me that here we have commented a little bit here in the benches that for the job of the nanny, or for babysitting, you primarily need great love for those children and great patience and a good psychological stability, and perhaps a much less knowledge that will necessarily make the nanny more quality. Anyway, I'm in favor of education. The fact is that they need to be given some things, but here's what I'd like to do is, in agreement with the agency, we don't exactly make some great wisdom out of it right now, because only then will we make it harder for women to maybe do such educations for too long and then be out of here for a long time, let's say some market. As for the co-financing of the nanny, look, we can't force anyone, so not a single unit of local self-government to finance something unless there's no money. However, funding for this project will in fact be a matter of one social sensitivity for each mayor and mayor. Everyone's gonna make as much money as they have, if they have. If he doesn't, he won't solve his citizens' problems any other way. I think when I said in a previous address that this is a year of adjustment, so this is one new institute that needs to be followed, to live. The mayors must also make their own rules of play, so the mayors can decide to introduce an asset censorship and say that those parents who have enough funds to pay the nanny will not be involved. We will participate in a particular category, so our parents who will thus be helped to take care of these children more easily because they may not be able to finance this price that will be formed on the market so that the mayors really now have a place to sort of set their own rules of play, which and how they want to finance as well as all the other things they finance. So, we have no intention at all of imposing anything on local self-government because I think we should impose if local self-government doesn't have any money that we've done, so absolutely nothing. As for the voucher, so I said that one part of these problems will solve for us, so the Law that should come here in the coming months in front of you in temporary and occasional affairs. I think that law will also help this resolution that you've been talking about, so why would the city co-finance someone who needs a nanny for two hours in the evening if he wants to go to the movies and wants his nanny to have children, that's something that's my commodity issue, but then I have to pay for it. Therefore, I think that the vouchers will occasionally and temporarily engage the babysitters in a very different manner, let's say some kind of childcare and care for children in an 8-10 hour period than parents do and this one occasional and temporary care that parents can also afford, and then there is no way that neither the city nor the municipalities should be involved because unfortunately we are not so rich in any city that we can finance it. As far as family centres are concerned, the fact is we don't have them in two counties, as there are more serious reforms in the welfare system. So far, there won't even be any filling up further family centers. However, with existing capacities, we will solve nanny coverage in a way that will work out those family centers that are closest to your place of residence, which means that family centers will, for example, be. in the city of Zagreb to cover and ring this Zagreb County, in which e.g. There's no family center so now we're going to cover with family centers all of what the law says to them right now and just something very short on supervision. So we are still obliged, given that some of the things in this law have been formally written down, we are obliged, of course, to carry out certain surveillance, but one of the best supervisions will still be parents. You must know that this relationship between parents and the nanny is therefore voluntary. I'm the parent who chooses who's the woman who will look after his child. That's how it's going to be in the future, so parents know who they're giving the baby to. Usually they ask around, we're not New York, we're small environments where everyone knows each other, everyone knows. So I think that in that part, what's the best quality of supervision we can have along with this institutional one will be the parents who are in the interest that this child really is with the person who's going to take good care of his child. Here's so much about these things that were here in the debate. I thank you all once again for your arguments and I'll see you in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27647	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Prime Minister. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first one's a respected representative of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27648	Thank you very much. Well, Madam Minister, I was glad to actually hear this about the obligation of the local self-government unit. You said that of course you couldn't order it to require social sensitivity, etc. However, in this law, it says that they are obliged to subsidise, so whether the citizen or the nanny, either the parent has the right to demand his right under the law, and the constitution says that the incomes of the local and regional self-government units must be proportionate to their powers as provided for by the Constitution and the law. This is a new law which imposes some additional work without discussing the correction of the income of units of local self-government and has not consulted the Alliance of Cities and municipalities, which is also an obligation under the European Charter of Local Self-Government to discuss issues when touching the rights or obligations of local units, both the Union of Cities and municipalities. Similarly, this, this control thing, of course, will control and watch where the children are given, but I think that the institutions of the state are obliged to help the parents ensure that this service is quality, professional, etc., as it does in kindergartens when it provides children with that care and absolutely agree, I forgot that these organisational forms through which the nannies work really seem to me to be through the craft most appropriate and certainly this one, too, that I also colleagues of Šimac-Bonačić on vouchers is excellent and I hope that you will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27649	Thank you very much. Is the Deputy Prime Minister at the end? Thank you very much. Both the second replica and the esteemed representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27650	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I was also going to say that it might be good to send a memo and an alliance of cities where your President, Mr. Mayor, the President of the Union of Cities, as well as the municipalities, should give their opinion to the Committee on Local Self-Government, let them jointly determine whether it should stand. They're bound and mandatory or that they can finance, so let them decide for themselves what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27651	Thank you very much. And the third replica, the esteemed representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27652	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One of the main reasons for the introduction of this law is the introduction of order in the gray labour market and, in general, the area covered by this law, which so far, has not been even covered in any way. Since how much dilemma has emerged here with crafts and companies and that one version and another version has a lot of weaknesses. And since the solution that you have just mentioned is just ahead of you in temporary and occasional affairs, this is purely a suggestion, maybe you can still analyze some solutions from the outside and not go too quickly into another reading, given the waiting of this law, and possibly some other solutions from the outside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27653	Thank you, too. We heard everything. I'm closing the debate on the proposal for a nanny bill in my first reading. We'll vote on the proposal when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Nanny Act, first reading of PZE No. 214 The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for the Nanny Act 1 is hereby adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions shall be made to the Proposer in order to prepare the final proposal for a law Please make a statement. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I find it unanimous with 118 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27656	Here's a very short one. So this is about harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. And I can only say that with this extension, she's trying to motivate her fathers to participate more in this parental leave. And I will say very briefly that this law first and foremost harmonizes the rights of employees and self-employed pregnant women to use one single day per month for the purpose of conducting a prenatal examination, to prescribe transferable and non-transmitted parental leave and the conditions for the use of parental leave only by one parent, the duration of adoption and parental leave for adoptive parents shall be equal to the duration of the adoption leave, regardless of the age of the adopted child and, in accordance with the changes in the right to apply parental leave, shall also be prescribed in respect of the total level of those rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27657	Thank you too, Deputy Prime Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the first club of the HNS and respected representative Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27658	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Recently, the U.K. Minister of Health or Health announced the introduction of additional beds for fathers into maternity homes throughout the country with the intention of encouraging fathers to engage in the life of a child from the first minute of his life. The minister’s decision, which would otherwise be set aside by 25 million pounds, was based on numerous research and with the intention of creating stronger links not only between children and parents but also those between parents. He believes it will help that mothers do not feel isolated and fathers disfellowshipped. This is now being debated by politicians in the UK, and first-country experts who introduced the paid mandatory parental leave for their fathers, argue that the fathers who take parental leave will live longer. According to a Swedish survey of 72 thousand fathers, 2 months of parental leave say they lower the male's risk of premature death by as much as 25%. The reasons why it is so not quite clear, but according to one theory, men who are closer to children will take better care of their health, drink less, live perhaps less stressful or riskyly, they will be healthier and are more often said to visit a doctor. Swedish experts thus argue that encouraging men on parental leave can reduce gender gaps in longevity. In fact, now the average life span of men, as we know, is 5 to 7 years smaller than in women. That's the case with us, unfortunately or fortunately. There's only three of you, or there's four of you. Today, in Sweden, more than 85% of fathers use part of parental leave. Don't be angry, Honorable President of the Parliament, this was more like breaking this evening's maybe boredom. Therefore, the fact that the percentage of fathers in Croatia who used or used parental leave is measured in prominence shows that the promotion of gender equality requires much more work not only in the public sphere but also in the family sector. In fact, we don't even need statistics to see what the number of fathers who use parental leave is. It's enough to look into the neighborhood, friends, acquaintances, friends or acquaintances who have recently become parents and to see that they're actually almost gone or very, very rare. The benefits given by the Government in 2011 to parents to amend the law we are discussing today by adding, among other things, two months of parental leave if a father is with a child for at least 3 months a year, increased the number of fathers on parental leave but no significant changes happened. We hope that these additional changes will change, and we in the HNS will closely monitor the impact of the law on parents' decisions. And if the next period shows that these opportunities passed by the law, they did not encourage fathers to use parental leave, we will suggest that parental leave be made mandatory for both parents in at least one part. So bound for both mother and father, both for mothers and fathers. We are aware that today's fathers do not have a very long tradition in the role of parents responsible for raising and caring for children and household jobs because their traditional role did not involve that kind of responsibility. Accordingly, they have no experience of previous generations to rely on, but they do not have a burden of the past in terms of experiences of these earlier generations and patterns that they may or should follow and therefore have the opportunity to build a relationship with a child with openness and enthusiasm that is characteristic of each new beginning. We think that taking on the child or child care work from day one will significantly reduce conflict and dissatisfaction among partners because of the mother’s feelings of overwork and father’s feelings. Actually, it's a feeling of misunderstanding. The first year of a child’s life, the time after a child’s birth, is a clear time of greatest happiness but also a very stressful time for parents in which marriages or extramaritals often fall apart. We therefore join the recommendations of those who want to encourage their fathers to decide that since birth, they have taken part in the responsibility for taking care of the child, for its growth and development, and that decision would mean respecting themselves, their needs, integrity and integrity, and respecting the integrity and integrity of the child and respecting their partner. And spent time with your child, the experience of his daily successes, growth and development, and all without the stress of a job is invaluable. And so, Dad, try this part and we believe that you'll be very, very happy about it. Just as the lives of women and men change, we see it every day. Relations on the labour market and in the family are also changing. Although men today work in a house more than 50 or 100 years ago, researchers find it to be a slow adaptation process, i.e. that men and women negotiate more slowly on the new distribution of home affairs than women enter the world of work and that is to the harm of women. There is still prejudice to put the problem, work, family as a woman's thing. On the other hand, family law but also common common sense determines that parents take care of children and children equally, together, and mutually. Supporting children is also a duty but also a privilege of parents and therefore even discriminatory towards fathers can be considered to be some of the existing provisions or prejudices that commit the mother and give the father the opportunity, as if in this most difficult but even most beautiful job in the world, which is being a parent father does not have the same right as not having the same obligation. Although deciding whether or not someone wants to become a parent affects a whole series of factors, this one is certainly not one of the key factors about maternity benefits. We believe that, in part, it will contribute to the creation of a positive atmosphere towards and among parents, parenting and children, this proposal harmonizes our legislation with European legislation, retains the existing level of rights and improves the possibility of fathers. We're not binding them for now. Although in an ideal society, in which gender equality would truly enjoy parental leave, both parents would benefit but processes, shifts in improving society are taking place very, very, very slow and small steps. We think that this amendment of the parental support law is a small but yet significant step in this direction and therefore the HNS Club will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27659	Thank you very much to the HNS Club and to your respected MPs. It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and a respected representative. Excuse me, excuse me, comrade twilight. We have a single replica reported. Honorable representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27660	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I announced myself right at the beginning when there was an introductory exposure from a positive experience from Europe, although it sounded nice. I don't know how far we have it, I'm afraid that by light years, but you've made it perfectly clear that it affects the stress and the extension of the life span of both parents, especially then you've apostrophe in that part. I think that both the stress and the extension of life span would have a very nice impact on employment, okay. This law will not solve this, but it may consider the idea to say the right to family benefits and maternity leave and all that goes with the achievement of both the unemployed, or the unemployed, both. Yeah, yeah, but that's what you said, for example. to spread that story. Yes, thank you very much. Yeah, yeah, but in this part of who it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27661	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is now indeed the turn of the HDZ Club and the esteemed representative of Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27662	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister with Associates, Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here is the proposal today for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on maternity and parental support. I think it's a good thing that we talked before this law today to this proposal of the nanny law even though it could have been the other way around because it binds to each other. I have here the Constitution and Article 63. The constitutional provisions of the Republic of Croatia set out for the special protection of motherhood, children and young people, as well as the creation of social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life, and special attention is given to the protection of parents and parents. All measures in the field of family, population, health, tax and economic policies should in reality strengthen the family in fulfilling its unique social roles and provide support for child care. Why? Here are a few sentences, namely about our demographic situation. We know that the Croatian people in the past have been through many difficult periods of mass eviction. This is what people from the island of Dalmatia know very well when traveling across the Atlantic from 1990 to 1914, then there were two world wars from 1915 to 1918, from 1941 to 1945, and different epidemics, for example. Spanish flu from 1918 to 1919, and temporary economic emigration to Western Europe from 1965 to 1975 and similar when our Croatian people were really at risk, and its survival was at stake. Let's just think of the freshest and most painful times in the lives of the Croatian people, which is the Homeland War. We can tell a whole generation that she's gone unrequited. Demographic depths in the 21st century are primarily demographic because of a reduced and decreasing number of live births, and an increase in the number of deaths. The reduced number of women is fertilizing and especially at the most fertilizing age. A lot of women, however, have to say by research that an increased number of women give up having children. Families are in a difficult position, in one word, no longer, demographic aging has occurred. In 2003 there were 39 thousand 668 newborn children in Croatia, in 2010 there were 43 thousand 361 children born, and in 2011 41 thousand 197 live births were recorded. In 2011, 51 thousand and 19 inhabitants died at the same time, which means more dead than born. There were 9,000 822 people in that year. The birth rate was 9.4% and the mortality rate was 11.6%, so the natural growth rate was negative in 2011 and it was minus 2.2. In the city of Zagreb, there was a positive natural increase, and in all other Croatian counties it was negative. The biggest negative natural increase was in Sisak-Moslavina County minus 1.81. Positive growth was in 101 towns and municipalities, negative in 445, while 9 had zero natural growth. The alarming situation of that year was especially on the Croatian islands. What especially affects this fall of birth? We usually divide these factors into demographics, it is a reduction in the number of women in the fertilized and most fertilized age, making a decision on the creation of offspring, at an older age where significantly greater infertility of women and men, then the lack of women who want children and non-democratic ones primarily refer to the instability of certain social structures and institutions, families, marriages, social crises in the wider community, young people are jobless and it is difficult to address their living needs, solve their family needs because there is no material security in any way. Then ambitious young people very often place a priority on the completion of the university, buying a new apartment, buying a new car, and only somewhere in the last place come children, and in recent times unfortunately, the desire of these same young people has been strengthened to leave the borders of our country. Croatia lost a city slightly larger than 10,000 people last year. Therefore, this law, as well as the laws before that, is important and important for the purpose of a population policy that should be a first-class political issue for all governments, and this is because of the growing birth rate, as well as the stimulant migration that we can expect especially when the borders are opened and when we join the EU. In 2006, the government for the first time commissioned a scientific study of the fundamental features of the demographic development of Croatia, the balance sheet of the 20th century, but for the first time in its history and adopted and legalized the population policy programme in 2006 and this document of national population policy is still in force today and we hope that there will be a new programme of national population policy. It is precisely the Law on Birth and Parent Support that one of the most important ones that came into force on 1 January 2009 included in its content all the basic rights of employed, self-employed, unemployed mothers and parents concerned maternity leave and benefits prescribed by the Labour Act, the Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out the independent activity of unemployed mothers, and, in addition, a completely new way of applying all rights and rights on adoption leave was prescribed in the law. This law, which is still valid, gives birth benefits to most parents who help them to cope more easily when their life costs are almost doubled because of newborns. Although it is not any addition to parents' incomes so far, it is an amount that substitutes the mother's net salary over a certain period. I'm not going to, I'm not going to list what's set out by this law, because we've studied it together, but I'd say that then one of the major papers of the law was then also sharing leave on maternity leave, so this maternity leave is a leave in the first six months and on it is continued parental leave which is much more flexible and could be used until the eighth year of the child's life and then for the first time there is involved and the fathers in the family life, i.e. to protect and raise their little child. Today, we have a law and a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on maternity and parental support. This proposal amends the existing law in the section relating to the duration of parental leave in order to comply with the provisions of Directive 210/18 of the European Union and the part of the equalisation of the duration of adoption and parental leave for adopters because of the proposal's opinion that it will improve the adoption of children. The leave after the child's birth will take 14 months, 6 months will continue maternity leave, and parental leave from today's 3+3 will increase to 8 and 4+4 months, respectively. However, the father will be able to transfer half of his parental leave to his mother. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 2 of the proposal of this law discusses salaries on parental leave, and it states that it can be more full-time, cannot be more than 80% of the budget base per month. We were kind of hoping that you'd... fees so that they will be 100% but I'm sure at some good time when there will be money that will also happen because we see what it means to do a good Law on maternity and parental support. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] Something else I would like to say, and that is an objection by the Advocate General to persons with disabilities, which we will also support in the HDZ Club and this law, of course, as referred to in Article 45. This law and let me just read a little bit more about it since I'm not a lawyer and what the D.A. warned and I think it's absolutely right, that the appeal, so that's paragraph 3. The 45th Canka does not delay the implementation of the solution and that administrative dispute can be initiated against the second-degree solution. But what's going on? The automatic mother or parent must return to work when the administrative dispute is started afterwards means it takes a while to expect them to get an administrative dispute. But no matter what she might get, some cash compensation for this, but the loss she had to go to work and not have someone to leave her child to, it's irreparable. So here's what we're proposing, and we're asking that we think about it, and that these proposals be adopted equally by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. Thank you very much, and we will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27663	Thank you, too. The next Club of Representatives is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia Club and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27664	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister of Associates. At the outset, Sonja spoke of examples of how she was actually promoting, or how her fathers were encouraged to take part in the maternity work, so I'm just going to relate to yours. Namely one Swedish minister has just taken two months off the one hand to help a wife to go to work then and on the other hand to show her example to a colleague and you have seen how much Sweden has, in fact, how many fathers take that maternity leave, and even the Ministry of Justice take new fathers four months at a time but that's Sweden. Let's go back to our Croatia. So this law actually comes in line with EU legislation with EU Council directives on parental and maternity leave. We hold these changes to protect motherhood, to actually facilitate family coordination with professional obligations, to give the possibility of greater participation of fathers in these first beautiful days of raising children. Therefore, according to European regulations, the minimum duration of parental leave is extended from three months to four months for each employee and only employee, so that is eight months. Of course, it regulates the inability to carry two out of those four months. It's usually passed on to the mother, and it's precisely a tendency to involve the fathers in those first days of the first year of the child. It is actually an incentive for men or fathers to be participated as early as possible. Our data, we heard and my predecessors say in Croatia that birth leave is only 0.34% and parental only 2.4%. But what reason is that? Well, the reason is that the fathers are more paid in Croatia and, of course, with most young families, which is normal finances actually dictate the use of parental rights. Therefore, I repeat that the possibility is given even though these two months are taken, fathers if they take those two months, means someone stays with their babies for 14 months, and if you give two to your wife and don't use your parents, then they're with the child, or the mother is with the child for a year or 12 months. I also hold the burden of parenting, say the burden, but on the other hand, the beauty of parenting, because these are still the most beautiful days, should be evenly deployed. The roles are often considered who is closer, who is more needed in the first year. I'm saying the stakes are different. But the roles are very complementary. Namely, the role of father she is not only to take care of that child, she is certainly and helpful and gives one emotional safety to her mother, she is supporting her mother in those moments. Thus, it also indirectly acts on the welfare of the child. We must, of course, express here, all of us agree that the larger fees, or larger financial allocations, for compensation, will also better stimulate the participation of fathers. We are witnessing that those lucky ones who have been with their young ones, they have wonderful experiences, and it certainly seems very, very positive about the relationship between a man and a woman on family relations. Another important change is actually the equalisation of the duration of adoption and parental leave for adoptors regardless of the age when the child is adopted. It is a good incentive for adopters, because we know that in Croatia we have a very modest adoption, or very little of all about 150 adoptions in a year. Not to say it was in the past, but it's enough to say that it's even enough because it's a very good stimulant for adoptors. The further amendment refers to the determination of the date of expected birth. The proposal is for a doctor of gynecology from compulsory health insurance. Madam Minister, you might want to think about a private gynecologist. We're very good at suggesting that. And before that, it was in the past law that the choice was done by Dr. General Family Medicine according to the findings of the selected gynecologist. This is how we cut short unnecessaryly, it didn't make any sense before. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the SDP club support this bill in amendments to the Law on maternity and parental support, which is a step forward. So it was able to comply with European legislation, a framework was created to encourage fathers to participate according to their work obligations to be with their children because it is a very important quality relationship for both mother and father. Of course, excellent changes in the retention of the existing level of right with the incentive of foster care are excellent. I hope that the fathers' incentive will be much greater when economic conditions are created that will allow for higher amounts and benefits. It would also be good if, at first, at least two weeks of fathers stayed with the child or the mother and child when the mother was most sensitive, but of course it goes to HZZO's burden. Here's hoping for better times to please things like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27665	Thank you, too. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and Honorable Representative Nancy Tyrelli. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27666	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll be really short. What I don't think we've heard in the debate so far is that this bill is actually in line with Croatian legislation with EU legislation, and it is also a reason to talk about maternity and parental benefits. With this bill, we prescribe that portable and intolerable part of parental leave and those conditions for the use of parental leave rights by only one parent. Thus, apparently fathers should be involved or at least encouraged to raise a child at his earliest age, as we read in the interpretation, it would certainly contribute to breaking up some kind of stereotype about a mother as an exclusive parent who can and knows how to take care of a child. It would be good and instructive to explain in the bill’s proposals that the law will contribute to something that is then cited by so far statistics, for example. how many fathers have so far used parental leave in Croatia after some years, to make a quality monitoring. I think we would certainly welcome it, given that we want better and differently, and then we would certainly benefit from proposing any laws because it is truly unfortunate that we have all possible data from England, from Sweden how many fathers, and how many fees, how many days of maternity leave, and that we don't have for Croatia. And what is most important is this law we still bring for us, not for anyone outside Croatia. So I think that it would certainly be desirable and good when laws are passed, especially those laws that we compare with what was and we argue that the amendments to the existing law will bring about a improvement then it would be good to have some data on which we could support some kind of analysis. What I managed to find was that in 2011, the right to parental leave in the Republic of Croatia was used by about 1350 fathers, which is a small increase compared to a few years ago. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth announced or announced changes to the laws that would introduce mandatory parental leave for fathers for at least one month and all with the intensity of increasing the father's role in the first months of the child's life. In the Republic of Croatia, only 3% of fathers were now decided for maternity leave, while the European average is 30%. As much as I want to contribute to the fact that fathers are more participating in the earliest education of their own child, I think it is good that the ministry has not brought about changes in terms of the mandatory use of parental leave for our fathers to leave it to the family, to leave it to the agreement between our mother and father because, given the situation and the everyday life in which we are alone, they know what is best for them and what is best for them, and I think that in that previous law when we discussed it, we heard from one of our colleagues that times are still changing, and I think that we are all witnesses and that more and more young fathers are still present and giving birth, that today they help their wife in raising children more than they used to be, and yet that these up and long-term stereotypes are slowly changing for the better. I will certainly use just one more sentence to praise that adoptors identify with parents and have the exact same rights in using support. Someone once said it would be stimulating to adoptors. I have an opinion, I think that parents who are five, six, nine, ten, or I don't know how many years in the Republic are waiting to be adopted and if after that long they get a child for adoption and that they would even be happy to agree and that the state doesn't give them any support and that they absolutely don't ask for anything because then they absolutely don't need anything because they got to adopt a child that they've been waiting for so long and I even think that unfortunately the vast majority of them would be fired, removed from work and be home to that child they managed to get here after so much trouble, but in any case for those who want to be adopted and have the same rights as parents anyway commendably. The Croatian Labour Club will support this bill regardless of colleagues' statements but it is clear who is the head of the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27667	Thank you, too. But we still have one replica. Honorable representative Đurjica twilight and replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27668	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. This replica is only commendable because another way we don't have, so I wanted to tell this colleague Tyrell that as usual, there are really debates as they should and should be in this House, but as far as the pay is concerned, I think it's decisive who will be using both parental and maternity leave, because if the mother has a higher salary, of course she will use it especially for the first six months when she gets full salary, and therefore somehow we hoped that these other six months would happen just as well to secure the funds so that she and the other six months would be full pay. But I guess at some better times than you said, it might take a little harder to fight it, to have courage. That's how I remember those, 2006, 2005. Well, here we have the Family Ministry, which might not be bad if we had it right now, because really the family contains all the components in it, and I think that some things could be handled a lot simpler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27669	Thank you, too. We're moving on with the club debate. It is up to the HDSSB Club and the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27670	Here's a thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, the Ministry's representatives, for a short while. Since we don't have a single woman in the Advocacy Club here, I liked trying to get along with my predecessors, here's what we're going to do to make it, when we have a 10th, 15 MPs, there's going to be an MP. So I agree briefly and quite well with what President Sumrak was saying about the problem, in fact, about the population problem Croatia is facing and I think that in fact no government has ever been able to relate enough to this problem and that no policy has really dealt with it. No population program or previous programme has been successful so far. This is the case with clear statistical indicators, including a new census. We make this bill the way we support it. There are certain steps that are in the spirit of time. Nothing changes more, but the part that's being corrected is acceptable to us. No, I have three children, and I think it's luck for the family if it's an opportunity for a mother to breastfeed those children for 12 months if it's possible and more and I don't think a mother is raising a child but being raised by parents together, so, therefore, part of this rhetoric in some predecessors isn't part of my worldview, but everyone has a worldview, so please. What I think no one really dares to touch and what is really most of the family. It's not a problem if a father is going to be a month or two on maternity leave or a maternity leave or whatever you want, but the problem is that these other six months receive 2600 and something kuna that some predecessors also mentioned. So let's see us as a society and as a government or as a responsible group of people if we have that power to invest certain funds, that will be a real step. And it's not going to be a real step if the fathers are going to be 2 months or not for 2 months, and if I don't know these are things that won't really change a lot, it won't affect the parents' decision to have children or to make it easier for them in one way, but we're going to cancel out first those restrictive provisions that pay 100% of the salary but are limited by some kind of budget base, which is unfair to those who have higher incomes. And these other 6 months also where as a 100% salary but when a budget base is set... the basics then are those amounts immeasurably small and insufficient for a young family that this child can provide quality supplies, that he can wear it, that he can buy all the supplies. It's a problem for a young family, and it's not a problem for a young family whether the father will be two months on maternity leave or not. This is a social norm that is fine but the real question here is whether there is a possibility of a little bit of deregulation of some of our social standards and that some of the categories that we support are exorcised if rights are needed, and that we focus on what might really be significant for this society, which is the number of newborn children, population structure, age structure, population policy and even some kind of survival of people in this space. So, we're going to support the club like this and in the second reading we're going to give the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27671	Thank you, too. We've exhausted a list of clubs reported for discussion on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It's the Honorable Agent Zeljko Reiner's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate on this subject. Next is Commissioner Dunja Špoljar. She's gone. She's losing her right to debate on this subject. Now it's an honorary representative, Anna Lovrin. Here are the honourable MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27672	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam of the Ministry, I assume Mrs. Maya Sporish is the assistant minister of social policy and youth. Here's something I'm going to say about this bill on amendments and additions to the law that reads it actually I'd say essentially doesn't change anything or changes very little, but that's why this bill deprives citizens of something that belongs to them, and that's one of their constitutional rights, and that's the right to appeal. And that's why I'm going to start by changing the law somehow from the end, and that's article 14, which changes Article 45 of the existing law. What's going on with these changes? The existing law provides that the rights in the first degree are to be resolved by the competent body of the institution in whose territory the party has residence or residence, that the complaint is to be decided by the directorate of the institution, and that the latter has the right to initiate an administrative dispute against the second-degree solution. What changes this law? This law determines that the first-degree rights of this law are being resolved by the institution, and administrative dispute can be initiated against the solution of the institution. What did we do with it? This has made it impossible for the citizens to have their constitutional right, as it states in the Constitution in Article 18. "to guarantee the right to appeal against individual legal acts adopted in the procedure of the first instance before the court or other authorised body". What was the intention and what was the intensity, and why did the promoter suggest this? I really don't get it. Should now the person who requires the right of this law to maternity leave, on compensation when the institution, so the central office solves some right and in that settlement of the wrong billing salary, the wrong information has been taken or whatever, you force that person to complain that there is no one to write on a piece of paper I complain about the solution you miscalculated that salary to me. You're forcing her into a administrative dispute, you're making her write a lawsuit, take a lawyer. And then if we reach out to the latest amendments to the law in administrative disputes, then there we find a provision that made the state think to say that in administrative disputes, each party bears its own costs. So you will now have a person seeking maternity leave or parental leave in which he will receive 1600 kuna in those last two months that she has hired a lawyer to write a complaint to the Administrative Court that when she achieves her right in administrative proceedings because someone has accidentally taken the wrong information, miscounted, anything can happen. And when she succeeds in that dispute, then she is told now go ahead with the costs of lawyers and all those that the party had to bear alone because there's the state confused and she miscalculated something. So, I really don't understand the Ministry of Social Care, which must be socially sensitive, why does it deny a person the right to complain in administrative proceedings about a first-degree solution when there is a number of other administrative procedures? Why is it precisely the law on maternity and parental benefits that cannot be protected in the appeal of...? I do appeal to the minister to think about it and to return to people the right to appeal in the administrative procedure until the second reading. Why did I say that nothing really changes or changes very little? Because the current law also provided for parental leave 3+3 and then if the parent had even been a sharper incentive for the fathers to use parental leave because, under the current law, it was a provision that if the father used at least 3 months of parental leave to receive two awards months. Now what it was 3+3+2 in case the father used 3 months now is only reduced to 4+4 so that those two can be transmitted and you come to the same thing. So if this parental leave is used only by the mother, he is 6 months, if they use it together he is 8 months, with the previous one being a commitment to the father for 3 months, and now I to the father's obligation 2 months. I don't think anyone should be forced on a yearly basis and I wouldn't agree with my colleague König to make a commitment to her fathers, no. It is an excellent provision for both this proposal and the one that has so far been that it is common and that it is agreed on who will. On their family occasions, families will assess how much more favourable it is to them. And certainly when we were talking about a Swedish minister who went to maternity and the English, the British and the Swedish who went to the foster fathers, it would be interesting to know what their birth benefits were. I certainly don't think it's 300 euros in those first two months, and 200 in those additional 13th and 14th months. Now imagine a family in which it is, and it may be a mother with a higher salary or a father, so they will, on their own occasions, assess for whom it is more favourable and such a provision should certainly be kept. So I'm saying that very little or nothing but form 4+4 or 3+3+2 has changed. And one more thing. It's about equating the duration of maternity leave for adoptive parents, of course, I welcome it. But certainly in this argument which says that respecting the fact that, on average, 140 to 150 children are adopted, I certainly don't think it's the reason why adoptions don't happen, this maternity leave so let me mention, and now he's up to three years old of a adopted child's life, six months, and then in the range of up to 18 years, he's been 5 and 4 months, and now he's 6. So show me someone who would consider adopting into the category I want to have six or four months of maternity leave. That certainly is not the reason, the reason is much deeper and I think and I firmly hope that the ministry is working to regulate the adoption issue. Namely, we received information that a register of potential adoptrs was adopted in 2012. Here I congratulate you because it's still a 2004 law that has been found to have been done, and we're expecting a register of potential adoptives, so it's going to be unique somewhere. I don't know, here's what I might get an explanation for why it couldn't be because now potential adoptors are referring to writing themselves all over the country, and it's rude for me to say that I don't know what term she'd use, but they're looking for kids to adopt. So I think that, as the law says, it should be a single register in the ministry, that it should be a single procedure and a unique criterion. And once the welfare center determines the similarity of the person to the adoptor or adoptor that no other criterion or assessment can be important except for the time someone is waiting for. I warn that this is also the EL Dorado for which perhaps unfair actions in the situation when we have in the adoption register 634 persons, and it is said that the average is 140 to 150, but here is the data for 2012 that 84 adoptions are based. At the same time, 1170 children are in nursing homes. Certainly, this kind of disproportionateness of people who would be willing to give home to one of the children who would certainly be better quality than institutional accommodation obviously needs to be changed, something needs to be done and should be put under control of the whole process because this is how it is non-transparent and for those who want to adopt the child, but it is also non-transparent for all of us when we try to understand it somehow, it is hard to go. I'm going back to this law. Surely these months there will be no reason to give up the intention of adoption. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27673	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for a ten-minute hearing. Does the Proposer's representative want to? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support, first reading, PZE No. 241 The debate is closed. In line with the proposals from the working bodies of the Croatian Parliaments, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support is hereby adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions shall be made to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find it unanimous with 118 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27676	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a very short introduction to the Voluntary Law. In fact, it's a form of human activity that basically promotes some values that may be slowly extinct, so people today are turning more profit, how to earn. Volunteering is actually a socially beneficial job, and when we were awarding some rewards, there were some remarks to make for example. Some services may work better if they are professionals, but the Croatian Rescue Service may be good because it is based on volunteer work, rather than on paid work so that volunteering is indeed something that is developing nicely in Croatia and I hope that these changes of laws that will be further completed will contribute to volunteering for this form of work to continue to live in the Republic of Croatia. We were actually through this law trying to make something that volunteer work seemed more visible and diligent than it has ever been. The law provides for exclusively organised or formal volunteering, which means that other types of volunteering were not allowed in some way. It should be said that this law has also been brought into line with the KZ in some of the provisions concerning volunteering. On the other hand, these amendments to the law defined a clearer concept of long-term volunteering and introduced the concept of short-term volunteering. On the other hand, the law is also in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which means that we have provided these amendments with expert supervision and protection of volunteers who are members of socially excluded groups, in particular when it comes to volunteering for persons with disabilities, the Law has also raised standards for the protection of volunteers, facilitated their organisation and implementation of volunteering, reduced administrative barriers to volunteering and provided instruments for the evaluation of volunteering and recognition of competences, skills and experience acquired by volunteering. In principle, we wanted to help the younger population, hence young people who volunteer to apply their competences, skills and skills acquired by volunteering to further education, lifelong learning and employment. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27677	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies, the board of the Croatian Parliament want to take part? I find that not. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the HNS club and the respected representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27678	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I'll be here shortly at this hour. In this year's, but also in last year's state budget, the funding for volunteering has been increased if you remember, we talked about it in the budget, by 27%, which sends an unambiguous message that volunteers in our country represent huge potential, and volunteering contributes to the social and economic development of the country. The Republic of Croatia has no official system data collected on volunteering development or indicators of the economic value of volunteering, but according to a survey by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development in Croatia, only 5% of citizens volunteer, and it is important that elderly people participate more in volunteer activities than young generations. At least that's what the National Foundation for Civil Society Development says. The level of volunteering is, for example, very high in Austria, the Netherlands, Sweden, Germany and others because in these countries more than 30% of adults are involved in various volunteer activities. In Poland, for example, about 5.5 million people volunteered last year. Some 15% of the population, and the estimated economic value of volunteering there is around 125m euros. In the UK, about 20 million volunteers volunteer each year, and there it is estimated that the work done by volunteers at that time is equal to 180,000 constantly employed workers. For each euro isolated from public funds for volunteering, volunteers do work or work worth 30 euros and the economic value of volunteering activities in the UK is estimated at more than 65 billion euros annually or about 6% of their national GDP. But volunteering is an area of human activity whose importance in Croatia as we have said and see everywhere is not fully understood. Efforts taken to assess volunteer work are controversial, so we do not know how much its economic value is, but development efficiency should not only be measured by GDP per capita but also to what extent the quality of life has improved and increased the choice option. And volunteering does exactly that, promotes fundamental human values, teaches tolerance, promotes humanity, solidarity, community, mutual respect, personal and social development. Volunteering takes responsibility. We must therefore find ways to raise awareness that volunteering is an essential component of every strategy that recognises that progress cannot be measured only by economic indicators and that individuals are not only motivated by their own interests, but also by deeply rooted values and beliefs. The raising of this awareness has also contributed to this, but it has also passed the government whose efforts to promote volunteering can be recognised in the adoption of the Voluntary Law in 2007, the establishment of the National Committee for Volunteering and Volunteering Awards for the Year, but also in these today's changes and additions which will therefore be supported by the HNS Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27679	Thank you very much. The next SDP club is Croatia's and respected representative Romana Jerkovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27680	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will accept amendments and additions to the Voluntary Law. The five-year experience has shown that the amendments to the law are necessary because some provisions are impeccable, inconclusive and there are numerous administrative obstacles. We at the SDP Club consider this to be a very important law because volunteering is a valuable segment of action in society and we care about being regulated into volunteering in the legislative sense in the best possible way. Volunteering is all we know is very well useful for both the individual and the society. It helps the individual personally because it promotes his development and development of skills and competences, but it does not matter that volunteering helps gross national income, for example. In Great Britain, voluntary work contributes nearly five billion pounds of gross national income. The tradition of volunteering in Croatia is really old. With the development of civil society and the development of democracy, volunteering has become increasingly widespread and more acceptable. So Croatia on the one hand has a rich experience in volunteering but we keep in the SDP Club that it needs to be further developed and adapted to a broader social context. In this sense, of course, we welcome all the changes that volunteering will make even more transparent, which will deburocratise it, which will promote it in society etc. Today, the fact is increasingly expected of citizens to show initiative and to contribute where it is necessary to put both their time and their experience and their knowledge into the service of humanity and solidarity, in a way that directs changes in the environments they live in. However, while the work of volunteers outside Croatia is highly recognised and valued and sought and is important and we could almost say a mandatory recommendation for any further employment. Unfortunately, in Croatia this is not the case, and this is not the case, and we at the SDP Club welcome the part of the law that applies to the recognition and evaluation of volunteer work, competence, skills and experience gained by volunteering. So, formal volunteer work in employment is not worth it today, but it is somewhat encouraging that the informal evaluation seems to be all relevant in potential employers who view such activity as something of value. Those who view such activity as the ability to acquire skills, valuable skills, and skills that are important for the labour market. The most frequently mentioned experience in this context is the acquisition of the so-called so-called experience. Soft or soft skills such as social and communication skills and teamwork, priority setting, target setting, etc. What institutions should definitely work on. The institutions I think society is generally a promotion of volunteering. We are not a country without experience as I have already said, but certainly a space for improving volunteering certainly does. Research shows that citizens generally have a positive attitude towards volunteers. However, volunteering should, as my predecessor pointed out, be promoted more among young people because just one of the more recent research has shown that they are the greatest skeptics towards volunteering and that volunteering would help them develop or further improve certain skills and gain confidence and self-esteem in order to become trained and ready for various employment opportunities. It may be unusual for us today, but outside Croatia it is even common for companies to encourage and enable employees to participate in socially useful actions during their working hours, and also for free to lend it to their employees associations. So, in short, I would just like to say that the proposed amendments and additions to the Voluntary Law will harmonize the law with EU rules and values, improve volunteering protection, facilitate volunteering, certainly reduce the administrative obstacles that exist today and what we think is very important to ensure that volunteering is evaluated and therefore the SDP Club will support the amendments and additions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27681	Thank you, too. Next is the Croatian Labour Club and respected representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27682	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable ministers with their co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what a colleague said in the Republic of Croatia about volunteering is very old, but it's not worth it. The vast majority of us here also remembers youth’s work activities where we could see very well what it means to volunteer, and indeed there are some skills of life that have been very well mastered, and here it is because of something we have been able to join the EU, and this amendment to the Law on Volunteering is one of the things that thanks to the EU regulations of some value that we have in Croatia for many decades, we finally raise to one level that belongs to them. The majority of volunteers are basically members of associations, civil society organisations and they really do work, invest their time, knowledge, expertise, the ability to do our general good. In Croatia, there are currently approximately 40,000 organizations with no idea exactly how many volunteers and we could say again the prize issue for a million kuna, what is the economic value of volunteering in the calculation of the social gross product of the Republic of Croatia and I don't think anyone would win it because again we started with data from England, again we know exactly how many volunteers there are, we know how many volunteers contribute to the development of the entire economy and the whole society but unfortunately for Croatia we don't have. Although we are all very daily witnessing that we are facing various associations and civil society organisations that are so good for a large number of citizens and for a large number of profiles of these citizens from children to the oldest, from healthier and to the sick. As counterpart Sonja said after some research by the Civil Society Development Foundation in Croatia, we have only about 5% of the population are volunteers, while the Ivo Pilar Institute has reached around 11% more optimistic figures in its research. However, more than half of the population of the Republic of Croatia has been detected in these studies, and this is the sad realization that more than half of the population of the Republic of Croatia is not considering volunteering at all. As a result, such thinking often meant that being a volunteer in Croatia meant being someone who had too much free time and who went from boredom to doing something. It was one solution, and the other was that, so I wouldn't be there if it wasn't for any of it. So volunteering was not considered to be a good thing, precisely because those who needed to appreciate volunteering could not evaluate it or have not been evaluated. I think that as long as there is a long tradition that will also be quite a long process, as long as we don't find a particular model of the evaluation of these volunteers because anyone who works for the general good certainly wants to have some sort of conviction about it at the end of it all. As regards the acquisition of qualifications, given the liberalisation of the market and that and the new management policies in which each employer owner, and especially the party, asks each of its employees to be in a small multipractice. The skills of volunteering are welcome anyway. It's a lifelong learning, no matter what we're not at universities, which we're not in open schools, because we're not at seminars, volunteering means that we've acquired certain skills, and that we could prove that our experience of acquired knowledge definitely requires some kind of confirmation, and I think that we should be very careful here, because in the Republic of Croatia we have to say those big and those small associations. The large ones that are more exposed to the media, certain individuals from these large associations that appear more frequently in the media, unfortunately these are individuals who work in associations, but who hear most of the cases of what they do and are paid, while those small associations that act in local self-government units create a very high value for these municipalities and these cities. Associations that especially work with children, associations that design projects and programs in which this volunteerism and being a volunteer in continuity learn. They stay nowhere undetected and then we get the feeling that in fact they're not doing anything that's definitely not true. One of the bright examples of learning young volunteers is certainly the Red Cross organization where all schools are very good to say volunteer partners where these children really learn from their earliest youth to help their neighbor and do their best to make the community happier. In fact, volunteerism is a personal choice for each of us. Volunteerism is something we are or aren't. Whether we're going to do something with the belief or not, a great majority of us care a little bit, and I think that the vast majority of Croatian volunteers who have really contributed to the economic period for decades and the increase of some of our social wealth that we have and who we unfortunately have never valued, and we don't have any data for it, will definitely continue to be volunteers because it's the simple style and way of life, in this way they live on and on what is the greatest happiness in all of this is passed on to their children because it's simple to say so. Here's the Croatian Labour Club will certainly support this Voluntary Law in some hope that we'll finally start to evaluate volunteering more, that we'll finally start doing some of these databases with which and with this data that we might possibly be able to do at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth in some continuity or on the pages of the Civil Society Foundation in continuity display, I think it would be a wonderful balance of those HZZ data where the number of unemployed at any point is being monitored as it increases, so that at least then we have an alternative that we can look at how much it is then and how many volunteers increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27683	Thank you very much. We will now hear the replica of Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27684	Thank you very much, Vice President. We all agree that volunteering actually increases the quality of society, as well as that it is always two-way, that those who give and those who actually receive, that volunteering is actually real and increases Croatian social capital which is very important for verifying the quality of a community. You're wondering why we don't have any more volunteers. Of course we do, and I agree with you that theirs should be valued, that this is one way of encouraging, but also that we should teach the children volunteering from the beginning. That is why we should take the example of good practice, and that is why I wanted to replicate and tell you that through the Youth Action Programme we had a few years in a row of action, the most volunteer action in schools. So, schools at the county level can open a tender for the most volunteer action and believe it's such a good competition, it's such a good development of volunteerism, and that's why we need to start over to actually create real volunteers for generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27685	Replicate response, Agent Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27686	I agree with you colleagues that we should start with the family, that we should start with the earliest childhood. I don't agree with you in that part, I didn't say we don't have a volunteer enough or a lot of volunteers, all the time I'm saying that we have a terrible lot of volunteers in Croatia who haven't been visible so far, they haven't been recognized, and exactly the characteristics and these volunteers are being self-secret and doing exactly what they want to do, which is to contribute to the overall improvement of the environment in which they live.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27687	The positions of the HSU Club will be presented to us by a respected representative of Višnja Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27688	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with an associate. So volunteering is now being spent through a large number of activities, it is not only an upgrade to supporting activities but it gives an incentive and direction chosen by many, as those who spend their spare time on those who are in need, such as persons with disabilities, older, powerless, children, victims of violence, and those who want to target their volunteer engagement in a wider area of the community. In this sense, volunteering does not represent any new activity, it has long since been recognised in the already well-trapped practice of everyday life, but despite this fact, such a social engagement should have been given a quality legislative framework so that such good practice of social engagement would not have fallen short in view of possible obstacles. This is exactly what the Voluntary Law, which was adopted in 2007 as the first normative act in the Republic of Croatia, which prescribed the rights and obligations of volunteers and volunteers and in order to ensure a social environment in which the development of volunteering is acceptable, implements activities and to legally regulate the position of all legal and physical persons involved in volunteering. The existing Voluntary Law opened the door to a better development of volunteering, but despite the positive experience in implementation, it also encountered some obstacles. It is these obstacles that this proposal amends and complements the Voluntary Law, and I would briefly refer to only some of them in my consideration. Thus, the introduction of the concept of short-term volunteering and volunteering in crisis situations will certainly contribute to reducing the administrative burden of short-term volunteers. As a positive practice of this amendment, we can certainly expect an increase in the number of short-term volunteering and thus the recording of such volunteering. Furthermore, the significant contribution of this amendment and the addition of the law are the following provisions: provisions that prescribe the protection of minor volunteers as well as the volunteering of members of socially excluded groups through the principles of inclusive volunteering, the harmonisation of laws with the provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the provision of professional supervision and the protection of volunteers who are members of socially excluded groups, as well as specific rules on the volunteering of persons with disabilities and the regulation of provisions with special emphasis on members of socially excluded groups of the population, with the aim of their inclusion in society and social empowerment. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of further developing the status and protecting volunteers on the one hand as a more clearly defined obligation of volunteering on the other hand. Such proposed provisions will facilitate volunteer engagement for which the existing Voluntary Law may have created obstacles in certain situations so far. As possible obstacles that could continue to appear in law enforcement, I see the collection of data from volunteers. However, although this legislative proposal prescribes between the other and the criminal sanctions for the untrueness of the data delivered, the question of the availability of information on widespread volunteers, as well as the issue of the organisation of monitoring volunteering records, is still raised. The same important area that is not defined by the current legal provisions also refers to the recognition of the evaluation of volunteer work, especially for young people, in order to make the common social well-being resulting from volunteering more measurable and tangible and to recognise and evaluate competences, skills and experience gained by volunteering. However, in time, we must consider how competences, skills, experience gained by volunteering will continue to be a criterion for the evaluation to be carried out. And I would also briefly refer to the proposal to amend and supplement the Voluntary Law, which will allow for simpler administration, short-term, long-term volunteering, thus opening up the possibility of hiring more volunteers and a special contribution will be made to re-recognizable because I consider it a very important volunteering of socially excluded groups according to the principle of inclusive volunteering, thus giving the group value of contribution to social engagement and a special contribution to the evaluation of volunteering in the Republic of Croatia, which will result in volunteers of their competences, skills and knowledge acquired by volunteering in education, lifelong learning and employment. This fact will in particular contribute to young people as a particularly vulnerable group in terms of unemployment today but also to elderly people, given the possibility of lifelong learning and active ageing. The Croatian pensioner's club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27689	Thank you, too. We'll hear the views of the HDZ Club. They will be presented by a respected representative, Martina Banic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. In Croatia, volunteering began in the early 1990s as part of humanitarian aid in the areas affected by war, to help victims of war, exiles and refugees. In the second half of the 1990s, the establishment and organisation of civil society began to develop more and more after 2000. In 2007, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Voluntary Law as the first normative act in the Republic of Croatia that prescribed the rights and obligations of volunteers and volunteers. Volunteering is recognised as an activity of interest to the Republic of Croatia and as a non-profit and unpaid activity or service to which individuals contribute to the welfare of their community or society as a whole. I hope that today's debate will also in some way encourage even stronger public thinking on the benefits of volunteering and increasing interest in volunteering. Since numerical indicators or percentages of those involved in volunteering studies cannot be the numerical state that can satisfy us. I must say that five studies have been conducted in the last nineteen years, but there is a huge difference in results and the percentage of Croatian citizens volunteering varies from only 5%-40%. The results of the volunteering survey carried out in 2005 The National Foundation for Civil Society Development shows that 66% of Croatian citizens are not considering volunteering at all. They are 24% thinking about volunteering but they have never done anything about it, 5% is thinking and wanting to volunteer and only 5% of the Croats are really volunteering. However, it is positive that every year we record an increase in the number of citizens interested in volunteering. I think volunteering is particularly important for young people because it is currently one of the few opportunities to gain work experience at times when we are faced with the fact that almost 700 people lose their jobs a day. By volunteering, young people, besides getting a job experience, get to know new people, develop additional skills, their own potentials and personality, help the local community, but what is also very important helps other people. Volunteering as an activity of interest to the Republic of Croatia leads to improved quality of life so I could say to a more democratic society. Volunteering and encourages the development of some less developed parts of Croatia. The bill that we are discussing today redefines the concept of long-term volunteering, introduces the concepts of short-term volunteering and volunteering in crisis situations. It also expands and clearly defines the concept of organised volunteering, and I think it's very good. The notion of long-term volunteering so far has been a long-term volunteering reference to a period of 6 months now is of at least three months uninterrupted I think it's a good thing that the deadline for long-term volunteering has been shortened and I think it will also be an incentive for many young people to decide to volunteer. So I would like to mention an example of the Special Hospital for Chronic Diseases of Children's Age in Upper Bistro. According to hospital directors, five and a half thousand volunteers from Italy aged 17-70 have passed through the hospital, while the response of volunteers from Croatia is very small. I hope that this way we will encourage someone to make their contribution and love to the children who are stationed and in that hospital. By adopting a new law, colleagues and colleagues will be allowed not only to promote and implement volunteering but also to confirm competences acquired through volunteering in cases of long-term volunteering if requested by the volunteer. And I think that's also good. However, the biggest doubt is Article 21. Final proposal, or Article 27. Volunteering law. This is the article we discussed today on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is intended to verify data in the criminal record under official duty only in the event of a long-term volunteering agreement. I believe that volunteering for the provision of services to children and other risk groups, irrespective of whether it is short-term or long-term volunteering, must ensure that the conditions laid down in Article 10 are met and, under official duty, the verification of persons coming into contact with children must be ensured. A written statement by volunteers that there are no obstacles to preventing volunteering cannot be a guarantee of child protection. Given the fact that the proposed law is in the emergency procedure, I think it is necessary to further consider this provision, which among other things has been warned by the Ombudsman for children. It respects the view that it is necessary to reduce administrative and any other barriers when it comes to volunteering and encouraging volunteer work, but we still need to be aware that children's rights are above all other rights and that children are a particularly sensitive group in society. Finally, I want to say that I believe that we are all in agreement when we talk about volunteering that it is necessary to remove all obstacles and make volunteering readily available and attractive to all age groups. It is necessary to create a positive climate in order to involve as many people as possible in volunteering and to recognise and appreciate the value of volunteering. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to say one big thank you to all volunteers and volunteers in the Republic of Croatia and to give recognition for their socially beneficial work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27691	Thank you. We still have to hear the HDSSB club, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27692	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Minister, MPs and MPs. Very short. I just want to point out that I agree with everything said just to highlight another aspect that the predecessors have not presented, which is actually the concept of recognition of volunteering. Why do some countries have so many successful volunteer programs that are listed? Because they socially recognize volunteering. We get in various candidate procedures résumés and here at the Croatian Assembly of various candidates. None of them even tried to indicate whether there was ever a volunteer anywhere in anything and that it was any item of his resume. That's also the case with employment. That's the case with all the contests. So you should think about whether it is necessary to cultivate illusions that those people who come to Croatia and where volunteering is developed that it is developed and because of their need to do something as volunteers but also because it is recognised as a valuable reference and that it cannot be an activist, for example in NGOs, that it cannot participate in various student exchange programmes, that it cannot participate in some projects of social science or that it can be very difficult or that it is harder to get certain jobs unless you have a reference as a volunteer. That's what we can change, what we can influence. If we and the state and public administration and public services will recognize this as one reference and another circumstance to which you would mention it, it is the fact that a good part of the units of local administration and self-government is still not the municipalities and cities and counties and those institutions that are owned there is no specificity nor desire nor a elaborated programme to receive volunteers. And when a young man hears from me, I will now turn to the young. So a young person who wants to go out and exchange at some social colleges for her is very useful and to participate in some programs, useful to her if she will apply with confirmation that she has done some volunteer programs somewhere. And then this person shows up in some community and city and says I'd volunteer, they say, and there's nothing to do, there's no room for you to volunteer for. When that person says I'd like to do something concrete, but then he comes over there and they give her help jobs to do or they tell her whatever confirmation you need, you'll get confirmation, but don't bother, don't bother people who are already working and they have their jobs, and now you're gonna get involved and you're gonna volunteering with those people who already have their jobs defined. So let's take a look at this aspect in that part of this declarative support that has been present for decades to see what these aspects are where we can recognize as a society. Therefore, even in this bill, I did not notice that a particular emphasis was placed on the obligation anywhere, the duty of those units of local self-government, municipalities, cities, counties and states to organise this to be systematically implemented and to determine the holders of the implementation of those programmes. And on the other hand, I say let's go find a way to ratify volunteers, recognize them, and recognize that reference as something that's worth it, and as something that we'll recognize, not just in humanitarian affairs. So, a good part of the young people with completed colleges if some reference will be what he volunteered for, but did not volunteer by some force of law for 1600 kuna but rather volunteer for certain jobs and some things that interest him in life and his profession, for some few months if it is a valuable reference to him, then we will also be able to make such forms. But let's try to recognize it, and I think we can do it. We will not now turn this into a system of points, but to make it some form of recommendation in employment or in participation in scientific projects or in participation in various exchanges and such. Otherwise, we as a representative club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27693	Thank you. We have a single replica on this debate. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27694	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I just wanted to tell you, volunteering and being a volunteer, that's the call you feel inside you. So not everyone can do that. This is about charity. So you feel for example. That every Sunday and Saturday you have to go around your sick neighbors, make lunch and take it to them, it's a call inside you. It's good to valorize it somewhere. So it's not the same thing as our volunteering when we went to college to volunteer, so we didn't get it written down anywhere, and I don't know anything like that or this for 1600, this is about something else, and it really needs to be rewarded in some way. But these real volunteers really don't ask for anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27695	Thank you very much. With this debate on the text of the law completed. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And the terms will come tomorrow. We'll interrupt the session now, we'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the 11th item at Confirmation of the HRT Statute. Thank you and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27696	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 252. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's up for it? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 117 votes for and 6 abstentions have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Government's representative, the Proposer, to explain the amendments. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27697	The first amendment to the Voluntary Law is a law that we have complied with with the proposal of the Advocate General for Children, which introduces a new infringement provision that provides for the criminal punishment of a volunteer organiser who does not comply with the obligations laid down in Articles 10(3) and 4 or which, in the case where the users are volunteering children, persons with disabilities, older and powerless persons, sick persons or persons who are completely or partially deprived of their business capacity, does not provide permanent professional supervision of volunteering, i.e. allowing the volunteer to come into unsupervised contact with the volunteer. In this way, it aims to provide additional protection for those protected groups of volunteering users through the punishment of volunteers who do not comply with their obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27698	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. All you know about the debate is the representatives of the representatives' clubs. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who is to accept the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment of the government of the Republic of Croatia has been accepted by the majority of the votes, 112 for and 8 abstentions. Amendment No. 2. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27699	It's about a nomotechnical amendment that's being amended by law. In particular, Article 34 of the Law on Voluntary Employment provided for the addition of Article 40, which already exists in the Law on Volunteering.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27700	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment No. 2. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that we are Amendment No. 2. The governments of the Republic of Croatia accepted most of the votes, 113 votes for and 8 abstentions. We have another amendment to the respected Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 34 Deputy Prime Minister of Honor Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27701	So, this article was consummated by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27702	Thank you very much. I'd like the chairman of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27703	... [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-01-24-0.u27704	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Legislative Committee is withdrawn as it is consummated in the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's for the final bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 110 votes for and 11 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
