ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44428	My fellow MPs, I wish you a good day. We continue with the 8th session and in the debate we have - Final bill on amendments to the Excise Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 412 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the proposer, the law of Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac will be explained in introduction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44429	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Taxation Act provides for further arrangements to regulate the excise taxation system of tobacco processing, cigarettes, which will enable cigarettes to be taxed equally in order to increase excise duties and increase the retail price of cigarettes. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wishes to introduce a new system of taxation of cigarettes on the market, which changes the model of taxation of cigarettes, i.e. systematically, primarily due to the reason that excise duties on cigarettes will have to be gradually increased and since the transitional period until 31 December 2017 for the minimum excise duty on cigarettes has been granted during the accession negotiations. These amendments to the law seek to prevent the creation of speculative stocks in order to avoid the payment of excise duty, i.e. to tax those stocks and to prevent the occurrence of harmful fiscal effects for the revenues of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and thus ensure equal treatment for all excise taxpayers. The excise duty bonds of tobacco processing, cigarettes and other persons for sale shall be subject to the obligation to charge and pay excise duty and to cigarettes which have already been released into consumption, and shall be placed on stocks on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, in the event of an increase in the level of excise duty on cigarettes as well as the increase in the retail price of cigarettes, which shall also provide time limits for the inventory, the collection of records and the payment of the excise duty difference in such cases. The question of the reverse application of the law has been removed by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 24. The final draft law allowing for the sale of cigarettes at higher retail prices than those indicated on tobacco stamps in the transitional period no later than 1 November 2013 allowing for the effect of spilling tax obligations on other participants in the chain of sales of cigarettes. According to the new regulation on tobacco stamps, there is no indication of a retail price, thus equating the status of cigarettes on supplies and cigarettes on the market with a new proposal. The introduction of retail stamps will in itself not affect the tobacco processing control system or retail price stamps themselves have had an impact on the prevention of illegality. In essence, both types of stamps fully meet their purpose of proof of paid excise duty and control of the traffic of tobacco processing. Compared to the so-called the regular excise duties referred to in Article 21(1); The excise duty law is further specified that their obligation to list stocks and to pay excise duty applies to cigarettes located on their stocks and outside the excise warehouse. Then taking into account the principle of efficiency and circumstances that they control their basic supply and distribution chain and supplies in warehouses or other premises of the authorised wholesale distributor with which they have completed distribution contracts and in warehouses or other premises of persons directly linked to them. A excise undertaking in the European Union and the Republic of Croatia has primary responsibility for the legality of dealing with a specific category of products such as cigarettes. Cigarettes and tobacco products are subject to restrictions in legal traffic and legal availability strictly regulated and subject to special arrangements and specific obligations by all participants in the legal framework. Therefore, excise bonds are bound by the obligation to ensure the legality of the treatment in the tobacco processing chain towards the EU rules and standards, and must ensure the consistency of tobacco processing at all stages of their turnover, including retailing, and therefore there is no reason not to burden such obligations on excise taxpayers in a tax-law sense. In relation to the area of energy taxation, it is necessary to regulate the area of monitoring of energy monitoring, in particular products that could be used for propulsion or heating. The following introduction introduces a system of reporting to the European Commission if, frequently, such products occur on the market and other amendments have been submitted to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties are to be substantially further no-technically regulated for the sake of more precise norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44430	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. I'm starting a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44431	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are, in front of this crowded Assembly Hall, third time this year, discussing amendments to the Special Tax Act, but since the amendments themselves, it may be more important to mention and emphasize how important this law is for the state budget, because when you look at that tax revenue being 17.4, 17.5% of the total tax revenue or about 11% of the total revenues of the state budget, then you will see exactly how important it is for the quality and good application of this law. And what caused the most public dispute is this provision that is in the law, but later the government tried to amend it with its amendment, which is how to tax, in fact how to charge excise duty on tobacco processing, it should also be mentioned that it is an extremely... revenue from the state budget. In 2012, around 3 billion kuna and 700 million kuna were collected from the base of excise duties, and in 2011. Three billion and 400. So why mention 2011? So maybe this hack, all this stuff that's been done over the past month about the amendments to this bill, is getting really tangled by what happened in 2012, at the end of the year when someone unmistakably printed a cigarette stamp and boasted that in the state budget revenues were increased by several hundred million, saying that it was because the control had increased, which increased the charge. In the first five months, however, it was seen that it was something that simply did not stand, not true, but were stamps, which were bought last year, and which created a lot of supplies but also the unprinting of new stamps created a shortage of certain tobacco processing in 5 months. What the Proposer wanted with this law, so we are talking about the original text of the law without the amendment of the Government, and I will look back on it later. So he tried to introduce what was contrary to the basic principles of the Excise Law. Because if the excise tax code is defined who's a charger and when there's a charge obligation, then try this law to make something different is a total failure. Because if you break the basic principle of law that brings 17% of tax revenue, because if you break the basic principle you have to be clearly aware of the fact that you're opening space and those on the other hand who want to do something that's illegal, which is not good. And the so-called high tariff goods, cigarettes, oil, etc. where tax burden is located and over 50, 60% of prices are very interesting goods for smuggling and for the virtually gray market. So the government tried to do something, then she realized she made a mistake. Then she went to change it and in her standard style passed a law with a limited duration. I don't know what the legal proposal is until that date anymore. After that date, we're going to play a completely different game which I think is not good, it's not smart, and it's opening up again a grey market space, not for increased control and not for increased revenue collection from the state budget. After all, that will show us the time. So, what is crucial in this law and the basic question raised in view of this government's proposal is the question of who is the taxpayer of the excise tax. Because now you would ask ordinary citizens, if you asked people who do business, and especially those who trade with these products, believe me that when they read this law, nothing is clear to them anymore. They simply do not know what to do or who to pay for that difference and who to make a commitment. If one system was the way it was, someone could agree or disagree with it, have positive and good and bad experiences and others, so we should have used it in Croatia, not constantly inventing hot water, doing panic and opening space for some machinations in months when it is safe to sell tobacco products in Croatia because of the tourist season it grows by 30% or 40%. And to play dangerously with this law best shows you if you compare only Bosnia, you don't have to talk about Serbia, you need to talk about a similar cigarette, let's say cigarettes that are at home are often produced and cigarettes that, most often, are seen on tables by smokers. So now I don't know if I'm allowed to advertise and talk about cigarettes, but let's say domestic cigarettes are in Croatia 18 kuna. The same cigarettes are in Bosnia and Herzegovina 12 kuna. The famous cigarette advertised by those cowboys is 24 kuna in Bosnia and Herzegovina and 13 kuna in the Republic of Croatia. So, you're on a pack of cigarettes, I'm sorry 24 kunas in Croatia, 13 kunas in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Excuse me. Thank you for your observation. So if the difference is 10 kunas then the logical thing is that it's something that's very interesting for smuggling and space. I think it is a place where this law should be arranged to prevent these sugars that are at far lower prices from coming to Croatia as little as possible, and not to deal with any controversial problem in Croatia that will always exist at a certain rate. You just can't eliminate them. So, the legislator obviously wanted in the style of what I'm hearing these days, everything was a crime, everything was a thief, but now it's wonderful and wonderful, we're doing order. However, this with a legal solution that suggests that after the entry into force of this law, the new stamps do not contain a retail price just opens up a space for machinations and for various black trades. Because if you don't have a retail price on a pack of cigarettes, you raise excise duties at a given time which of the ordinary citizens will know by the serial number whether that pack of cigarettes was made before the price hike or was made after the price hike or imported before the excise duty increase or imported after the excise duty hike. So, there's a simple space opening up that someone's confusing somewhere, hiding, showing that they sold it and then simply selling it at a higher price, and we're going to argue that someone else is guilty again. So, a law that simply because of everything we knew was waiting for us when we joined the EU was not supposed to and should not have experienced what he had experienced in the past 5 months. Because that we have to agree with, in fact, to comply with EU excise duties by 2017 is known at the time this chapter is closed. Therefore, this chapter is closed I think somewhere three, three and a half years ago and since then we know that by 2017 we have to coordinate these excise duties, the producers know, the importers know. So everyone knows what dynamics and paces are going to be and that's more or less known. Therefore, it is not necessary to talk about someone saying something to someone, but rather things that they need to be done and have to be done, and not to say what conflicts and wars are between some major international tobacco corporations and domestic tobacco producers because of everything that has been going on in Croatia for the past 15 years, so it is a great conflict and a war for a big cookie because if a 3 billion 700 comes into the state budget, then you can imagine how much money the manufacturers and importers of cigarettes get. Therefore, we feel that such a provision and such provisions should not have been passed in law. Since we know that by 2017 we have to bring our excise duties into line with excise duties in the EU, we suggest that once a year, whether it is 5, 6 months, it is known that in that month, excise duties will actually be increased, and then we have practically solved all the problems because no one can load up so much of the cigarette warehouse so that it can cover it by the next increase that it will not have to correct the price, so more smokers know well that when a cigarette lies a little longer on the warehouse, it has the same expiry date to dry up and is no longer so nice and juicy. That's what we ex-smokers know especially well. So that's why someone won't load cigarettes on the warehouse because they'd eventually sew something up and sew it up when they increase the excise duty. So, colleagues and colleagues, I think the government should have gone with this law at the beginning of the year, set out everything that should have been brought into line with EU legislation. I think with these changes to the law with these 360-degree shifts, we're sending a negative message about tax insecurity and instability in the Republic of Croatia. And we're going back to what's wrong with foreign investors when they come to the Republic of Croatia, because you don't need to tell them I'm going to lift your administrative barriers, I'm going to do this to you, I'm going to do this to you, and then you pass a law like this. And with that, don't forget that a large international corporation built a factory in a Croatian town and eventually couldn't do anything, they closed and left. So when you add this to this, then it's a clear message to foreign investors, you don't come to Croatia because we're making our own rules about how we fit at the end of the day, and we can look at it because we're talking about this law and about energy, as much as 25% plus 1 shares of practically INA's management rights in 2003, and how much we get for 7% of the Defence Fund shares, then you'll see that by 7% it's gotten a few times more than 25 plus 1 shares. And that's the same in the package of this law because if you send these messages before the sale of large state-owned companies, then it's clear to you that the price of these companies will not be even quite adequate to the one they deserve. So, in addition to all this, what is happening and with some laws that force leading European politicians not to come to Croatia, unfortunately, one great inconclusion shows. This seems to be a small thing, however, this is a terrible bad message for all who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia because if someone else introduces retroactive tax for a year and a half, retroactive payment, then everyone will be sure that every fat person will think about when they come to Croatia and what tax laws are waiting for him and whether these tax laws mean anything at all tomorrow or in 15 or a month someone will remember and do something else. Because look at the amendment of this law, the government passed this law in early June, so June 20th was sent from the government to the Parliament, and it's interesting that the 26th of June Ministry of Finance only six days after, and 24th of June, so two more days before the finance minister sends an amendment to this law that changes the taste of complete law. So how can it happen if you change the law, the only thing that really changes this is all pure alignment and pure technique, how can it happen that you present such a bill today, and then after 4 or 5 days because of an all-out hack you go to change that law? So, colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Club, for everything, will not support this bill. and you colleagues from the Ministry of Finance will always have full support for the introduction of order and better collection of tax revenues, just think that this way unfortunately leads not to it but leads to something else, which is one big gray zone and one big part of the budget money will end up somewhere else, just don't blame someone else because you're still a year and a half in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44432	Thank you. Replica has a colleague, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44433	Dear colleague Shuker and you have touched, in part, what I wanted to point out and specifically underline in your debate, and that is the question of the number of amendments to this Excise Tax Act and the way these changes are made. A whole new excise tax code was passed a few months ago, the promoter then claimed that he carefully and carefully considered the issue in question and proposed a new law that would make everything very nice. Not two months ahead of us are the amendments to the Law, and this is, in fact, the part and the problem that has already been known to the applicant in the adoption of the new Excise Tax Act. And that's that he actually doesn't like the dynamics of the inflow of income into the state budget. Although he himself announced months before the end of last year that there would be an increase and change of excise duties on cigarettes. Even ink on the signing of the President of the Parliament on this bill has not been dried and the government has already brought and sent us to the Parliament and the amendment to something that has not yet been put into the parliamentary procedure. I think this is the attitude of the legislator and the motionary, this is the kind of conduct of the Ministry of Finance that is extremely worrying. Because it shows that the Ministry of Finance is carelessly and carelessly proposing legislative proposals to manage different criteria among other things and those described by the Minister of Finance at a meeting of the Government in words that I do not think it is appropriate to repeat at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44434	Thank you. Time's up. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44435	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Dalic, therefore you have well noticed that very often it is regrettable that the bill comes to Parliament, practically the MPs have not even seen him and the Government is already sending its amendments or getting... from Brussels that such a law must not go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now there is one question that would have happened if Croatia had not completed the negotiations and that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia had to be harmonised and the chapter closed. Would those who watched, watched, see, one of these moves appear and feel like something is changing in Croatia, that Croatia is ready to change. Or they'd ask each other a different question... and probably informed those they work for, which is that Croatia unfortunately does not know what it wants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if, no matter who we are today, we can talk about who he is and it's easy to say that something didn't happen one way or the other if you didn't participate in those processes. But then we negotiate it, and that's what we know what we have to do, and we need to change the legislation accordingly. And what is crucial in order to effectively implement the law must be passed several months before its implementation for reasons for those who implement it and those who control it to be prepared, ready to implement that law. And that's the only way we can think of the law as effective and good. Because if we don't have enough time to prepare and those who will spend it and those who will control it, unfortunately, there will be a lot of noises, a lot of broken phones, and then unfortunately, a lot of tax violations. The same story was with that famous and VAT on vessels and the same with a limited lifetime. And now you can think of everything on the Adriatic to get everything, winding all Croatian flags on foreign boats which I wouldn't exactly say, but it only shows one inconsistency, unfortunately, and when you don't know what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44436	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44437	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy with fellow colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, it is not doubtful that this is one of the amendments to the Excise Taxation Act which has already been said, but it is also not doubtful that at this point in the Croatian Parliament, as a proponent, certain amendments need to be made, certain additions to be made, in order for the entry into the European Union bar from the legislative framework to be as better regulated in particular in this matter by excise duties, where it is already said that the excise duties on tobacco products themselves in 2011 amounted to 3 billion 473 million and in 2012. 3 billion also made 915 million 173,000 kunas. It is, then, an extremely important item not only of the budget but of one law that extremely significantly regulates one market where we have both domestic producers and importers who, of course, are in a permanent competition. This legislative framework gives all of them but, of course, gives consumers a new framework. And it is quite clear that, because of the need to adopt this Act before entering the European Union, it was necessary to make certain flashes of changes that are certainly causing certain changes, I will not say a disturbance but a discrepancy and certain problems on the market in order to adapt very briefly to the conditions which these amendments and additions of the Law adopt. It has been mentioned extensively in some discussions on committees that this is similar to the Slovenian model. Of course, it should be said that the Slovenian model has been in practice for about 3+6 months. So there was enough time for all those acting on the market to get in line and there were no earthquakes to tell me when the law was passed in a way that all of this had to be regulated within 8 days. An open question has been left under this Law though. The issue of retroactive activity is open. It's a question of the moment when paying excise duty by going out of tobacco products on the market, one of the processes that is related to the Excise Taxation Act is paid, the goods have been placed on the market, and that part of the story is over. At this moment, we are still opening up the space of a possible dispute over whether it is retroactive when all those products for which the excise duty has already been paid have come out of excise warehouses, are located in wholesales and retailes, and that is an open question that is difficult to give an answer at this time but clearly needs to be pointed out. There is also a Directive 118/2008 of the European Commission which clearly determines that excise duty is calculated and paid according to the rate applicable at the time of release of the product into consumption and the product is released for consumption at the time of exit from the excise warehouse. And there is no reason not to say it clearly, and there is no reason why the Government, the Ministry of Finance, clearly knows that this is an open question that certainly will not only end with the adoption of this law, but I believe in good intentions and the Ministry of Finance in regulation with this law, in general, not only for excise duties on tobacco products but also for the need to further specify the areas of taxation of energy products, which are specific in this law and additional provisions relating to monitoring of energy monitoring, as well as for further intervention in the regulatory content of the law in order to align the technical concepts of correcting the non-technical expressive deficiencies which these amendments and supplement, this law is necessary to be adopted by an urgent procedure. However, once again, it is also necessary to stress that there is an open question of this retroactiveness as there is an open question that is defined in the law that, apart from those in wholesale and retail sales, they become in this transitional period of payment bonds and the difference in excise duty that excise bonds that are always, which are or importers of the producer, they can also become in place of wholesale, so those who are owners of wholesale warehouses, i.e. traders and retailes can pay instead. There is no definition of what they can do, whose first obligation is, on the other hand, if importers and producers pay instead of retailing the difference in excise duty under this law, in fact how it will be treated for profit tax. So these are some open issues that I believe both the Ministry of Finance and the Government still have time to adopt to define and correct with their amendments or instructions on how to implement it. I only hope on behalf of the HNS Club that this retroactiveity, which the Ministry of Finance considers, is also justified by its argument that it is not something called retroactively correct because it would not be a good idea to pass another law that can tomorrow be shown as a law that has not been properly passed, i.e. it has brought retroactiveness. It is, of course, a bad message as told to investors, but obviously a bad message, unfortunately, when we pass fast laws. From 1.7. it will no longer be necessary to pass laws by an urgent procedure in this ratio that we have worked at, we have had to bring them, there have been a lot of them, and we really need to congratulate the Government and the Ministry of Finance in really exceptional work and all professional services, so of course I trust both my colleagues and colleagues to you in the Assembly for having been able to read and complete them, not only to discuss them, try to correct them in a quality way so as not to have any further changes and additions after entering the European Union. However, it is certain that this now further process and different way of passing laws that will often be as often as a part of it has gone to the European Commission, but they will comply with the directives, will be aligned with those decisions where there will really be enough time to read quality, but also adapt what is most important to Croatia's life to social and economic because no directive, which is aimed at improving both living standards and protecting consumers and improving the economy. It is never such as to define in every national country the detailed way of implementing what is our future task after entering the European Union, and this task is best done when it comes to two readings and when it is well read through public debate in order to make this directive truly applicable to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44438	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. My colleague Martina Dalic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44439	Thank you very much. I see fellow Gjurkovic, you're troubled by retroactiveness and you say it's hard to answer that question whether it is or not. I think the answer to that question is quite simply given and it is certainly a big problem that would not be if the proposer of this law did not actually change the essence of the excise system. The system of excise duties and taxation of excise duties is precisely its essence that the excise duty is applied so before the moment and the tax is charged before the moment of release and therefore the taxpayers are few that can then be very easily monitored and when the excise duty is paid it is considered that the tax is paid. This law abandons this system, leaving this principle to be applied in all European countries. The excise duty is one of the oldest tax forms. It's leaving to collect a possible month or two before 10 to 15 million kunas that would be collected by continuing this system so that maybe a month or two later. So our bill promoter essentially rediscovers hot water. After the excise duty system in Croatia has been in place for some 18 years, after it has been in line with European directives, we are made up of something new, and the customs office claims that it cannot oversee the existing four to five taxpayers who, as a wiser and paid more taxes in the past year than they had to, and in this year of course, it is therefore paid a lower tax customs service now trying to convince us that they will be able to control an immeasurable number of taxpayers because, of course, they, in retail especially with this amendment, are effectively becoming taxpayers. Of course that threatens one chaos in the system, that threatens one mess threatens an unclear way of competition in which the rules change each day. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] All of this could have been avoided by not touching the existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44440	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44441	Dear colleagues, I don't expect chaos and a riot on the market. Certain problems, of course, when an inventory must be made within 8 days and in excise warehouses and in wholesales and retailes, must be one big job and it is not easy because it does not need to be escaped in a statement and it is quite clear. But chaos won't be because it's a fairly well-defined market where it's well-known where it is and it's well controlled by the contracts of importers, i.e. the basic excise taxpayers with wholesale sales, i.e. retail sales. What you pointed out, I made it clear that this is an open question on the issue of this Excise Taxation Act and the difference that is now and once in fact happening under this law. The rest of the set remains the same, so the way excise fees are paid, the excise taxpayers will remain the same as they were before except for this transitional period that needs to be done by law, this bill of law. Whether or not it's retroactive, I said it, and I repeat it very easily again. But surely neither you nor I at this point can argue because we are not competent to claim certain laws specifically in this segment and the way this law is written. What's crucial is the key thing that we haven't really discussed, which is an illegal tobacco market. And what using this replica, which is that the chaos on the market can actually do is essentially illegal tobacco sellers is something that is the first order of duty of the customs administration and us and the club of the HNS, I personally believe that, especially now, after entering the EU, regardless of this law, it will be even more intense. and to work and to discover and in fact what is essential to prevent illegal entry into the market. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44442	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replica Igor Radjenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44443	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I believe that we can all agree, and my colleague Gjurkovic pointed out this in his speech, so that the basic objective is, in fact, tax policy, for us as lawmakers, of course, to collect these taxes and there is no tax ejaculation and that on that side, and especially in the case of excise high tariff goods, so di di is greater, so that we have a certain order on the market. And that the prerequisite for the functioning of one state and its tax system, but also for the functioning of the whole and its stability, is actually the functioning of the tax system, that the tax is paid by all, and that then it could be planned in a way budgetary, but also any other policy. We can't deny that there's obviously been some kind of disturbance here. That's what Mr. Shuker said at the opening, and you said it again, so some stamps pulled in last year, some products and now they're not on the market, etc. And the Ministry of Finance has simply decided on a move that it can make at this time, which is that, therefore, as much tax as possible is collected in accordance with the laws that exist from those who have therefore possibly tried to outwit the way it is said. And for the good part of your objections to retroactiveness, I agreed to it myself until I saw the amendment of the government which therefore came. And yesterday we confirmed it on the Finance Committee. Therefore, the amendment of the Government which has practically made it possible, therefore, to make this correction to the price of those current excise goods and where it has actually equated the position, so also from the perspective of traders and sellers as well as from the consumer perspective. One small, one small unfavourable effect of this is that consumer protection in these three, four months may not work very well, because the consumer himself will therefore be priced at a lower price to pay at a higher price. But that's what I'm saying is a minor lack of this proposal. The most important thing is that in the future and after this transition of 3 months, the system will function in the way it should function. Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44444	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44445	My dear colleague, I agree with you and what you say as my colleague Dalic said about outwitting, so I must say that this government definitely, the Ministry of Finance and the Government has generally come into play with those who are trying to outsmart especially with taxes, but also with other segments related to law enforcement. Any reaction is positive by the government or here at the Ministry of Finance when you notice the failures used, the failures that possibly exist in the law, the holes as we often know how to say it, and attempts to naturally and in quotes holes, i.e. to miss the law prisons so that there will be no outsmarting. All the laws, we all want them to be as clear as possible with less senseless interpretations, with as little ambiguity as possible, and with these reactions that are related to as high-quality surveillance as possible. So it's not just tobacco products, it's also energy excises. The more quality surveillance, the less space you've said tax evac is something that needs to be welcomed anyway. And the changes that occur precisely because any outwitting of the law is avoided in order to make it clearer and not to be allowed to bypass the law, this should always be welcomed, and in any case we will always welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44446	Replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44447	Thank you very much. My colleague Gjurkovic, what is key to what is wrong with this law, is that we don't know who the taxpayer is anymore, and when there is a tax obligation, it's a key problem, because if we accept what is offered to the amendment to the Government, we stand down from what is fundamental. And in order for the law to be effective, the law must be simple and clear in particular tax laws. As soon as the tax law is complicated, it opens up a space for various tax frauds. It's simply a fact and simply a truth. And the government thought they'd sew something up with this, that God knows what kind of supplies they're now at the moment when excises are going up and if she's going to charge the excise on those supplies that she's going to make some money. It's not gonna make any money, but unfortunately it's going to bring down a system that worked like that, but it worked. My colleague Grabar boasted yesterday how many cigarettes were seized at the border and how many tobacco were seized. So you can see in all the past years how effective the Customs Administration is. But also because of the problem of the border with BiH because of the huge price difference, it is a commodity that is interesting to smugglers. Well, you see, Italy hasn't solved the cigarette smuggling problem yet, because they're so-called. high-tariff goods where the profit is fast, easy, also simple... according to who decides for it he knows why he decided. Or the sense of law-making to prevent this tax evasion from being prevented. But the one who enforces that law clearly needs to know how and when it applies to him. I'm afraid you can't see that in this law. And on the other hand, if you look there in some other articles as much excise duty increases, it's not that big a deal that's why we have to do legal chaos and send a message. Watch what we discuss in the House of Us Just two more sentences, please. [[Thank you very much.]] But foreign investors aren't. [[Intruder: One.]] Not another time in a year we retroactively charge certain taxes, and that's our problem with my people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44448	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44449	Thank you very much, Vice President. I can't exactly say that you don't know. I did, in my debate, also pointed out that the law states that, on behalf of the tax payer referred to in paragraph 12 of the obligation referred to in paragraph 9 and 10 of the article, a tax payer referred to in paragraph 11 of this article, or a tax payer who is otherwise a taxpayer who will continue to be a obligor, is an importer or producer, this raises the question when he can and, however, it is essential that if someone can, if he does not pay the person who is presently under this law if it is adopted, which is wholesalers or retailers. What has always been and always will be is to fight smuggling as you have pointed out, and that is certainly something that the Customs Administration should do and what we will control and encourage and ask to keep reporting us because it is one way to make it as high-quality and to protect the budget and to regulate that market. That there's going to be some kind of mess, chaos higher than a higher price difference on the stamp and prices in sales, of course it's not anywhere to see the price that you write on any item, and that you pay it more expensive and maybe you can pay it and lower is this allowed to be a lower price. However, what is important and now we can commend it again to the Ministry of Finance, which is the introduction of fiscal cash registers. Therefore, at that moment with the account coming out of the fiscal register you will clearly be priced to everyone who buys tobacco products and controls and how and whether it was purchased at a lower or higher price, this is very easy to regulate especially because the fiscal accounts are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44450	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Here are my colleagues, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44451	Thank you very much. The respected colleagues of this proposal are to state that after the adoption of this law on stamps marking cigarettes will be deleted. I wanted to share with all of you actually one detail on the issue of negotiations. One of the things that the European Commission probably objected to in consultation with other corporations is the fact that the stamps on which the price of cigarettes is kept. The stamps indicating the price of cigarettes clearly and clearly confirms to those who buy cigarettes that tax is paid on them, and to those who collect taxes give a very clear sign, confirmation and signal without the need for large administrative control that the tax liability has been carried out. Such a system and such a way of controlling budget revenues as I said did not necessarily like our future European friends and colleagues, and they wanted us to change that. We've made a lot of effort not to, just to preserve both the surveillance system and the control system and make it easier to fight smuggling. However, the government is now leaving the principle here, allowing the price of cigarettes to be deleted from the stamp and it actually opens up the possibility that there are different batches of cigarettes on the market at different times on which one or another tax will be paid. All this truth, the tax administration, customs administration, will be able to control it within its administrative capacity. However, as Shuker said, the meaning of the IRS is to be clear, precise and easy to control. What concerns me very much here wasn't the end of last year's first moment and it wasn't the first time that they changed and increased excise levels. However, the gap between the paid revenue and the discount at the time of the charged revenue as it happened last year has never happened before. The question remains, therefore, how is it possible that the Customs Administration and the Ministry of Finance allowed them to be so outsmarted under quotes when it was not the first time, when there is experience and the way it is done. This again points to a worrying process and a worrying trend for the customs administration to show effectively through this example and through examples of ways in which these laws are amended to possibly lose its professional and administrative capacity. And here are four days before the stop of the customs service of the Republic of Croatia will become the customs service of the European Union. What I want to say in the end is that all these changes that change the nature of excise duties, which change the taxpayer, which introduce ambiguities at the time of the creation of the tax liability, do not serve a better collection of tax revenues at all. Because the promoter is dissatisfied with the dynamics of how the revenues have come into his budget. Last year he was extremely pleased that at the end of the year he was able to collect large and high income from excise duties and then in the first quarter of this year he found himself surprised why the revenues did not come with the appropriate dynamics. However, at an average of 6 months, things are pretty normal. This proposal serves to actually introduce a mess into the system, to reintroduce some of Croatia's innovation, to leave the system again, a way of working that is common not only in us but also in other countries. So as I was saying on the board, I am re-proposing the Ministry of Finance to completely change the strategy in this case. Since it is obviously not able to manage the process when the excise duty is increased. Since it was obvious that the Ministry of Finance allowed producers and distributors to outsmart him in a certain way or perhaps so agreed with them because the Ministry of Finance replied that a large amount of revenue was collected at the end of last year. I suggest you change your strategy completely. It is known and is known that the level of excise duty on cigarettes in the period from next year to 2018 must be increased in order to reach a excise duty of EUR 90 per 1000. About the level of excise duty that Britain today has. Since this is known, given that this process will take place not only in Croatia but in all European Union countries, then I propose to the Ministry of Finance that it publish clearly, transparently and publicly the dates when excise duties will be increased and that that date be around May. If that date is not at the end of the year, it will be during the year, and it will be around May before the tourist season the Ministry of Finance may retain an existing system that works very well and will not suffer from the discount in charge and in the inflow of income into the state budget due to the expiry of the calendar year. This approach seems to me to be much more effective, much simpler, would not require such changes to the rules that open up a number of doubts, some of which are clearly seen and concerned by the ruling coalition members. So I think it would be best for the Ministry of Finance to be in the manner of the amendments that have already been sent to us on the delivery benches and amendments which delete the proposed articles which bring the mess into the system and simply make it clear to everyone and tell us when the excise changes will be. To keep these tariff changes in the middle of the year and the customs administration will have a much clearer control system, a much smaller number of taxpayers, which is essentially the essence of taxation by excise duties. Because if today when the customs administration has its own facility at the manufacturer's factory, when it monitors production daily and visually and in any other way and allows it to be outsmarted, then nothing can convince me that any administrative measures, that any administrative supervision, no matter how successful people are involved, will be compared to the existing system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44452	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44453	Thank you very much. So, fellow Dalic to this, everything you've said that I fully agree with, you can imagine the situation after this law comes into force by state inspectors in some kind of store and now there's a trader because he hasn't changed the price on milk or something else for 50 fines and a mandate and he's dressed nicely. The fiscal effect of this unchanged price is nothing but tolerated by the amendment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to sell cigarettes more expensive than indicated on the stamp because the stamp is nothing but a prominent price. So looking at how goods must appear on the market, this is a prominent, publicly highlighted price for how much a pack of cigarettes costs. So that's what's gonna happen. And the other thing, to convince us that this law wants to increase payment and efficiency is simply a story for those who have never done that job. Well, no customs duties since yesterday, customs is doing this job for 20 years as regards excise duties and there have been various changes to the law, and ultimately this law is in line with EU legislation, with the dynamics until the level of excise duty has to be harmonised for several years. Therefore, they have clear indicators which are effective, which is ineffective, which will lead us to a situation where we have a tax ejaculation because I repeat, let's not forget that in the nearby neighborhood we have countries that have far cheaper cigarettes, and make sure that indicators of how much the price increases affect the gray market far more importers and analytically dismembered importers... cigarettes than that has customs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44454	Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44455	Dear colleagues, you point out by your replicas and discussions, of course, one word called disorder, that this law will lead to a riot on the market. Well, of course it won't introduce a disturbance on the market, as well as in the replica of fellow Shucker, it was clearly said that for many years the customs administration has also been engaged in control and supervision and that this is relatively effective and probably one of the most efficient excise control systems, especially in tobacco products. The only of course open situation that I was talking about on behalf of the club, which was related to possible retroactiveness is not a dispute within the coalition but is this open conversation and dialogue that we have, and that is the most qualitative thing in this coalition that we do not keep neither the figs nor the table, but we talk clearly and openly, trying to find the best and solutions and ways to react as quickly as possible, overwise with those who try to outwit us in a way that we bring as good laws and as good as possible for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, in the debate on the Taxation Act, most of the debates were on excise duties on tobacco products, and it seems to me that it would be best for us not to discuss excise duties on tobacco products because health is working to find us other excise duties that could fill the state budget, and on the other hand, the health system certainly leads smoking and cigarettes to higher costs than we get into the budget, so I use this replica of course to call to be reduced in terms of the use of tobacco products because this is also better for the budget when we talk about the health segment, and it is certainly more correct for all our citizens and health and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44456	Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44457	My colleague Gjurkovic, it doesn't matter and we don't discuss the health effects of tobacco products here, we are discussing economic principles here. The tobacco product here is a concrete example in which I do not know by which times our government sees the economic system, the way our government sees the instruments and the way in which this economic system should be directed. It's always one and the same, it's always a force, it's always administrative surveillance, it's always a surprise. And if we were to discuss excise duties on energy products, I think it is better not to do so because then I would have to remind you and the entire Croatian public that at the moment of the introduction of excise duty on energy products, and that means when we passed this basic law, the government would like to prescribe for the economy a double charge on electricity than is prescribed by the directive. And yet it was one of the bright examples of the Government when it accepted essentially the HDZ amendment and at least allowed and allowed the Croatian economy to pay the same excise duty paid in Slovenia, Hungary, Germany and in all other members of the European Union because our government felt that our economy was so strong that it could pay twice the cost. So then I think it's much better not to draw attention to energy products and... energy products than to stick to the debate on the principles and principles of effective, fair and administratively simple taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44458	Replica, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44459	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, maybe Mrs. Dalic used too often, and it bothered me as well as her colleague Gjurkovic expressed confusion and chaos, etc. Of course that's not going to happen, Mrs. Dalic, you're aware of that, but it's effective in this assembly to say it again. Namely, the system itself we're talking about is pretty well regulated, it's pretty well functioning...... He's just, not the system... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the system that we're talking about is the distribution of ourselves from the manufacturer to this, from the largest producer, we know how well he controls his own business, it's simply such a business that our biggest producer, but also importers know more or less about where things happen to them. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there will be no chaos. The state is more regulated thanks to the fiscal register, etc. And it'll work on that side. What you wanted to avoid is this disorder that you and all your predecessors talked about. So, there's been a disturbance. This government wanted to avoid him. Is that the happiest solution in two, three steps we can discuss, we've discussed on the board as well? There's probably been these disorders before, but we didn't want to avoid them. Maybe they weren't that heavy. They're 10, 15 million? Some estimate is 30 million. So it's not exactly insignificant that government's attempt to include that 30 million kuna so it doesn't end up in some extra profit if we're already bringing in excise duties as we bring in. For the state, the continuity of income is important, and I agree with you. And here maybe it's good for the ministry to think about what you're saying, so that continuity of excise income remains for the next few years, and actually this model, as far as I understand it, practically allows. Because this story will be avoided with a short-term effect on the price that will have a negative impact on the consumer, but in the long term it allows. And the closing line, you called for other people's models. So this stock tax also works in the EU, it also works in our nearest EU country, and that is Slovenia and there is no problem. So, chaos will not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44460	Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44461	The fact that something works in Slovenia does not mean that it is good for Croatia, and this system only works in Slovenia. What are the differences with the Slovenian system now is not important. However, you yourself have said that the system is well-organised and functioning. If that's the way it is, I don't see any reason to change, especially to change it in such an unusual and bad way. There is a simpler solution to this problem. And as for whether or not the disturbances before, you are a colleague of Radjenovic's, I think now a representative in the second term. In the first? Never mind. But you could have followed the previous years of carrying out a state budget and you know that such disturbances to this extent that the Ministry of Finance remained with a fairly low rate of excise duty on tobacco products during the first 4 months was gone. Therefore, the question remained unanswered. How could it have happened to the Customs Administration and the Ministry of Finance that such a disturbance occurred at all when this was not the first case of excise duty increases and when such disturbances had not occurred before. The only answer to me is that it was actually the Ministry of Finance's answer last year, and now it would still want to be on top of what it did last year and some 10 to 15 million kunas to charge a month or two days earlier than it would have charged if the excise duty system had remained unchanged.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44462	We're continuing the debate. It's my colleague Goran Maric's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44463	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So the whole of society is based on the economic activity of a single country, and economic activity depends on all social environments. But one of the most important environments is the legal environment and legal security. However, there is no legal certainty where frequent amendments to the law are and that is not only an incentive, it should be an incentive and, in fact, it becomes an obstacle. We witness frequent changes, changes and additions, additions. Only 3 months ago, we had amendments to the Tax Act, we had amendments to the Household Act, and that law is changing. We've had changes to the Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement, so here's the next point of the amendment to that law. This makes it difficult for entrepreneurs and those involved in economic activity to cope with no matter who or whose government has passed such laws and such changes. Why emergency procedures if they can't be justified? I have carefully read the justification of this law by emergency procedure within six days the law must be passed to prevent major disturbances in the economic sectors covered by excise taxation. If the disorder has already occurred, then the disorder can no longer be removed. If there are other disorders, then at least it is worth explaining what kind of disturbances they are in, how many consequences they are in, and whether this is worth more than a new legal breakdown. I think it'll get more complicated than good. In the very introduction and the words of the promoter, there was the discomfort of the proposer because in 10 minutes of exposure, the proposer had not even looked into the eyes of any MP but only read and looked at the table and had not looked up for one second. I'd be uncomfortable with that, too. A little bit of that discomfort can be controlled in the video. You can tell exactly. My colleague Gjurkovic used to say, I didn't want to replicate it because I decided to speak to him individually, but he also warned in a similar way, but she felt a little uncomfortable in his voice. A colleague named Gjurkovic correctly indicated that there are so-called There's a hole in the law and there's a hole in the law here, there's a fear of retroactive application. Ma should not be used retroactively, let alone different interpretations of retroactive use. Where's the time of the IRS? When's he coming? That can't be a question, she has to be clear. But fellow Gjurkovic holes in the law, no matter what law they are not by product, they have always been the result of the intention. Very rare to predict. Of course, if the law is passed in two, three days by emergency procedure, then these holes are possible and unintended. But the laws should therefore be carefully passed, seen difficulties in which a particular area is located, and reacted legally to be stimulating, not just from a single leap of the corner of the state budget. So we have achieved a unique example in the world that by increasing tax rates, we have reduced tax revenues because economic activity has been reduced. Tax policy and tax system instead of being a comparative advantage for us to change the structure of the economy with this system we have made the tax system and these changes with frequent and supplementary laws put an obstacle to investors' impediment to economic activity. It's about the subject, so I have to state the fiscal responsibility law that envisioned the introduction of fiscal registers any life problem cannot be solved, nor is it possible to talk to anyone, nor is it possible to get instructions. How when the tax rate is reduced from 25 to 10% in the catering activity, how the one who organises one-day trips will charge the cost of breakfast, transportation, road organisation because one has 25% VAT, on the other part there is 10%, and then there is the agent who sells on the beaches who does not know if he can take the cash or not, what kind of bill he will issue, we simply blocked that entire segment of tourist activity. Hundreds of apartments at sea have been built, however, because of the crisis, these apartments cannot be sold, now those apartments that are on companies can't be rented under the conditions under which apartments are rented but also have to be paid for by VAT of 25%. It does not react to solving the problem but always reacts this way to complicate the problem. Why wouldn't a legal solution be an incentive? Because when a legal solution is passed, there is never a question of why it is brought. We ask more times who it's brought for than what it's for. It must respond to economic difficulties. This should not be an excuse for rash and panic reactions, as planned and unannounced. Tax policy can't become hysterical politics, but this is proof that every month, two days, we're turning tax policy here. The most constant policy must be tax policy. Only in this way can we build a system, conditions in which we can count on entrepreneurship, investment, investment and economic activity. The biggest obstacle, the noose around the neck of economic activity, is frequent legal change. That's why it's not good to change every day, and here's a monthly change without an explanation, because the state budget's revenue has been reduced. Well, it's reduced income because there's no economic activity. Let's increase economic activity will also increase tax revenues. Well, haven't we been reacting negatively to excise systems so far, and we've even compromised domestic shipbuilding, and I dare say and destroy small domestic shipbuilding with just a excise approach? It is necessary to be selectively approachable, to see where the problems are, what our society needs, what kinds of activities should be so accessible to tax policies, and thus access to excise policies. Not all of them must be observed from the individual's corners. No one has answered the question today, and who stopped it and who is responsible and why one factory in the Dalmatian town with a rich tradition of tobacco production failed to live in 20 years. No one's been able to say that yet, that's the key to the problem. Of course, monopolies are the biggest evil in Croatia even though some think that state monopolies are the greatest evil. I think state monopolies are much, much less evil than private monopolies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44464	We're moving on to replicas. Here you go, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44465	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I think I really don't see in my discussion the inconvenience I can say before that it was awkward for you to maybe rephrase it to me. In your debate, you have made quite a commitment to tax policy and economic policy, somewhat less for this proposal to amend and supplement the law, so you often mention the impact of tax and economic policy on investment, on the development of the economy, etc. the need for selectivity. So what this government does is essentially analyze needs and selectively, so you know why 10% of VAT was introduced into catering, in tourism, just to stimulate, to help us be more competitive. And this Act, which we will discuss after these amendments and the addition of the Law, means the Law on Financial Business and Pre-determination. Also with its changes is something that adapts to the needs of today's situation in Croatia. And that is what is crucial, unlike the previous governments, this government is trying in all ways to adapt, of course, to the conditions in which we live, the conditions in which we will enter the European Union and work to ensure that the economy is as competitive as possible because it is a priority for both employment and development and for better pensions and for a more social state. And what is most important for the satisfaction of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44466	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44467	Thank you very much. My colleague Gjurkovic, I only noticed that you spoke very carefully and subtlely when you indicated a problem that could arise in terms of retroactivity. And there you were so anxious about it that I noticed that accent your fearsome. Of course that problem exists and you've seen it well. And that he actually performs with this kind of law. This bill of law will cause the problem that you are stressing. With this bill, you tell all the changes, the government is really trying, it's always writing proposals, it's writing new laws, it can't be challenged. The question is always the effect of such measures. Unfortunately, I wish they were different. The effects of measures so far on economic policy are poor. We have an economic downturn, we have more unemployed, and it is announced and planned, and the planned economic growth was in 2012 in the budget, which is why the budget panic has not been achieved because economic growth has not been achieved. We have an economic downturn of 2% instead of economic growth. We now have this bill of law that we get to move prices from the product. I don't see any reason to pass the law by an emergency procedure to get the price off the product. I don't see it at all, maybe you can convince me that the effect will be positive for society as a whole. He won't. More damage than good. Of course, sometimes there's a side effect, but if the benefit is greater than the damage, then it's worth pushing it for. However, so far experience with all the government's efforts has unfortunately yielded 50,000 more unemployed and economic downturns. In 2013 and the first quarter announces that we are going with the same trend, which is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44468	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44469	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you said in your statement that this government's tax policy is a hysterical policy, that it needs the most constant policy, it should be tax policy. That excise duties, we destroyed small shipbuilding by excise access, but you said the applicant was uncomfortable with exposure and you were actually talking about legal certainty or uncertainty for entrepreneurs, which would not attract investors. The truth is, the tax press, the increase in VAT, threats to manufacturers and the retroactive taxation of dividend income, which has been lifted happily by the Constitutional Court, all of which created an anti-investment climate in the Republic of Croatia but also legal uncertainty whose consequences today are very much felt. I'll compare it with the family, when you insult, when you punish children or threaten them, then the effects of what you want will surely fail. It's the same in the economy. If you hold a tax press to a manufacturer of uncertainty, you threaten them as tobacco producers, so who will invest in Croatia under such circumstances. In such circumstances, it is more logical and secure to keep the money aside and not to rush into uncertain investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44470	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44471	Entrepreneurship normally involves the risk but the risk of investment and the risk of recovery of the invested but certainly does not involve the risk of legal uncertainty, it does not. And that uncertainty has to be ruled out. And there's the role of the state to remove that legal uncertainty. But what is the message in Croatia for many and investors, investors and all those involved in economic activity? You build illegally, those who don't build illegally will pay for everything, and those who build illegally will legalize it for free. Is it competitiveness, is it unfair competition or competition? What is the message for others for 5 thousand kuna of unpaid tax will be in prison and someone for 100 million kuna of tax unpaid will be on pedestal raised and exalted as a great entrepreneur. But then we'll forgive him because he has employees. It's like this guy didn't have employees who didn't pay 5,000 kuna. You can't be in such uncertainty when someone doesn't know whether a tax is going to be forgiven or not and that they won't forgive their competitor in hundreds of millions, that they'll be able to pay and someone doesn't pay, that someone's going to have black workers and someone can't have, that someone's going to have rented space and doesn't have to pay and someone has to pay. In such conditions it is impossible to expect a competitive economy. And only from a competitive economy can produce a quality economy and only such an economy affects the structure of the desirable structure of the national economy. We must not and therefore, because of the lack of this overall economic activity, turn the entire tax system into this hysterical tax system and the panic economic policy that responds to each individual change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44472	Thank you. And the replica, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44473	Dear fellow Maric, here and now you have finally spoken of a panic, hysterical tax policy, etc., that the state is only aiming to fill the budget etc. No, I don't. This government runs a really congenital part of politics where exactly through its policy it has determined how many taxes it is, how much it should be, and how much excise duties it should be, but then it does everything it can to collect it. If for you hysteria is what is written in the laws to ask for to be paid, then that's where we differ. In fact, you mentioned that we are increasing rates and that income is being reduced. There's a reverse, but it's more present. In particular, last year there was an even lower rate of contribution for healthcare by 2 percentage points, but the total revenues on this basis which were not reduced in the budget, i.e. they did not fall by as much as 2 percentage points and why, because the payment was improved. Therefore, we have shown that even by reducing the tax rate, or the rate of contribution can be guaranteed the same, similar or higher income, rather than necessarily lower, if the collection is improved, and that is what we have been doing systematically. Is that supposed to be done, so I think it should have been done because there were a lot of riots and taxes and contributions in our tax pay, and we finally decided to change that. So even here when it comes to these excise duties, I don't have a lot of time to talk about it, I'm going to finally say more about it, the goal is who pays for the final excise duty, from whose pocket it ends up going, from the final, final buyer, so the one who buys in retail and cigarettes, and it's time for him to pay in the way it should be at that time when he buys in power. From 1.7. The European Union said and we agreed that excise duty is a minimum of 9.5 kuna, as of 1.1 next year 11.5 kuna, and the buyer buys cigarettes, which must be found in his cigarette box and must be paid to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44474	Thank you. Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44475	Comrade Jelusic, when you mention that you have reduced 2% of the tax rate to contributions to health care, you have seen the effect of this. Reduced revenues based on contributions to health care and recovery of all hospitals and against the budget law 3.3 billion HZZO paid for the losses and resolution of what you did for the reduction, and that only means that it is also true that it was a hasty and panic reaction. If it had been systematically done then it would have been removed and the negative consequences, but unfortunately it must not be a tax system of non-constitution, it cannot only create difficulties, and whether you have now charged or not in a year and a half I know that you are not and that the Ministry of Finance publishes the data as in a year and a half of the tax obligations charged by taxpayers have not paid until today, and not that old payments are recorded under new obligations. Let's say as much as I know what that data is, but there is and growing that debt. So let's just remember stories about the unfair competition of taxis in Zagreb, Dalekvod, about many companies where the Ministry of Finance has now made a debt in many of these companies in the last year and a half. True, less than in previous periods, but let us not say that there is no increase in tax debt and that everything is charged. That's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44476	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Comrade Zoran Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44477	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have to admit that today I was in a really big dilemma, given that yesterday was a debate about the Rules of Procedure, I simply wanted to put that patch on my mouth because if the new Rules of Procedure was adopted by the opposition MPs, it would do so. And maybe I'll start this debate a little differently because this law is part of a single general economic policy, a tax policy implemented by this government, and the results of that policy are a complete disaster. So we have a decline in industrial production, we have a drop in economic activity, we have a decline in gross national income, we have a growing and greater borrowing of the Republic of Croatia, so at this point, we are not yet as Greece, but we are close to becoming here as this friendly country. Somewhere today, about 80% of gross national income, so that's how much the state is in charge. And I don't know now whether the next building there is going to threaten the MPs again because obviously what we're talking about is true, and the truth obviously doesn't like those who are carrying out such a bad economic policy, and as far as King Kong is concerned, he needs to be put to sleep. But we have a bigger problem than King Kong and the fox, which is the huge number of unemployed that this government has raised with nearly 60,000 inhabitants of this Croatia. There are certainly almost a million pensioners, regardless of the return of property, but that with the amount of their income in any case cannot survive that month. And this isn't about health policy, I'll just remind you that maybe two or three months ago we had changes and additions to this law, now we have it again, I won't advertise tobacco products, but the price of these tobacco products has averaged by two to three kunas. I know it's in line with EU prices, and that's something to be told to the citizens. What you've been smoking, you've been smoking, because an ordinary citizen, so the one who's still getting the average salary obviously won't have a cigarette box for that anymore, nor will he be able to smoke that Ibar or Morava without a filter because I don't think there's any more to buy from us. But this law is, above all, scandalous. Here, Deputy Minister, I don't know if you're using tobacco products but you'll come to a kiosk, to trade, you as a deputy minister who implements practically that tax policy on that stamp will write one price, and I don't know how that trader will explain that since the Croatian Parliament passed a law that will be published in the National Journal by emergency procedure in order to fill an empty state register because it is obviously empty, because it would not resort to these measures that are called catching a straw in any way it was 10, 15, 20 or 30 million kuna. But you will simply have to legally explain how one product, one stamp on which the coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia is also one price on it, and you will get one price at that or on that kiosk by the other. It's probably a new chapter in the theory of economics that I probably don't know whether you write it yourself or whether it's written by the Minister of Finance, but obviously it's a complete unknown to economic experts like that unknown and that argument about the Constitution and the referendum. So here I would take this opportunity and first of all advise you to consult, so the entire ministry is really with economic experts. There's not just a question of tobacco products there's a question of energy. And now, even though I've been an engineer of engineering and work, there are some things that I don't really understand in HEP. And I don't think they're clear to the very government of the Republic of Croatia. I agree that we are all for competition both in this market and against the monopoly of Croatia's electricity industry, but it is not clear to me that someone who takes over electricity according to all the existing positive regulations and even on this excise duty law can be cheaper and if it takes electricity than HEP can be cheaper than HEP itself. So that's one question that might really be the question in that Millionaire quiz. No one can really explain that. So they do not sell electricity imported from other countries, but sell Croatian electricity cheaper than the Croatian electricity industry itself. So the question is, what did we do? What enabled the government to further borrow Croatia's electricity industry? Itd. etc. I'll go back to the law first. So this isn't about any kind of disorder. The disorder would have occurred in a month, it would have happened in two months, but this disorder lasts a year and a half since the last election. The result of this disturbance, the result of the government's economic policy is increasingly poor and poorer citizens of the Republic of Croatia not only of citizens who voted for the Kukurik coalition, but also of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The result is an increase in unemployment, a fall in industrial production, a decline in gross national income, a fall in everything that can be measured in one economic policy, except for increasing debt and the duties of the Republic of Croatia, not citizens, but the Republic of Croatia. And finally finish. The question of the retroactiveness of this law is the government's representative, and the government itself points out that there is no standstill in the proposed provisions of this law to determine retroactiveness. So I'm seriously asking you now do you believe that? Whether the product on which the stamp says a certain price regardless of whether it is a stock, whether it is an unsold product, whether you believe that this law can raise the price of that product regardless of the price it writes. I believe that if this law was already a system like some said it was to say good, and above all, the law that was in force was not a system. Because in every system there are the same as in the law a series of holes, then that law shouldn't have changed. And then let's tell the truth and the fact that we're passing this law to additionally collect 10, 15 or 25 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44478	Now we'll move on to the replicas. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44479	Dear counterpart Vinkovic, I will be very briefly replicating one of your findings where you said that Croatia is not like Greece and just to clarify, you were talking about debt, external debt and debt of the central state. In order to avoid confusion, the central state owes €185 billion, the external debt is about $400 billion. So the structure of the debt isn't as bad as it seems to us in the first wave, but it certainly isn't great and you can't see that bar of light at the end of the tunnel when we stop borrowing and when we can service at least interest. Last year, interest amounted to 8.5 billion kuna, and last year, the state owed 22 billion kuna. If we continue this way very quickly we won't mention this, let me mention, I'll experience Greek syndrome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44480	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44481	Well, in some elements, we're colleagues like Greece. So we have a decline in all possible activities, we have focused exclusively on tourism similar to Greece, and obviously with tourism we cannot get out of this difficult economic crisis. Apparently, even this government can't understand that it's an example. One of the worst solutions she has received, and this is what she could learn from the Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany who to start the economy has reduced VAT, we have increased VAT. And then apparently someone in the government doesn't know about that law of a coupled vessel that's right here in the economy. So if you have a lower price then you will probably that product will be bought more and if it is bought more then this product will be produced more. Unfortunately, we in Croatia obviously do not, at least those in power have no sense for such an economic, economic policy that would stimulate the economy. Not to mention the decentralisation that was announced in that famous plan 21 and the rest of the last hole in the play. And that's one of the promises that will obviously never come true. And the fact is, at this point, we're not like Greece, we're somewhere at 80% of GDP, Greece is between 120 and 140. So we still have time, but I can see that we're slowly starting with that Orient Express, and we're gonna get there real soon, and we're not James Bond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44482	Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44483	My colleague Vinkovic, first around Greece and the comparison with Greece, thank God we are not like Greece, but we are not a good part because here for a year and a half, a responsible government has come and a responsible government is trying to rule so that we spend as much as we have and that we are not in debt over measures as we were in previous years when the second government was. If we had created a deficit of 15 billion and created 15 billion kunas this year and last year, as the previous HDZ government and coalition partners created, we would have an even greater debt of 5 billion kuna each year because it was such a greater deficit. No, we said we're not gonna do that, we're gonna cut the deficit, we're gonna cut in debt, and we're not going in the direction of Greece. If she had stayed, the government would probably have gone in the direction of Greece, unfortunately. The other thing, about the price of cigarettes and the price on cigarette stamps that you said was one new that is introduced here, etc., that there will be one price on the stamp, the other on the account or when the buyer buys cigarettes. No, from now on, there won't be any price on the stamps. Therefore, there is no price for cigarettes on stamps. And I didn't need to, and I wonder why there should be a price on the stamp in the first place. Why? Why is it only on cigarettes and not on other goods? Because at that price, cigarettes were a huge share of the state’s income excise duty. Right, but there was alcohol, so there was no price. It is possible, therefore, that the stamp is a sign that goods are in the excise system, that the state is paid excise duty, and how much retail sales will be total and that is important for the state, that part of the excise duty it amounts to for that liter, kilogram or piece, but not what a retail price is going to be. And that's why it shouldn't be. And what's left of the stock until it's sold out, that's right, will be sold at the price of what's on the market no matter what it says on the stamp.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44484	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44485	Well, I understand from my colleague Jelusic that there will be no more prices on stamps. Every day, we will have an increase in excise duties until we reach those 7.8 euros and should be clearly told to the citizens. So, I'll probably stop using this tobacco product and move on eventually to those to say what you can use for personal use, right? No, I mean don't be afraid because then you won't be able to stand with me here. And on the other hand, we can discuss the government's responsibility for the responsible government, trying to get this country out of the crisis, but it remains only on attempts and any attempt by boredom in the past year and a half has failed. And that's the result of that responsibility and those attempts. I don't know what, ask every citizen of this country and you'll see that it is. Come into the store, the prices are up. Go to the gas station, the prices are up. Go pay the electricity bill, you'll see that you pay one 20 to 30 percent more. So, everything went up, the wages stayed at the same level, we don't have any economic activity, we destroy agriculture, we rely now on tourism, we pray to God that every day the sun shines so that it doesn't be a leech, it's a storm, but it can't just get us out of tourism. We can get out of production, and in order to get to production, we need to reduce VAT, we need to introduce reliefs, and that's not just 2% for healthcare. It was just a disaster that didn't help the economy or health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44486	Thank you. Gyro Replic drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44487	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You mentioned a colleague, Vinkovic, in your presentation, this latest scandalous event in the election of the Croatian Government to deliver electricity to the authorities of the state administration. And you rightly find that the Croatian government is, of course, the sole culprit of this scandalous event, which has obviously been lost in all these very current daily political topics. So we must realise that both as a customer and as owner of the Croatian government, the greatest and exclusive responsibility and consequences are dramatic and far-reaching. So as the owner of the Croatian government last year forced HEP to increase electricity prices more than 20%, thus of course increasing the cost of the economy, thus obtaining a chain of purchases of Croatian products and others of course, thereby additionally burdening the budgets of Croatian citizens, and the reasons were investments and justifying this collection that HEP would have to invest terribly. After two years we see that there is nothing from investment, so neither in production nor in distribution nor in transfer to nothing. He's the only one who's pissed off party personnel. What is the level of stupidity in all of this, it has gone undetected, a Croatian government public procurement reference says in a public ether that the electricity chosen from that supplier will be delivered from a renewable energy source. So, you as an engineer simply find it difficult to understand, and it can hardly understand any layman in that. So he declares that electricity from renewable energy sources will be spent on 100 million kunas annually. So what is the level of ignorance, inability and irresponsibility of the Croatian government, in fact, can be seen on this example.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44488	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44489	Well, yeah, I mean to me, not simply as a layman, but first of all, because it's my profession, but on the other hand, since I have a long-standing experience of managing the city, I can't believe that one owner first affects his public company to collect. It's not 20% gone, it's 30%, it's just that calculation of electricity towards households, according to the economy, it really needs to give some Nobel Prize in this model of ours who can explain it in a folk language at all, which means that the calculation and how much is the price of kilowatt hour. But on the other hand, the point is that the Croatian government first made it possible for HEP to borrow that, as you said, none of the investments had happened except probably in changing furniture, given that the directors-generals or members of the administration had changed, that they had probably obtained new vehicles, etc. I don't mind if they're out of date and they're not taken on the lease, etc. but no one can explain to me that the price of electricity offered by HEP through another company is more expensive by 10 to 30% of those who come to Croatia, they practically take and say there is still room to cut the price. Who's crazy about that? Who's crazy about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44490	You're a replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44491	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Vinkovic, you are in your debate, and later you reiterated this in a replica or response to the replica of your colleague Vuksic, you said that the public debt of the Croatian state in the gross domestic product is 80%. So you, like all of us, have been given the mandate of Croatian citizens to represent their interests in this High House, not to frighten them, not to exaggerate problems. So you simply deceive, you enjoy showing the economic situation in Croatia more difficult than it really is, and it is difficult. So despite your tendency to a populist folklore and to exaggerate the problem, you still have to have responsibilities for the spoken word, so the proportion of the public debt of the Croatian state in the domestic gross product is 53% and not 80% as much as you would like to look like Greece.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44492	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44493	I didn't know I was scaring the citizens. But be assured, comrades, that I am certainly not scaring them. So the assumption is not 53%, but at this point it is 62.5%, indicating that by the end of the year there will be 80% of gross national income. And I'm not scared, it scares this government. In the end, all of us together are scared by the Prime Minister, he's pushing the fox out of King Kong and Godzilla together, be assured of that. So when he went to SR Germany a year ago he could see and could learn from Angela Merkel who would not come to Zagreb that Germany had reduced VAT and did not increase it. I urge you to take another closer look at the famous 21st Plan. There are no chapters in that plan, it's a promise to the citizens of this country, based on that plan you've got elections. Nothing in that plan is being fulfilled. And I'll end up with one sentence not wanting to scare any citizen, citizen of the Republic of Croatia, people you live well just don't know it. You can't feel it yet, but you're living better than two, better than 10 years ago. This was said by some from 2000 to 2003 and by some from 2003 to 2012. etc., etc. That's true. Citizens are getting poorer and the government is enjoying the self-gratification of major economic moves. So which is why the number of unemployed is increased because Vinkovic scares people around Croatia or the government is doing a bad job. Or as you raise your hand every Friday. Think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44494	Thank you, thank you. I don't think our citizens are that timid. ... Stephen Milinkovic's replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44495	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Vinkovic, I didn't get involved in the debate, but when you mentioned the Rules of Procedure, then I felt like I'd come to the phone because I'm just going to be denied the possibilities soon enough we won't be able to change the replicas so much. So I was even thinking why didn't that farewell replica institute be introduced? Well, since there will be fewer possibilities, I use it that way. But in your debate, you mentioned a number of questions that require answers that many of our citizens expect, seek, mainly farmers you said, they yell, shout, but there is no answer. And it's striking, of course, in the eyes of this speed change of the law of adoption, I don't want to believe that the proposer is going to that speed system so they won't see, they won't notice, it's all visible and everything is visible. So here's when you said health care itself I want to say that last week we discussed amendments to the Health Insurance Act, P.Z.E. ... Health care but let's say by the way more, by the way it says let's go orthopedic aids now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The orthopedic aids will simply have to be charged by our pensioners. So what's now the way these people who have already suffered a terrible blow to the standard so that they can still be burdened. And neither is the form of voluntary health insurance solved for such matters. And I'm simply holding, there are a number of questions like you said that require an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44496	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44497	Look, a colleague, no Rules of Procedure, no matter who wrote it or who adopted it, can stop this word. He can't. The word is more important, especially the one telling the truth, more important than the Rules of Procedure and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. But this Rules of Procedure does not have to be called the Rules of Procedure, it simply means abolishing the opposition in the Croatian Parliament. If you had suggested such a Rules of Procedure here, there would have been a revolution, a revolution, it would have gone out, it wouldn't have come back, etc., etc. But this is normal now, it's normal, it's democratic, social-democratic, don't let the opposition talk. But let's go back to the effects of this entire economic policy. Here you are in local self-government, so you can see what this decentralization of local self-government has brought. She played the game, the children's, with income tax, with the accommodation she further impoverished local self-government, destroyed education and everything that is related to those decentralised functions. It would be best if not for the minister of education, although he should go to schools a little bit in Slavonia, etc., but the finance minister goes to some principal at a primary school or high school, so he'll see that there are no pills, but there's not because the missing funds have no sponges or chalk and soon there won't be a record. Now that's the effect of it all. And about the agriculture that we're not talking about. They don't scream, they help, they scream.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44498	Thank you very much. To remind ourselves, we are discussing the Taxation Act and our Rules of Procedure say that the Law is being discussed in the first reading, in the second reading in an emergency procedure. And here we had to not say what we didn't do and then say that we were strong, that we were, that we were, that we were choking the word here. And you talked about everything and everything. Final 5 minutes on behalf of the SDP Club Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44499	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister with Associates. Here's the issue of excise duty is causing a lot of attention, mostly discussing this part of the cigarette, and the other part, you can see, that it's more or less interesting to see. And as far as I can see, we've also discussed those who smoke and those who don't smoke, so the subject is obviously very interesting. So what's important here? What's really changing? The only thing that changes is that there will be no more prices on the stamps and changes in the fact that stocks of the existing one are being calculated differently. In principle, it only changes when it comes to cigarette excises. So, what's the structure of the price of cigarettes look like? In the price is therefore included the producer price, so what the producer takes, large sales, small sales and state. So, the manufacturer, the shop and the state. And it's a state based on VAT and excise duty. The VAT is as high as 25% and the excise duty is as high as it must be under European Union rules. And she's like that now she has to go from one. 7. be 9.6 kuna per pack of cigarettes, talking about a standard box of 20 pieces, yes of 1. 1st year must be 11.5 kuna per pack of cigarettes and 1st. 1. On the 18th, $13.5 per pack of cigarettes. That is what the European Union is asking of us, that is what the state determines and that is the only thing that interests the state. What's the price of a cigarette or else the state doesn't care at all. Therefore, the state is interested in how much excise duty it is to get its share of excise duty and VAT. Therefore, what matters to us who are here in the House is that these 11.5 kuna, 9.6 kuna now 1.7, 11.5 kuna from 1.1 next year ends up in a state register of cigarettes. It is a minimum required by the European Union and should be monitored. What was the case so far? So far, it has been the case that the excise duty is calculated in the excise warehouse of the producer or importer, but now the part that is outside the excise warehouse, which is in stock in wholesale and retail. He didn't cover being. Now it will also be covered in a way that simply since 1.7 this year, regardless of what the excise stamp says must be so much and it must be installed in the price. There is, of course, a problem of retroactivity, so I don't see a problem with retroactivity, why? Who's finally paying that fee? Not the manufacturer, not the importer, not the one to whom it is accounted when the state makes a charge at the excise warehouse, but ultimately the buyer, the one who buys cigarettes. Therefore, and there is no retroactiveity with it, because since 1.7 this year, the minimum excise duty prescribed is 9.6 kuna, as of 1.1 next year 11.5 kuna, and the buyer will therefore not change in this sense, there is no retroactive action. He will pay a fee of 1.7, or the following year from 1.1., as installed in that price of cigarettes. And that's why there's no need to write on the price stamp because I tell the state in the end it's not interested how much wholesale it's going to make, how much it's going to make, but how much it's going to cost to go into the state budget and how much VAT it is. It's the only thing that goes into the state register. I don't think there should be any misunderstanding about it, and there's no problem with retroactivity, but there's a problem simply with the introduction of order. It is therefore the order that all those cigarettes which are now found 1.7 on supplies to be in a system such that they pay the excise duty of the one which is in force from 1.7, and not the one which was previously the same since 1.1 next year, that all those cigarettes that are in stock whether they were in a excise warehouse with the manufacturer or importer or were in wholesale and retail, that the excise duty which is then in force from 1.1, i.e. 1.7, and that is what is prescribed by the European Union rules that we have accepted. So I really don't see any problems here, except I see one problem, which is that now the customs administration will have more work to do, so now they will have to control both wholesale and retail warehouses, not just excise warehouses, but thank God of 1.7. Many customs offices are being abolished towards the European Union, according to Hungary, Slovenia etc. And so we'll have a condition to say extra customs, they need to be transferred to work so-called. internal control, on the market within the state, not at customs, so let them do this part, let them control it. The state will collect its money, and customers will pay what is simply prescribed how much excise duty is prescribed by the European Union rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44500	Thank you. Replica, Ivan Shuker. He gave up on the replica. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44501	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Jelusic, thank you very much for explaining this price structure to us and for saying there are no problems. And then you said that these measures come in 1.7, but explain to me when everything's so good, why it went with the VAT increase on food and milk when it didn't have to be before 1.7, and that's a problem. There are major problems for our citizens who have an additional blow to the standards that are very difficult to live on. He's got problems with customs, he's got no problem with that either. There are big problems, people many if they have a job, etc., maybe a job change and travel, and that is one of the problems that requires an answer. So there's a lot of problems and in that part you need to be very careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44502	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44503	Col. Milinkovic, if necessary, is what is negotiated, which is the condition of the European Union, which is that the excise duty per pack of cigarettes be of 1.7. 9.6 kuna, from 1.1 next year to 11.5 kuna. The state has to charge for it. It is a minimum excise duty prescribed by the European Union. Why don't you pick it up? You say that's the problem, that's the cost of the people who will work. So we will now have hundreds of people who are left without their jobs and... no more at the border crossings no customs duty towards Hungary, Slovenia etc., and the state will continue to pay them. All right, but then let them do their jobs, let them control this and other jobs in the territory of Croatia, so if they no longer have a job at the border crossing they'll have it 10 km away at the wholesale or retail sale in their shop, in their city where they live. Why isn't it working? Therefore, I think you agree with me that anyone who receives from the state's salary needs that salary and earns and provides funds in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44504	We're discussing tobacco excises, not milk. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44505	Thank you very much. Your colleague Jelusic, you said, explained to us a nice system of excise duties, increase exactly by date or date to say Croatian, so you said that cigarettes will no longer be priced. But I was in Europe, and everyone else on cigarettes in Europe wrote the exact price on the stamp, so I don't understand if we're harmonising it with European laws as to how we won't have the price of cigarettes, and in Europe, it's mandatory to write on the price stamp. The second thing, if we increase the excise duty and achieve with the price of cigarettes, therefore, by increasing the excise duties of some, perhaps 30 kuna per box or 300 kn per fee to say, clearly there will be less consumption or it will cause some other effect or effect, which is, in some sense, the smuggling of cigarettes across the border from BiH. He was very good at telling his colleague Shuker that there are no cigarettes there, a three-and-a-half-a-half-convertible stamp or 13-and-a-half kuna. We have 21 kunas. So there will be an increase in exactly this one to say the black market across the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is 1,000km long. And what's going to happen? As one of your leaders said, it is strange that the number of unemployed produce less consumption, so it will be very strange when the increase in excise duties is lower in charge of the state budget than expected. That's what's gonna happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44506	I hope you didn't show that cigarette from the smuggling?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44507	No, no. These aren't smugglers, these are neat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44508	The reply to the replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44509	My colleague Grubisic, so I said, so I'll do it again. If the price of excise duties is known in the structure, the amount of VAT is not interested in how much the trader will earn. In principle, therefore, it is not the ultimate price that matters, but it is the price that is interesting for the country everywhere not only in Croatia. And countries in general have decided in the European Union everywhere, therefore, that cigarettes and alcohol are particularly taxed because they consider that they have certain health reasons, etc. And the one who consumes it to pay extra for it through the excise charge. However, I am now saying if there is no cigarette, and there will be no more price on the stamp there was no alcohol on a liter of cognac there was no price and the stamp exists. The stamp is only a sign that the goods are in the excise system, that the excise duty is paid, that the state has picked up its excise duty on that bottle of drinks or a pack of cigarettes. The one who doesn't have a stamp is known to be smuggled and, of course, it's in the interest of the state that there's no smuggling. You say there will be even more now that they collect cigarettes due to the increase in excise duty as they will accumulate with years of EU accession. But that's why we have exactly what I was talking about earlier, people who work at Customs, who are now out of a job. So we put them in a position to control it, so on Saturdays I can't get through my market so 10 of them won't stop my cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes. They're all without a stamp. I don't have the authority to control it, and those who are now surplus in the Customs Administration will have the authority, they need those powers, and they need to do it right now. So there must be no smuggling, or smuggling should be contained. Well, only if the state wants to stimulate, and I don't think it should be stimulated. I think you agree that they don't need smuggling?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44510	Five minutes on behalf of the HDZ club Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44511	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy. Well, I'm glad he finally discussed the SDP club. Now it's crystal clear what the difference is between how we look at HDZ and how SDP looks at this. First, it is tragic that the strongest club in the ruling coalition does not know the cost calculation technique and it might be good if the deputy minister explained it, because then Mr. Jelusic would not say it on behalf of the club what he was saying because he would simply know that the retail price has a significant impact on the level of excise duties. Wait a minute! Because one part of the excise duty is fixed, and the other is variable, the basis is a retail price. Therefore, the taste of your entire debate falls into the water and clearly shows the Croatian public whether you will raise your hand for something you do not know what it is. And that's the taste of the whole story. You said it here today on behalf of the club. You can look at the phonograms, so you'll... That's one thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing, I don't know what time you're not directly, but you indirectly admitted that you don't care what tax there will be because he doesn't pay this one, that one. It is ultimately paid by Croatian citizens, which is the biggest problem. You said it here. However, what remains of a visit to the air after this debate is two facts. One that the dynamics of excise growth are simply known. She's at the moment when the negotiations are over. We know at what point that excise charge should be. However, what everyone avoids from saying to counterpart Dalic and I, we said something about someone playing with stamps last year to show that they did a huge order on the tobacco market, that there was no more gray economy, collected 300, 400 million. And look, but the budget is one very strange plant. It touches her as much as it can. First four months of tobacco, there's no money. And where's the money? The cat fell at 12 months last year. And now you've finally come to the truth that you can't escape from. And you're changing the whole law now, breaking the system because you made a mistake in 12 or 11 months last year, destroying the whole system. And you're not aware of what you're doing with this retroactive excise charge right now, you're not aware of the price tags, that you're opening up what used to be in the areas of the former state which, fortunately, fell apart, and that's what you had in the age of big inflation. material and financial responsibility. And you, when you owed a materially one product, inflation, the price grew, you eliminated it as if you sold it, later you sold it, and at a higher price, you included it. That's what's going to happen to you now with cigarettes, not to say you'll get dozens, hundreds, thousands of new taxpayers. Because everyone who sells to you starting with the Press kiosk is practically becoming a tax payer at the moment of the excise duty, and it's been waiting for us for the next four years practically at least once a year. And why don't you accept this proposal that we've told you, give the excise fees once a month, and no one can make that kind of stock to fool the state, no one can make it. And in the end, that's what 99% of the people in customs who do this job are going to tell you that's how it's supposed to be done. But I'm saying, it's like that. However, the basic principle of all tax laws must be clear, simple and such laws offer full efficiency and reduce tax erosion. Every retroactive colleague and colleague, anyone who wants to come to invest in Croatia, drives from Croatia. Last year, we passed a law on retroactive tax on capital gains. Now we're doing it with the excise charge. It simply points to one legal uncertainty, and I think that what will ultimately be gathered may now be lost in some future times. I repeat, don't forget that in the neighborhood we have a country where a cigarette, a pack of cigarettes is cheaper than 10 kuna. So on the pike it's 100 kuna. If you pass it on, you say no to expenses, sell something cheaper, that's 50.60 kuna per profit tax. And that's the danger. And be assured what I said will be repeated once again, each importer, each producer knows very well the increase of one or two kunas in Croatia without at the same time bringing it to an environment that increases traffic on the gray market. They just know it. And let's not kid ourselves, I think we're doing something that's not good, we have a system that works well. There was a mistake, the Customs Administration simply with the division of stamps can prevent it in the future without a problem and ultimately as it will now happen with the application of the Value Added Tax Act that we will pick up in the first month 800, 900 million kuna less. We're not gonna lose them, but in the calendar year, we're gonna lose them because the charge's just gonna be a month, two days late. Therefore, this would happen here and therefore, colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ club simply cannot support something like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44512	Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44513	I'm not going to look back on what you usually like to qualify. It's in your style that anybody knows, which is who doesn't know. But I'll say I know the next one, and I'll say it again, the state doesn't care how much the manufacturer or importers of cigarettes or wholesale or retail. But she's interested in how much it costs and VAT to pick it up. And how will the state know that? By indicating that excise duty is present on the product, on those cigarettes, and VAT on the fiscal account. The only way the state will control those revenues is through a fiscal account of whether VAT is paid, and through the stickers, through the stamp whether the excise duty is as much as it is. And she'll change, of course. You're saying, and that's what the state is interested in, if the producer increases its production price and the retail price increases, but that doesn't mean that the state, people think that the state is getting something. No, the state team won nothing because the manufacturer won. Therefore, the manufacturer may pay its price. Of course, it's a matter of his business policy whether now one factory will double its price of cigarettes or not. If they can get away with it, why not? But there's no reason that this exact price then exists on the stamp because if it were on the excise stamp, then that would make sense because then it means it's the state's income. And this rest is not the state's income, so the state doesn't have to put that amount, but that the stamp must exist, yes, because it is a sign that the goods are not smuggled. As for who ultimately pays, etc., so we don't care about the citizens. I think it's such a good demagogy. We all agree that on certain products such as alcohol and cigarettes must be this extra charge, that excise duty. The European Union has determined exactly what a minimum price is in Croatia, so 9.6 kuna of 1.07, 11.5 kuna of 1.07. It is a minimum that Croatia must introduce excise duties per pack of cigarettes whether we want it or not. Why is such a policy in Croatia and the EU? I guess we also agree on that, and we know that simply by additional taxation, by additionally imposing on alcohol and cigarettes, it wants to desimulate the consumption of these products, and this means in the budget to be used for something smarter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44514	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44515	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am pleased with my colleague Jelusic that you have confirmed once again that you do not understand the billing of excise duties and that you have a fixed and variable part, and that it is the basis for the variable part. So don't say it doesn't matter that the state will pick it up. It's very important. If this raises the retail price, the variable part increases. Therefore, these are facts. But very few people in Croatia know this method of reckoning and therefore there is no need to bother their colleagues with this. But it's the system that matters. And watch your colleague, Jelusic, when you say it doesn't matter who pays, it's very important. Now look what happened to the power. How can it happen that the government is getting electricity from someone third, and HEP couldn't compete? At the same time, the government ordered him to raise 20%. But, look, in the end, the Croatian citizens paid for it again. But I say, I repeat once again, I am pleased that this debate was on behalf of the SDP club, first because both Croatian entrepreneurs and citizens saw clearly how you think about legal security in the Republic of Croatia, any retroactivity leads to legal uncertainty. Because if you do it twice in less than a year then you clearly point to legal tax uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia because someone who pays taxes in the Republic of Croatia simply doesn't know whether someone will reintroduce him with any retroactive obligations. So that's the problem. And we have a system that works well, which has experience. And I don't really understand who came up with this idea for 10, 15 million to bring down, this isn't even a bull being killed for steak, this is a bull being killed for a snack or an ear being a colleague... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44516	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44517	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Shuker and I are glad that my colleagues on the left have gotten involved in this debate and I'm sorry that last week when those laws that came from my let's say rope, which are my narrow area, that's health insurance, and there were a lot of questions, and there was not a word on the other side. I'm sorry. But one thing I noticed, you mentioned that retroactivity wasn't good, and I think that's where you clearly elaborated it. But I don't get it, so let's just say hurry. Why was it rushing with VAT, increasing VAT and I didn't get a response from my colleague Jelusic, who I set up with, why was he in a hurry to increase VAT on bread and milk? I know now everyone's gonna say here's another one about milk. Well, I know the area, of course, because our milkers, cattlemen, are on the lowest possible branches that could have happened. But I can do customs, I can do customs, because this law concerns a customs officer directly. Customs officers who have great difficulties, who move to remote places and have to travel, and I am specifically founded let's say Customs Office in Koprivnica and now threatens that some 20 customs officers will come from Koprivnica. It's like we don't know how to work. So we have high-quality, capable customs officers and employees who know how to do their job and who have proven themselves. And in that part, I want to mention it in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44518	My colleague Shuker wasn't talking about customs, or VAT on milk, and you raised the replica to his basic exposure. And persistently all day in replicas, we're saying something that wasn't in the basic exhibits. A fellow Shucker response to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44519	Yes, Madam Vice President. Col. Milinkovic, like this, has actually touched the key problem in one particular way, which is what the SDP club was saying and that is that it is ultimately neutral because it will not be paid by the company. In the end, Croatian citizens will pay for it. So it's a key message of this whole story, it's neutral but ultimately it will pay Croatian citizens as they paid for eventually and electricity, as they finally paid for the gas, so as they finally paid for the increase in VAT 25% because this game with customs repeats what happened last year. That's not why the system was to be torn down because we're definitely destroying the basic principle of excise duty. So it's known exactly by the old law when there was a tax liability and who pays for it. You now after the goods have come out of the excise warehouse for a month, two, three doesn't matter how much someone will decide to raise the excise duty if now they need to list that goods on it to calculate excise duties etc. But then that's no longer the basic principle when the excise duty comes. You've had about a dozen or fifteen taxpayers to pay for tobacco products so far, I don't know how many of you had an energy bond, and now you're going to have thousands of them. And you're not even aware of what happens again. But counterpart Milinkovic doesn't matter that's what Croatian citizens pay for, it's a message from the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44520	People always pay because there's no one else to pay. Every country is funded by its citizens. 5 minutes on behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44521	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with colleagues, colleagues and fellow MPs. Yes, it is true that as Mr. Shucker said to repeat his last sentence, all Croatian citizens pay for it. They pay for legalisation, pay for more expensive electricity, pay for more expensive gas, all of them are products, the products of this government, which, given the increased price of electricity, and HEP buys 460 new vehicles for its own purposes. It's clear that sheep can be cut several times, multiple times, and only once can be slaughtered, and then no more haircuts. Now, when is this action going to happen that I was talking about infinitively, so when it's going to happen maybe it's not hard to assume. The tobacco industry, excise duties, the tax says that this country in its budget has an item in which it supports the tobacco industry or tobacco production with 62 million kuna. So Croatian citizens pay or support from their tax obligations, support tobacco production with 62 million kuna. At the same time, Milinkovic said he spoke to the milk, so the support is 31 million kuna. Double down. Now these excise duties, introduced according to Mr Jelusic's schedule and calendar calendar, will lead to an increase in the price of cigarettes. That's how we all agree. Compare the price of cigarettes in Europe and their wages with the price of cigarettes in Croatia and our salaries, and we will see that there is a huge disproportionateity. That wages in Europe are an average salary in Europe several times higher, and the price of cigarettes is approaching prices in Europe. You say it's to reduce or reduce the effects of smoking, reduce the number of smokers or reduce the number of cigarettes that are smoked, etc. So what does the state support with 62 million kuna tobacco production? What, then, Croatian citizens support tobacco production from their pockets, if the state's intention is to reduce the number of smokers, reduce the number of smokers and cigarettes. And one more thing, what you're saying about customs and customs is I've shown that the price of cigarettes in the neighbouring Republic is 35% less than 40% in Croatia, and do you think you can set the wall at a thousand 100km limit from BiH to every 10m per customs officer to open every trunk and peek under every sicc to see how much a cigarette or not to pass a cigarette? There is no customs duty or that police force that can shut down such a solid hermetical border so as not to pass on a pack of cigarettes. Besides, today, and the rule hasn't been changed, it says that you have the right as one person to pass on a pack of cigarettes. So then my neighbors, personally, can cross the border 20 times a day and pass on a pack of cigarettes and there's 20 pikes times 80 kuna I've earned 1600 kunas, I can make a day and I can smoke a year without a problem. As a result, the HDSSB club will not discuss such a law which also has consequences and the overall system of excise charges and excise duties will not be for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44522	And Ivo Jelusic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44523	Col. Grubisic, of course, is that you deliberately or intentionally distort the facts and say if smoking is harmful, why the state stimulates tobacco production or why it provides certain subsidies. Well, tobacco production is an economic activity and needs and the state needs to be within the limits of what it is allowed to do without getting into a competition match. So, as much as it is permitted for the European Union to encourage its tobacco-produced economic activity, as others do. Why, to be as competitive as that production and others that our production... Because it's production, because it's an economy like the production of alcohol, the same economy, that's where people work, they get wages, they make revenues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But on the other hand, if the final product of this is something that is harmful, of course, that the state in another way needs to be solved. Thus, the state also provides incentives for plums even though it is made of rakia. What should now not give an incentive for plums from which to produce brandy. It should, because it is an economic activity and we must make our producers of any goods and services competitive on the European market in which 1. Seven, we're going in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44524	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic. Please colleagues and colleagues sit in the benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44525	Col. Jelusic, the support for pig farming is 31 million kuna per year, for tobacco, therefore, the support for tobacco production is 62 million kuna per year, twice as much. Whether we need more and more tobacco production or pork production. And I guess it's not interesting because the imports that are given to import meat into Croatia are only given to someone and I will inform you in person and in what quantities meat is imported into Croatia and which of them benefits and commission. And about that some other time. And as for the very interpretation that everyone encourages tobacco production, then you can't say that it's the state's interest not to sell tobacco. True, it supports this, increases excise duties, so it tries to kidnap, tries to make as much profit and income as possible from the production and sale of tobacco. And this turns out, not to say hypocritically, so we're going to reduce smoking, we're going to reduce the number of smokers or the number of cigarettes that smoke. So, don't hold water to your theory.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44526	It's over. Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44527	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your discussion, today we have seen through different clubs different opinions and views of one system, the excise system of a particular product. And it's certainly interesting to see in which part this part can be improved. What was definitely here was about this part when certain excise duties were raised to come to always and to a certain part of the smuggling. That's one problem that is actually let's say present ever since, ever since it's been said state. The problem is, let's tell the neighbouring states that we're about to strengthen our borders. I just have to say that the customs administration that was called here didn't work and that it didn't work that in the first five months alone managed to confiscate over 7.5 tons of small tobacco and over a million and 800 thousand pieces of cigarettes. So the customs administration is responsible for doing its job as it has done before, it will also work in the future so that the suppression, let's say that part of the gray economy no matter what part of the excise duty, the bio system will always be present. And in that part let's say the key effect, let's say both improvements and certain and charges and the introduction of order into the market. Here's another thank you for your differing opinions and we'll see what the law will be like in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44528	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Dear colleagues, we have exhausted the list of respondents to the debate under this proposal, the final proposal of the Law. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 412. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the representative of Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac's proposal to take note of the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44530	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not accepted because the article clearly states which law applies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44531	Of course, I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44532	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 2 abstentions, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. And now we're gonna keep working. It is up to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 413 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the working bodies of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Is there a representative of the government? Excuse me. He'll be here by now, I guess he's got human needs like any other man. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, dear Boris Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44534	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have before you the Financial Business Act and the pre-departure settlement that entered into force on 1 October 2012, it was amended by a regulation that temporarily addressed the issues raised in the implementation of the law. This proposal puts the regulation out of force and further implements full compliance with the provisions of Directive 2011/7 of the EU on the fight against late payments in business transactions. Full harmonisations and additions to the provisions of the laws on which a doubt has been observed in practice have also been carried out. In short, I will just say, what is actually a regulation when we changed in 2012 in December, in short I will just say what has actually been amended by this regulation and what in fact the biggest amendments to this law actually refer to this regulation which is in this higher house and has been confirmed that the possibility of determining a temporary suspension measure with the procedures of enforcement and insurance is prescribed and before opening the pre-accession settlement procedure in order to prevent the damage that can occur over time from the application until the opening of the procedure. Here it was important to remove the blockades even before the pre-fashion settlements were opened. This law allows it to avoid irreparable damage to the company, while it is not only the process of opening a pre-emptive settlement. In order to simplify the process and reduce costs, the debtors must submit a smaller number of audited reports. Here we have also coordinated with the audit chamber which audit reports should be delivered in such a way as to simplify them. In order to avoid misuse of the protection of the public order, the pre-demand settlement procedure cannot be initiated or conducted if the procedure for determining the abuse of the right of tax-debt relationship is under way in the administrative procedure. Here, creditors who are believed to be able to suffer damage, may, in time, suspend the proposal to open a pre-trial procedure. It also protects the believers in this part. Parietal, executive and administrative proceedings shall be suspended on the proposal of the debtor, and may not be initiated unless the request has been declared in the pre-trial settlement procedure other than the procedure of insurance in criminal proceedings and the procedure for determining the abuse of the right in the administrative procedure. So here all the believers are being brought into the same position. Payment deadlines between entrepreneurs are also limited to 60 days, so the exceptional parties can still have a contract up to 360 days, but under exceptional circumstances. And deadlines between entrepreneurs and public rights persons are 30 days, especially 60 when this is justified by special circumstances. Also, what it is to say to the press in this part of the amendments to the law, and it has not actually been and the regulation has amended the provisions on legal tight interest to comply with Directive 2011/7 of the EU. the legal interest rate for late payment in business transactions between entrepreneurs and public-law entities in which a public-law person is debtor to a monetary obligation is equal to the reference rate increased by 8 percentage points. The reference rate is equal to the average interest rate on the credit position granted over a period of longer than one year to non-financial corporations is reduced by 1 percentage point. This led to full harmonisation with the directive and received a positive opinion from the European Commission. Here it was important that we are with this way we are actually going to tighten the interest rate that is today related to... the rate that actually does not serve anything, the more administrative part is adapted to the real market criteria where the CNB actually means how much the average approved loans that are granted to commercial companies will actually be calculated and we think that this part of the first part will also reduce the interest rate from about 15% to 12 because in these overall processes, these tight rates have ultimately burdened the economy and have ultimately burdened the entire collection system. It was also added to the supervision of companies and legal entities with public authority which regulate the financial supervision of the Ministry of Finance to carry out financial supervision of the business of entities, legal entities with the public authority of companies listed in the list of legal persons of particular state interest and companies of majority ownership or state co-ownership. I would also briefly tell you what was the application of this law that we said was going to take place in 1.10 with the state of 24.6., to show you the first effects of this law immediately. So over 4474 proposals for the launch of a pre-fashion settlement were received where 43.4 billion kuna commitments were declared and 37,000 and 7 employees were employed in these companies, meaning in those companies which made themselves known in the pre-departure settlement. So 37,000 workers and over 43.4 billion kunas have been reported for restructuring since this one, meaning the law is in force. According to the structure, to see what kind of structure we are in, let's say businesses, or companies that are let's say in the difficulties that are trying through this pre-fashion deal, are being restructured, it shows that the most reported liabilities of construction companies that employ more than 7,000 workers, and they have reported the liabilities of 10 and a half billion kuna. Then comes the processing industry, which has actually reported 9 billion kunas of declared liabilities in these pre-determined settlements, with as many as 15172 workers in these 576 entrepreneurs. Companies in the area of trade reported 5.5 billion kuna commitments, while hotel companies reported 5 billion kuna commitments and employ 2 and a half thousand workers. Of the 43.4 billion kuna reported in the pre-fashion settlement procedure, so to this day, it means with 24.6., two, three days ago, 8.2 billion kuna has been restructured, so it's either restructured in such a way that it's either an accepted plan, and then it's waiting for a deal now, or a deal is concluded, so before the court. So, first, the plan is accepted. When all the creditors agree, then we actually have court confirmation. So, of these 43.4 which are currently registered, 8.2 billion are resolved, restructured refers to 443 entrepreneurs employed by 8150 workers. So, for 8150 workers through these companies, every month next month they have to be paid, so gross wages, normal cash flows established, debt restructured, and they can actually again potentiate the creation of economic activity. Because when they were actually in trouble, unfortunately, they couldn't encourage economic activity, and most of it saw the inability to pursue economic activity as the government did. In the process of restructuring negotiations, in fact, there are 28.6 billion kunas related to 1250 other entrepreneurs working for 22296 workers. So they're still in the process where the plan is to be adopted, where they're actually agreeing with the believers how that restructuring will look. Proposed proposals have been rejected by 2634 entrepreneurs with a registered amount of 7 billion kuna. So they didn't meet the criteria. Most of the time, they didn't deliver the documents in the agreed deadline, and they're actually going to have to be restructured through bankruptcy. So, if this pre-departure settlement does not meet all the criteria for businesses will actually, it will restructure itself in that part where, in fact, no more in that part of bankruptcy, it will re-establish its obligations through bankruptcy proceedings while with 147 entrepreneurs with declared 1.6 billion kuna, the obligation to proceed is suspended because of the abuse of law. So where it was actually found that there was that part of the extraction of a certain part of the property, actually the Tax Administration or other creditors actually reported possible abuse of rights and then did not go into restructuring of that company until it was established that there was, or there was no abuse of rights. What's important here is that before we apply this law, I would like to show you the full effect of the application of this law and thank you all once again for being here and supporting it in this House of Commons. And so I hope that you will support the same as you supported the regulation, also this part of the amendments to the law. Individence, i.e. unfulfilled obligations, was made in 30.9.2012 in 44.6 billion kuna and 63,000 employees worked on blocked companies. Honestly, I don't understand how they could work on the team when they were blocked so many days, how they could have paid their wages. The most likely payments have been paid through other mechanisms, which means there must have been certain irregularities. However, you see on 31.5. unfulfilled payment obligations are now 36.7 billion kuna and employees in such blocked businesses are still about 48000 workers, which means that from law enforcement the unimplemented payment base has been reduced by 7.9 billion kuna or 18%. So, from 10 months to today, while 15000 less workers work in these blocked companies. So, the main intensities of this law were to restructure past the court, so through administrative proceedings. It took great responsibility from the Ministry of Finance, which together with the Financial Agency, where we formed the whole team to actually get through the Financial Agency these administrative procedures and water, so that we can control this whole process that we said was going on for 120 days. And the first effects of these companies that are restructured are seen. You know that the problems that our big construction company also had, the constructor, that it was successfully completed through a pre-war settlement, that it was thus consolidated. You also know of Vartex who was also in a pre-determined settlement, that he was consolidated with this law. Also about Dalekvod when we talk about, for example, the wood industry of Spačva, when we talk about some transport companies from a car transport company in Vukovar, Karlovac and some transport companies, that this law has given a certain possibility, means for the first time not that the state is constantly restructured in that part where the state needs to pay off the biggest burden of restructuring to be borne by the state, but in this part it will include active banks where, through certain write-offs of tight interest or through debt reprogrammes in large cases, whether the banks are actually a large part and principal part of the write-off in such a way that in fact, when the company is restructured, it disappears again in two or a few months's problems. Because this way of restructuring needs to provide these companies with a minimum of a few years, because you can't put on one long period, but surely two, three years of a stable business according to the calculations of their cash flows so that they can carry out their obligations neatly not only to banks, as unfortunately was the case with these companies because they had the strongest mortgage rights, but also to the state in carrying out their obligations, and also to fulfil obligations actually towards suppliers. What is also important here to say that the great consensus although at first there was one let's say the uncertainty where they said there was certain and legal uncertainty for this law, that regardless of its first effects. And when we see in the talks with colleagues from the European Commission and colleagues from other ministries from other countries that they also have similar problems, especially in this part of the construction sector where you have a very large part of the frozen assets, where banks had a large part of the mortgage on that property, where they did not want to re-valorate that property with this process, let's actually say a certain part of the obligation that this company could carry out its obligations in the future. The important thing here was the cooperation of the CNB also related to the reservation of these placements. So the broad context, let's say the interests were a wide range of interests were also from HUP employers, the Croatian Banking Association, the CNB. So everyone had to be set up by this model. And I think that some of the changes that have happened in this law, let's say he lives, are certainly welcome. What's more important and what we need to work on besides this law is the low capitalisation of companies where we said here that by turning these from commitment to capital we're going to improve the capital base. We're still missing funds here. And that is what we are in the recent debate when I was with finance ministers in Europe where they also expressed concern that these companies that are restructured need additional injection and additional capital so that what is now restructured could live on and do certainly this share of trust funds and capital funds that will provide support to such restructured enterprises. So there was also an interesting proposal by the German Finance Minister who said that EU funds could be used for such a thing so that these small businesses could get that living because, given the still unresolved crisis, which was not the way it was in 2008, but still banking activities, let's say closed down to finance the economy found new roads. We are trying to do so through HBOR and through FGS as models to give additional capital to this process, the whole process of pre-fashion settlements ultimately revives and gets its full effect. So I thank you once again because through this debate here in this House, the High House, you gave unique support to this law and I think that this support should continue to be because it is not about left or right companies but about Croatian companies that are actually very important for employment and that we will find a common language in such an important law as this. Which showed for starters, frankly, and we were a little skeptical how it would come out, to show a good initial good result. There is no euphoria, if it needs to be done, we are here to process it, to change it, but everything to help Croatian companies continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44535	Thank you, too, Deputy Deputy Minister of Finance. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's SDP's turn and Honorable representative Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44536	The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Minister with a colleague, respected colleagues and colleagues. I will remind you at the beginning that this law has been adopted with great support from all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, so it is almost consensual, because it is recognized as a law that was really needed under the conditions of the escalating indifference because it is recognised as an effective tool that simply gives insolvency economic operators a second chance, a second chance, an opportunity to re-launch sustainable business activity and preserve the existing level of employment. The data introduced by Deputy Minister Lalovac that so far in the pre-profit settlement process have entered about 4.5 thousand debtors with over 43 billion kunas of various outstanding liabilities that those of those other species with over 37,000 employees actually confirm that this law is a good instrument of insolvent law but that there is one strong political will that the problem of inequality is indeed resolved because it is one of the preconditions of economic development and recovery. In fact, resolving the problem of non-payment was one of the pre-election promises of the current coalition government, with the problem being marked literally as priority. Let me remind you of the same problem we were faced with in that coalition government from 2000 to 2003, and we successfully solved this problem. We will do so this time even though the situation today is incomparably more difficult and incomparably complex. At the moment this law was passed and as we know it was 1.10 last year blocked accounts, I will remind you, they had 74 thousand business entities, and the outstanding debts amounted to 45 billion kuna, the number of employees in companies that had outstanding liabilities was 63,000. Three-quarters of non-equity business entities have been blocked for more than a year. Each third entity has been blocked for more than five years. So these economic operators were practically dead. But their owners opened new companies, first, second, third, etc. As soon as they accumulated their debts on one, they opened the next company. Such practice confirmed that 290,000 business entities were registered in Croatia at the time, but it was only less than half of them, or to be quite precise only 46% were alive, it was active, or business. Unfortunately, it's not the end of an infamous statistic. Therefore, any other active business entity did not have any employee. More than half of the Croatian Economic and Business Corps was made up of phantom entities, and that is actually one frightening data. The first step in cleaning up indivisibility was made in the spring of last year, so entrepreneurs were allowed to regulate tax debts to the state through the programme for a maximum of 36 months. The second step is this Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement, and the third step is the final one is the Banking Act. These three laws are complementary and make up a single legal platform to address the problem of non-payment from the mildest forms to the ones that end up in bankruptcy with liquidation. We heard from the Deputy Minister that the effects of the application of this law are here on 31.5. outstanding debts amount to 36 billion kuna, down over 18% from the time the law was passed. In the original text of the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement, it was already intervened once by a government regulation which temporarily resolved some shortcomings observed during the application of the law itself. and the reasons for the amendments and additions to the laws that we are discussing today could actually be divided into two groups. On the one hand, we have a further simplification and a reduction of the costs of the debtor's procedure, and a lack of abuse of the law in terms of avoidance of tax payments, and another group is the obligation to comply with the provisions of Directive 211.7 of the EU Parliament and of the Council relating to the prevention of late payments in business transactions. In particular, it is about defining tight interest rates as criminal interest which force debtors to meet all their obligations in a timely and complete manner, not only in the interest of the believers but also in order to create financial discipline but also in a civil and business morality that we lack so much, which, of course, has a great impact on the state of the national economy. The introduction of the aforementioned Directive 2011/17 into the text of this law is the reason why the law is adopted by an emergency procedure and will take effect on the 1st day following its publication in the NN which is not such a common case. It simply wants to ensure that the law is in force before the day Croatia enters the EU. And allow me to continue only the most interesting and most important changes and additions in this legislative proposal. Therefore, contractual payment deadlines in business transactions between entrepreneurs are limited to 60 days. Only an exceptional possibility is allowed to contract longer payment periods with the possibility of a maximum of 360 days and provided that the debtor has provided the creditor with the appropriate payment insurance instruments which have the effect of the executive document. In the case where business partners do not contract payment deadlines, the debtor is obliged and without the call of the creditors to fulfil their financial obligation within 30 days. In business transactions between entrepreneurs and public rights persons where the prescribed payment period is shorter or only 30 days, this legislative proposal allows for an exceptional extension of that period to 60 days. Furthermore, this legislative proposal lays down financial supervision of commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or units of local or regional self-government, companies of particular national interest and legal persons with public authority. The objective of this supervision is to streamline business and savings at all levels and to strengthen financial discipline. Furthermore, in order to simplify the pre-demand settlement procedure and to reduce the costs for the debtor, compliance with international audit standards has been made in such a way that the debtor is no longer obliged to submit an audit report at the estimated value of the company, so when applying for a pre-demand settlement. Namely, one of the most common reasons for the negative solution to the case of a pre-demand settlement or its complete rejection is the lack of some key documents. In 75% of the cases, this missing document is just an audit opinion that takes a little more time and, of course, a little more financial resources, especially when it comes to large entrepreneurs, and of course, it is not easy to obtain these additional financial resources when a legal person is in a difficult situation and is forced to enter into a pre-profit settlement. Up to a total of 459 claims received by debtors whose obligation exceeds 10 million kunas has so far been resolved only 43 cases, and of 3632 claims by debtors whose debts are lower than 10 million kunas have been positively resolved 368 cases. So from this data, we see that only every 10 subjects have been positively resolved, although it is known that the most common reason for rejection or a negative solution is precisely incomplete documentation, and in this already mentioned audit report, then it is clear that it was really necessary to loosen the criteria or simplify the procedure, and this is done with these amendments and additions and wants to be realised. And in the end one of the things that the proposed law says, which is welcomed both by bankers and by the financial profession, I'm going to say in general is redefine the legal tight interest. So far in Croatia, the legal tightening interest has been defined by the Law on Mandatory Relations in such a way that the econtaneous rate of the CNB has increased by 8 and 5% respectively. However, in the opening part, I mentioned the European Directive 2011/07 and it is talking about the reference interest rates. And the escort rate of the Croatian National Bank was never, in fact, a classical, reference interest rate such as the European Central Bank reference rate for the euro area. The main reason that in Croatian financial practice so far we have not had one of these generally accepted reference interest rates is high euroisation and a poorly developed domestic monetary market. Therefore, in this legislative proposal, it is proposed that the rate of tightening interest on debt religious relations between companies as well as between companies and public rights persons should be exactly the reference rate increased by 8% with the need to say what is the reference rate. Therefore, the reference rate is defined as an average interest rate on loans granted to companies over a period of more than one year reduced by 1%. The SDP Club will support the adoption of these amendments and additions because we see that already, this law has already received good results and with these amendments we believe that these results will be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44537	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is next in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44538	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are amendments and additions to the Financial Business Act that I understand are already in force. Because most of these provisions were actually regulated by the Government by its December regulation. In view of the fact that the largest part of these provisions is actually in use then in that light I think it is also necessary to analyse the results of the pre-fashion settlement itself but also a few words later. The first thing I wanted to notice about the changes and additions ahead of us is that this legal proposal has 64 articles. The original law is 93. This means that in fact this law called Amendments and Supplements is essentially a whole new law. There is hardly any article in the original law that does not propose any amendments and additions here. In particular, all articles have been amended in the part of the law relating to payment and settlement deadlines. Therefore, a completely new legal standard has been proposed regarding payment deadlines. What is interesting, though, with the proposed articles is that they reiterate the argument of alignment with the European Directive, which was also an argument when, when that part of the Law was adopted in the context of the Pre-Agreement Act. I don't know how many times this harmonisation is done, especially with the standards we're abolishing today being replaced by the Payment Times Act, which was fully and fully in line with the Commission. The argument then was that the law was not enforceable. I'm surprised that now these amendments and additions are actually going back to the solutions that were proposed and adopted under the law. The only flaw in the law was apparently that it was brought by the HDZ government. Now we see that these provisions are coming back again. And I don't know if the law itself has been abolished with reasons that it is inconclusive, how these provisions will now be enforceable. We also discussed in the context of the Law on excise duties on this technical change, on dynamics and on the speed of amendments to the Law. We agree and support that what is not good in the legal order, which is a problem, which is an obstacle that needs to be removed. But the volume of these changes actually shows that the accuracy of the original law wasn't enough. A precision that was obviously not fully in line with the needs of legal, economic and economic practice. That's why the promoter obviously here changes the law in this range. I hope this time these proposals will be more successful because I agree with the Deputy Minister that this law is trying to solve an important problem. In this sense, some numerical indicators on the number of entities participating in and using this instrument of resolving either their liquidity or their insolvency have been presented here in the light of the Law. However, I stress these provisions, in fact, most of them have been in use since the New Year. And I don't think these indicators presented here, unfortunately, give reasons for optimism the way the deputy minister put it. They don't give reasons for optimism for a few reasons. Although the total amount of blocked entities and total blockages is reduced from the beginning of this year to some 39.9 billion to 36.7 most of this reduction is about reducing older ones' liabilities, i.e. the reduction of blocks older than 5 years. Blocks older than 5 years have been cut by 2 billion. Therefore, the fundamental question is whether the reduction of the blockades is the result of the application of this law as interpreted by the Deputy Minister or whether the reduction of these long-term blockades is actually the result of the erasure of non-lived business entities which did not submit their financial reports in accordance with the law, which the process of erasure was initiated before this law and during the previous Government. On the other hand, the blockades up to 60 days, so active indifference seems to me to show that, at the end of January to 60 days, 778 million were blocked, at the end of May 843 million, in April 955. From this data, I would not conclude that there is a reduction in liquidity in the economy and a reduction in the difficulty of payments. So I think the real effects of this law are yet to be seen. It is true that this law has been passed with the support of all clubs but these indicators, data, the number of entities participating in the bankruptcy settlement process, the number of settlements that have been settled, and the data itself on the movement of liquidity and insolvency unfortunately do not yet confirm and justify the assessment that this is about a successful legislative solution. It is possible that the scope of the changes also shows that the proponent himself has such doubts. On the other hand, in these indicators on the results of law enforcement, we see that there are a significant number of requests for a pre-demand settlement that has been rejected. I think this is about one bigger problem than a simple explanation that these subjects have not submitted comprehensive documentation. The real question is why they did not submit comprehensive documentation, because on certain individual evidence we had the opportunity to hear the information that this instrument of pre-profit deals is being misused, i.e. that some companies are applying to the pre-demand settlement process just so that they can suspend payments to their suppliers and other business partners, and then probably include the country itself. I therefore do not think that in any way it should be easy to go over the facts and over a relatively large number of rejected claims and applying to the pre-demand settlement system because I think that the number of entities that abuse this legal solution is hiding, and of course this abuse is causing a disturbance on the market and causing a pay disturbance. Because I repeat, no matter what our differences are but indifference, the height of the blockades up to 60 days that reflect the real and current and live picture in the economy is unfortunately not diminished and I hold that the Ministry of Finance with its repressive apparatus, which apparently has great confidence that everything can be controlled, should be paid attention to what it is and who those who are applying to the system of pre-emptive settlements, do not deliver the documentation, are rejected, but have essentially been given several months possible not only because of some of their administrative unpreparedness and inability but because they deliberately wanted to avoid paying to their suppliers, the state, which is quite contrary to the spirit and intentions of this law. In the third chapter, in the last part of the law, so-called. the financial supervision of companies with public authority is therefore explained by this new form of control of companies in state ownership by the need for the state as owner to better control the work of these companies. It is possible to accept such an argument only partially because state-owned companies are not companies operating outside the total legal system. Thus, different parts and ministries of finance and other services control certain segments of business both public-owned and private-owned companies. Finally, there is an annual audit. However, it seems to me that the Ministry of Finance actually felt the need to regulate the supervision of the financial operations of state-owned companies by law because we had the opportunity to see and read in the press that a state-owned company had refused to let the officials of the Ministry of Finance look into their books and insights in accordance with their business and in the manner prescribed by the law. No, no private company would ever dare refuse the services of the Ministry of Finance to work and act within the framework of the prescribed law. However, this obviously happened in a state-owned company that was never supposed to happen and we hold that in fact it was the result of the open talks that we wanted to hear today and discussions among members of the ruling coalition. It's about Janaf, of course. Therefore, by voting on this law, we will also vote on whether the state has the right to enforce laws governing the business of all others in state-owned companies. I agree there is. But we must underline this illogicality because it shows that political relations within the ruling coalition can also lead to the idea that some companies or some management presidents or directors of some state-owned companies think they can disobey the law and that they can do what no private company would dare to do, and that is to refuse access to the company to representatives of the Ministry of Finance. In view of the objectives of this law, supporting the proposal's intention to create a mechanism through which it will be possible for any part of the entities that have fallen into financial difficulties to be held in their business, the Croatian Democratic Community voted and supported the original adoption of this law. However, given the scope of the amendments, given the insufficiently reasoned results of this process, given the times that have passed since the adoption of the law and given the fact that in the non-proliferation zone the results should have been clearer and more visible precisely than the application of this law. In the event of these changes and additions, the Croatian Democratic Community will remain restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44539	Thank you, too, Your Honor. At your presentation, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44540	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, fellow Dalić, you have noticed in the last part of your debate perhaps what is crucial in these amendments to this law because everything that has been changed has been practically incorporated into the regulation that we have discussed already in this House of Commons with several technical changes. But very interesting since lately from the Prime Minister and the people of the ruling coalition and some ministers are spreading the story of order, disorder, someone doing disorder, someone doing order. You see for the first time in the history of the Croatian state is being built into the law that the state can control its businesses. And what makes these companies different from hundreds of thousands of other taxpayers who are controlled by the Tax Administration, the Financial Police except that apparently the ruling coalition has divided the spoils regarding public enterprises, governance, and then God forbid someone from some party criticises someone else or is sent to him an inspection or something else happens. It's not going into control how it's done, but obviously it's going well. And through these changes, so those contained in the regulation that we've already discussed in this House of High actually wanted to push through a little door something that's funny. What is the difference in state-owned companies with public powers between any private or mixed company or foreign-owned company in the Republic of Croatia as regards control so that especially in this law it should be stressed that the company can go into control. It simply doesn't show system failure, it shows that divided prey is not to be touched by another political party, because God forbid if you touch it, then there's going to be a lot of things. Well, then let's deal with it with the law, and in principle when you look at it, unfortunately, a law that's got political support in this House, and for a reason we'll be restrained, because that's the kind of thing we just can't agree on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44541	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposing, Deputy Finance Minister respected Boris Lalovac again reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44542	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short on the presentation of Honorable colleague Dalic about this law. That's what your colleague Schuker confirmed is the biggest part of the change is actually the abolishing regulation that was actually defined, so this regulation that you're actually being discussed was in this House of the High and for which you actually supported that regulation so I'm a little surprised that you'll be restrained but I accept. Because I'm saying you supported it through that regulation that let's say it carries 90% of the changes in this law that's being abolished. But good. Further related to this part of how there are a lot of changes in articles. Yeah, they're implementing nature. Why? Because when we wanted to help the economy, when we passed a new law he was really new and there I have to be honest with you we started with a list of white paper where we simply went to see how to help the economy when there were 71,000 blocked companies, because there were problems that for each company you would, and they met the bankruptcy conditions had to pay 10 or 20,000 kunas of bankruptcy, so many bankruptcy judges and bankruptcy managers. Simply how this part of being honest was to be defrosted at first we didn't have the support of a part of the economy. But today when the law is applied he comes, they say that this was really in that part perhaps one newspaper that everyone was afraid of. We have to be honest, too, we didn't know how to act, so in the light of that, let's say more was included both the Audit Chamber and the Association of Banks and the Croatian Association of Entrepreneurs who, when the law started to apply, saw certain technical things that could improve the amendment of the law and there was actually every law to change. If it can help one company, one worker to stay at his workplace I think that part of it and that implementation should be done. It also says here whether it's the result of eradicating or predicating a settlement? That's right, so I told you that 8.2 billion kuna was restructured through that pre-banking deal by adopting that plan or by making a deal. And I've listed these big companies for you. So you see that the greater effect of reducing this part of liquidity is precisely the result of this law because 8.2 billion kuna is being restructured. There is certainly a part of the deleted companies in there because, as you know, we have erased over 30,000 business entities who, according to the Court Register Act, did not provide certain financial reports for three years in a row. And so what you've actually been and started, but we've later moved on to let's tell the Trade Court the way it was supposed to be deleted. There have been numerous conversations with the Ministry of Justice as well as how to tell about those companies that are not to say ficus, how to fix that system. Because it's not only important to delete it in the court register, you have to close your business accounts with banks so that it's one part of the complicated process and the very erasure where we believe that in this particular section you have also made services to entrepreneurs because to delete each individual company you should have submitted a certain request. And it certainly costs, and a notebook etc. So these are all some kind of administrative cost that we've done with this erasure of certain companies. However, that part is smaller, it amounts to about a billion kuna. Most of it applies to this part of the pre-fashion settlement. Here's what you said about whether it's abuse of rights if someone doesn't report in that pre-demand settlement process, and then later you said that there's a possibility and a concern in that part that he's going to deliberately avoid paying the state. Not if he's rejected that part of his pre-war deal he's going bankrupt. He's gone and he's actually selling property through bankruptcy law. So, he's gone no more after he actually didn't pass that pre-demand settlement process, he has no more conditions to continue to do business than actually get through the bankruptcy let's actually say bankruptcy=literation, that part of his property is being sold. So he can no longer avoid paying either to the State or to another believer in that part. So it's important to say that it means all of these changes and if they actually come from your side and again through talking to entrepreneurs, if we can improve it because this was a newspaper, I think this was some kind of structural reform that we tried to restructure the economy past the court because we saw that there were certain problems that this was a good way. I said no too much euphoria, I said in this part of it myself, and we need to look at it step by step if we can fix something and every job that's been saved that the government said would fight I think it's good and that there's actually no winner or defeated at all, that we've brought this law together. And in that context, I, too, want this debate to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44543	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you are, Your Honor, Representative Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44544	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Croatian Labourists at the 9th month when the law was passed they supported it and, in fact, expectations in it were that part of the accumulated problems that were in the economy that would begin to be solved. And the truth of the law has received certain results, not perhaps enough what we expected, but some sort of order in the economy is being implemented. In the 12th month, we had a government regulation that changed about 40 articles of the law that was then passed in the 9th month, and now we have another 24 articles that are changing in this law, which, looking at the original law that had 93 articles, is about 70% of the change in the existing law. And now we minors have a little over six months of one law that we can say is a whole new law because 70% has changed. What needs to be said in particular that the amendments to the law are by emergency procedure, they have a P.Z.E. mark. and it is practically a front for harmonisation with EU legislation. The proposed changes have a significant impact on changes to laws that have nothing to do with EU legislation. Some solutions in the law itself are good and may be good, but there are some that are bad and there are certain issues which clearly as Labourists I will and later say we cannot support because part is not defined when it comes to the protection of workers' rights. And after six months of having a change like this, we ask ourselves whether we will not have any third changes very soon and then when we get those third amendments of this law we create one legal uncertainty with frequent amendments to the law. In the law analysis itself, and it is very important for the economy and for the citizens, and for the workers working in the economy, we see according to the information given in the law that 4500 requests for a preliminary settlement procedure have been received somewhere. Of that, 60% were solved, somewhere near around 2500, and 40% were in the process, and what the deputy said was a little bit more information that there were 37.5 thousand workers somewhere. Those who have obligations over 10 million kunas have submitted 459 requests for pre-determination proceedings, and it accounts for some 34 billion kuna and has over 22,000 employees somewhere. They solved 39% of the demands, and 61% are still in the process. 24% or 42 requests were positively resolved, and 74 were rejected or sent to further work. In procedures below 10 million kunas are somewhat different data, a much larger number has been received with 3632 requirements with commitments of 3.38 billion and with employees slightly over 10,000 employees. They resolved 64% of the demands, and 1942 requests or 84% were rejected or negatively resolved. Certain shortcomings or dual interpretations were governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation, which was confirmed by the Assembly, and as Croatian Labourists, we supported that part of the regulation, counting that it was necessary to comply with the law itself. Now we have here after six months of the emergency procedure of amending the law again, but we don't have certain data in which cases there was no settlement because the other creditors accepted the settlement, and that didn't want the Ministry of Finance. We do not have an important role in the pre-fashion settlement, however, the Ministry of Finance. I'm familiar with a case in Bjelovar, it's an Electrometal company where 400 employees work. All the believers accepted a pre-fashion deal, a plan until the Ministry of Finance accepted it and brought the company into an unspeakable situation. Although these companies have a chance to continue their business, 400 jobs are being questioned and they will be found at the Employment Office and will be a clear burden to the state because they will receive compensation at the Employment Office, will not be profitable, will not pay taxes and contributions and will not create a new value. So I believe that we might get an answer today which is why the Ministry of Finance wouldn't accept the pre-fashion plan even though it's about 200 million kuna, and the Ministry of Finance has a obligation somewhere close to 25% or 45 million kuna. Yesterday, a colleague and I went to the strikers because I can't reach a collective agreement with my employer and we also warned that canceling collective agreements would be quick to turn it over to the economy, but mostly I'm not talking about collective agreements right now because it's only about the rights of workers that they clearly and I hope with this strike they can force the other side to negotiate and to conclude a collective contract rather than something else they said. 35 companies work in demining, have about 600 employees and a large part of these companies went into bankruptcy, and before the bankruptcy was opened they were basic or open new companies, equipment was transferred to these new companies, and over them were those who created the debts and where there were and the obligations of workers were implemented bankruptcy. It's just that I'm talking about a practice that's not good because they've met us somewhere that there's about 50 pyrotechnics companies that are registered to do, and there's now about 35 of them that are active while other companies have somehow manipulated, created a certain debt or ended up or ended up in bankruptcy. Here when we talk about a significant number of companies, then companies with over 10 million liabilities are about a significant number. There's Dina plus Dioki with over 2 billion kuna. It was said here just before that from Deputy Minister da Dalekovod is in the process of solving with a billion and a half kuna, there are hotels Nova with 1.47 billion kuna, Nexe's group also with 1.28 billion kuna and that I don't keep counting. It's about companies that hire somewhere near 6,000 workers. And here's the mention of Spačva Company, I'm just going to name a copy here when it comes to this company, is part of the property of that company located in Bjelovar and is rented by the company Wood Industry Czecha Spačva and with this part of the pre-war deal, this company that rented Spačva wooden industry, this Česma works somewhere around 200 workers, now this company goes bankrupt. And when the deputy minister said he was fighting for every job, this ministry in this case was a completely different case because it seems that part of the property was prepared to sell to someone and the workers would still be on the labour market. And to say what's important, the amendments to the law and the concerns are that the debtor is no longer obliged to submit an audit report which in some ways speeds up this procedure itself. They were mentioned to be tight interest will be reduced in one part. And the deadlines are related to the payment indicated. Something that Croatian Labourists have and do not support, which is that, on the proposal of the debtors, executive litigation and administrative procedures are interrupted to resolve the opening of the pre-fashion procedure. I also ask the deputy minister, and does it mean to all of us that workers who have not received a few months' salary have submitted their duties to collect their salary? In this case, if a pre-departure procedure is initiated and the debtor requests, that part of the collection will be suspended in the executive procedure in respect of workers. And it is clear that because of this solution Croatian Labourists will be restrained when it comes to this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44545	Thank you, Your Honor. A replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic has been reported to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44546	Dear fellow Tušak, in your presentation you cited several examples, apparently this example of 400 jobs... It's about Bjelovar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You spoke of pyrotechnics who rightly protest in Zagreb. The state can and must preserve as many jobs as possible, those currently in existence. The jobs are the last line of defense. And not just because they were defending themselves, defending the existence of workers, defending themselves, in fact, the whole order of state. Because without jobs, we're not getting out of this depression. And that depression threatens us to be aware of that, we know about examples from the environment of general collapse. Both moral and economic and political. When economic downturning unemployment is shown by examples of some countries still in major crises and 50%. Then that skating into the abyss is impossible to stop. Then we say, we often speak unjustly here will happen to us Greece. We've said it before, and now we're saying it, I remember decades ago. No economy, no society, no state has come out of the crisis by firing workers quite the opposite of employment. It's the government who has to find a model to protect jobs. It's not just the survival of this government, it's survival and order in the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44547	Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, my dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44548	Thank you President, fellow Vuksic you are absolutely right, every job in this country is very important but it is important and whether this job is paid because according to these indicators and data we have on the one hand, a large number of poor citizens on the other hand are growing even a part of rich citizens. We are slowly running out of the middle layer of citizens who are very important when we talk about the stability of the state, when we talk about social justice and when we talk about the number of people who should normally live and feed their families. It is clear that every battle for each workplace is very important in this, and that is why I have cited certain examples in certain bankruptcys and pre-fashion proceedings as well as in part of the laws that can be good but they are somehow played and workers always draw a thicker end in these cases. And what's important is to point out and you mentioned it, and I also said about the pyrotechnics that the employers are telling them now. They are now spoken to by employers and what, by strike, by entering the European Union we will get the cheaper workforce we will get you will no longer be needed. They probably think of Romanians and Bulgarians who will do the job cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44549	Thank you, too. The HNS Club is next in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go. ... Oh, I apologize, Your Honor, for asking the motionary's representative to come back, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Deputy Minister. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44550	Thank you, Mr. President. Answers to these few of your questions for these companies that, in this company you spoke of freely, you can come to the Ministry of Finance, which is why this company is unfortunately in a very difficult situation now to get out of a pre-debt settlement, not because of the Ministry of Finance, but because of one, a public firm that did not properly restructure that debt. And also in certain irregularities are, but I'm saying the public hearing is here... Well, I wouldn't be so specific about that company that they are, who told you that information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Come to get full information whether this company, let's say, damaged certain creditors through the very pre-profit settlement process that paid off others and actually favored certain creditors through the very pre-departure settlement. So if you want to get full information, come on. I've been called here by everyone, and I'll always respond to everyone. Come to the Ministry of Finance, for each case you will receive detailed information, let's call the companies. Of course, you MPs when you want to help these companies from your neighborhood. We are open and clear to you, transparent and there is no further discussion. So I'm saying if you're talking about this company come down here and get full information so let's not say maybe because you don't know the whole system that the Ministry of Finance has rejected such a case here, especially if you want to say if they're the majority they can and revote the Ministry of Finance and the law allows them to actually, even though without the opinion of a positive one, a pre-determined settlement can actually be passed, in fact, that's what the law allows us. But for the sake of transparency, I'd like you to come and get information. And also when you were talking about a single company the entire pre-departure settlement process is transparent and public, so on the pages of the Ministry of Finance, FINA, I apologize, where you actually see it means anyone who offers any financial plan, who, as much as he enrolls, means every process is transparent. So, it can't be that what you said you wanted to benefit from certain companies. So it's all clear, public, transparent, means no hiding. So once again I call you when you're actually talking about certain companies feel free to contact us, we'll help the Ministry of Finance everywhere, not to say in this part we certainly carry the greatest burden and our goal is to save that part. But if you get the right information, come, we'll tell you clearly and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44551	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44552	Thank you. It's not a replica, but it's kind of an answer and thank you very much for inviting me to come and get to know all the details about this company. I cited her specifically as an example because it's about four hundred jobs and it doesn't matter four hundred jobs where you said this ministry is going to fight to preserve every job. And then I think the ministry must also contribute to solving certain problems and retaining those jobs and keeping the company working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44553	Thank you very much. And now the HNS club and the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44554	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy with associate, colleague and colleague. So on behalf of the HNS Club, I will make it clear that we will support these amendments and additions to the Financial Business Act and pre-fashion settlement. As we did in our first reading, that is, the first law clearly supported with all those arguments that essentially show that this government is working on preserving jobs that were recently both replicas and discussions, and in order to preserve jobs, we need to preserve the economy and develop the economy. This law is of course related to the preservation of economic operators that have the opportunity to restructure, which means that they are competitive on the market, which is why they are being restructured, to be competitive with others on the market, and in particular to producers that we can have what we all want, and that is production not only for the domestic market but for exports. It should be recalled that this law basically came about because last year, meaning at some point in the 8th month, 73,000 blocked business entities were recorded, of which 52 legal entities, and those essentially recorded 82% of the total amount of funds blocked. What was also indicative at that time that up to 360 days, 16 thousand legal entities were blocked, and 56 thousand legal entities over 360 days. In all, this amounted to some 52 billion kunas. In 38,676 legal entities, 41 thousand non-paying workers were employed, were unable to receive any salary if they were blocked for a year, and 25 000 workers were employed by craftsmen who were also unable to receive salaries. And this is the story of part of the increase of the unemployed because these citizens and citizens did not receive salaries and those by all the rules and all the laws that they respected were unfortunately to be recorded at the Croatian Employment Service and not within companies that could not only pay their wages but also work at all. And what's important for this law other than workers and the work of the company itself they brought along other companies to whom they owed, they didn't pay, and that famous indifference chain was part of this system. And this famous liquidity chain is, of course, one of the segments that made us uncompetitive as a country for investment, for what is said to be a safe law enforcement state, which means someone comes to the market with uncertainty that can be charged independently of what the law says. And then, of course, it's hard to expect a foreign investor to come, it's hard to expect domestic investors and citizens to decide on a business venture in a situation where you have companies that still work, under quotes "work", to create debts, produce new companies' daughters and don't pay. Therefore, this is the basis and purpose of this law both for workers and for the economy but also for competitiveness in general. At least in this segment are debts towards the state, although there are significant funds that have been owed to the state, especially in the sense of contributions and contributions for workers which we of course have resolved by laws in May and June of last year where no more pay can be paid without payment of contributions. It's not just for the sake of the state, it's not because the Pension Fund doesn't have enough funds to pay off all pensions, so we have to cover it partly from the budget of some 16 billion, but literally because it has to work that way. It's a legal state. This law is experiencing an amendment quite clearly, and this is the introduction of the first time this law is clearly and said to be expected to change because it has entered into a new space. This new space shows results with exceptional engagements of both the FINA and the Ministry of Finance. But the absolute co-operation of commercial banks who are of course interested in solving their claims, ensuring that their claims are charged tomorrow with the interest that exists in banking and entrepreneurship. The very facts of the amendments to this law that, for the good part, go into the essence. The point is, of course, when we talk about the need for an audit report, but what is crucial is that all the believers are involved. It is crucial that, in essence, it is those who clearly state that the company can or cannot survive on the market, and what has so far proved to be ready for both the creditors and the financial sector and the state to help the fallen companies that have fallen due to the business risk due to the environment, but they have fallen, in a good way, because they have not yet implemented the law or the law on bankruptcy or the laws of mandatory relations in the manner in which they were to be implemented in order to maintain liquidity in the system, in the economy. The EU, of course, sees the same in a particular report, in one part of the countries there are pre-emptive or similar hybrid procedures and, of course, they are all adapted to the conditions of the countries in which they are working, and so these amendments and additions to the laws are only adapted to one wish to help the economy survive, to be competitive. But this is also a message to foreign investors and also to domestic investors that what is passed as a law, obligations that are made to be absolutely implemented and that the state and this government will stand behind it. One of the important newspapers is the reduction of the tight interest rate. At a tight interest rate, many entrepreneurs rightly complained, and it is now shrinking. It must exist as well as in the reasoning of this law, which is why there are also certain sanctions for non-payment. By solving these pre-fashion deals that are in the process, of course, they will be later, but not in this number that clears up all these relationships that we've found. Pre-party settlements will ensure that the actual payment within the Republic of Croatia and between companies, and in particular should not be stressed between the public sector and private companies, leads within 30 maximum 60 days. At that point, all economic theories that exist in the world and in us economic analysts, ways of leading economic policies are essentially about one specific policy run by this government, which is as much money in the market and in the economy as possible, the more money that is being turned on the market, the more employment on the economy. And this is the criterion that I believe that by the end of the year, we will make an exceptional contribution to solving these pre-accession settlements to implement such things with all the other measures that we are doing for competitiveness, to the arrival of new investments, so that I do not now mention future laws on strategic investments and other laws that ensure both the pro-pulsibility of the economy and simplifying the obtaining of building permits through the new Law on spatial planning, etc. But without the liquidity of the system, without orderly payment and without those means spinning or spinning in the system, it is difficult to expect the growth of gross products and employment. And this law is one of the laws that is crucial to ensuring this craftsmanship, the money in the system that is, to be liquid. And there were, of course, comments about this part that was related to financial supervision. So, this government, this government and the coalition absolutely do not run away from transparency, control, control and behaviour of everyone in the public sector by manners of a neat and good businessman. Control and surveillance aren't any presses. They are part of a system that enables the public sector to be run as quickly and as high-quality as possible, to be more efficient and rational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44555	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a single replica reported. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44556	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Gjurkovic, you said this government is working to preserve jobs. I don't think that's true. It's not this, I'm just going to talk about where I know best and where I witness every day in agriculture. Every day, 10 to 20 family farms fail. Thousands and thousands have fallen. As a result, there are a large number of those who were able to pay pensions and who ended up in health care at the Employment Office. So there's no keeping jobs, and they had so much potential in agriculture we have. Second of all, you said this government is working to preserve production. That's not true either. I testify in agriculture after those efforts where production has been increased we witness a decrease in the production of milk, meat and everything else. Maybe they'll say some see there's a reason for the support. It is that they are a reduction but the problem is another, the problem is in relation to and opinion, holding a buyer in a privileged position. Here we are in a few days entering the European Union. Regulation 261 states that sustainable economic development needs to be maintained for farmers. It is not respected, the milk package is not brought, it does not contribute to the preservation of production, the production of decline, and our farmers are really looking forward to and entering the European Union, but it is also normal for them to suffer for their existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44557	Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44558	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I think I must be... in eight years' time HDZ's authorities because agriculture must be... Yes, restructuring agriculture, the agricultural sector of family economies, support, buying votes is something that has led farmers into the situation today in this situation that you're talking about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This government is trying both with law and with all instruments normally in line with the legal gain of the European Union and helping to restructure, to provide funds to improve production, but of course it is difficult to expect that something that has been collapsing for 8 years, especially when we are talking about agriculture can be turned into a year or two.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44559	Thank you very much. We will now give a break, and after the break at 3:00 we will continue the debate on behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44560	Here's my colleague and colleagues. We'll continue with the session. And now, on behalf of the club of HSSB representatives, the distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44561	... Well, it's better now. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] Something was quiet, yeah. So from the beginning of the introduction of a general pre-departure settlement as one let's say a slightly innovative mechanism which the Republic of Croatia has actually assumed a certain responsibility and participation in the problem of solving the accumulated and actually acquired dubios of Croatian companies. We, as the Representatives' Club, supported this pre-departure settlement as something that in some happier times and in some more orderly societies would certainly not be the happiest. However, given the situation in which the Croatian economy was located, we supported the introduction of a pre-profit settlement and supported the changes that were soon coming to the Law itself. It is quite clear that the simple complexity of all the relationships between the creditors, between their claims and banks and all of them, in fact, has been further consistent with the relationships that have emerged that these new situations have actually been giving birth, giving birth to these various changes that are now coming about for the third time as in the form of quite extensive actually supplementing and amending the law. When it comes to these additions and amendments to the Law, the HDSSB's Club of Representatives will support these amendments to the Law. Because we all support this whole concept. I think that simple time is what it is, actually the time we're in today is a time where we can no longer simply allow ourselves to lose any job or state and society as a whole can actually do whatever they can and whatever they know that each existing workplace is preserved. We are like the Republic of Croatia, as a Croatian society, as a Croatian economy, we are relatively uncompetitive, we are relatively inefficient in production, we have a relatively small number of products that have high added value. We have a relatively small number of people working and an even smaller number of people working in the real sector. And the economic situation and perspective of the Republic of Croatia is such that unless we can do everything we can to save, maintain, or improve our production, no one else will certainly do it for us. As for these certain measures mentioned in this Bill proposal, something short on interest rates. The fact is that an interest rate of 15% is actually an interest rate that is unsustainable. And rarely that industry or economy at all generates such added value that it can pay a tight interest rate of 15%. Rarely, the economy can pay a tight interest rate of 12.71% as this proposal provides for amending and supplementing the law. Of course, tight interest rates do not need to be paid by anyone who regularly fulfils all his obligations that are high liquid, where everything is ideal. However, one with which everything is ideal will not be found in a pre-fashion settlement and over this pre-fashion procedure. So it's ideal you wouldn't even find it there. But when he's already found, he can't just say it right. And it's really good to have a tight interest rate coming down from 15 to 12.71%. But the fact that 12.71% is actually a terriblely high interest rate tightens interest rates. In a conversation with some entrepreneurs, some have mentioned that the banks are still still in place and that even so far, the overall pre-fashion agreement has not found enough mechanisms to say a little more to encourage and push the banks to be more active and to be more interested in the pre-departure settlement procedures. Because very often banks are secured through real estate. They're not that tense, so they're actually covered in real estate that they've already taken over. So they don't have some kind of financial claim and then they're in a very difficult situation in these procedures. And maybe we should still look for additional ways to actually make these banks and as creditors, as participants in these procedures to even further press them, commercial banks, to simply participate more actively in not setting additional conditions and not actually making procedures difficult, the procedures of the credential arrangement. And there are certainly additional instruments that simply force them and push a little more actively into these processes because they take up relatively comfortable positions of them is not a rush, their properties do not lose great value and they can wait as creditors therefore no one owes them any concrete money very often. Thus, they are well - covered as believers, and then these procedures can make it difficult to set certain conditions that these other creditors who have some financial claims put in a much more unfavourable position than they do. Therefore, there may need to be more ways to force these banks to participate more actively in these pre-fashion procedures. And when it comes to a tight interest rate, unfortunately it is still as high as otherwise all interest rates in the Republic of Croatia and thus these tight interest rates. Well, normally I think our practice of tight interest has shown in the rule that once you get into that circle of interest of 15 or 18% after a year, two or three days of that debt, you just can't pay for it anymore. This is not what any company has paid for when debt to the state or a very small part of it has paid especially when it comes to large debts and simply that debt stands and ultimately again by some models in one way or another we write it down because it is simply unsustainable. There are no companies that make such high profits that when such obligations arise, they could serve it. On the other hand, a whole series of companies are still present despite the fact that this fiscal responsibility remains a phenomenon that one part of people simply makes a debt on one company and opens another and this company has a fully regulated credit rating, reports to a public tender, meets all the conditions and neatly gets public jobs and public works both by the state and the county and cities. So he had one, and the other, and the third, and the fifth accumulated 50 or 100 million kunas in debt to Croatia according to suppliers, he closed them only in order, opening 5, 8, 12, 15 further equally participating in public competitions, changing one or two letters in the name of these companies. So it's still happening today. And while there are examples of such people doing business this way, one mirror is still a failure to establish some kind of responsibilities on the market. And then, on the other hand, the question is, what does it even mean to open the so-called opening? The company for 1 kuna, for 2 kuna, for 5 kuna, and what was the whole story at all, I'm not sure that it made any sense at all because it was always easy to open the company today and the opening of the company for 1, 2, 5 kuna or similar loses its meaning. But I say these cases that are very current that continue to occur show that we have failed some people and some groups simply suppress them so that at least they can't continue to open new companies and just move from one to the next to another and continue to participate in public procurement, for example in public affairs or jobs for the state, cities, county or municipalities. It's a bad practice. I also say what's the problem when it comes to these amendments to this law which is a problem, which some problems are being seen and they're changing. but during the period of change of one change, others, some of those changes were rejected, which would have been accepted today with these additional amendments and would have entered into a settlement, and in fact in those first forms of this law were rejected and the companies did not enter into a pre-determined settlement. But well, overall, these changes, as well as the overall model of the HDSSB's pre-fashion settlements, support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44562	Thank you very much. We would now move on to individual debates and will be the first to be respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44563	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy. So what many colleagues have already said on behalf of the clubs have found most of this law since 64.How many changes are actually related to the regulation already discussed by this House and practically all the constituency clubs have supported that regulation. But what we sincerely expected after practically 6 months of implementing this law that we would get certain indicators of the effects of the pre-fashion settlement. The only regulation was made to eliminate changes in some things that slowed down the whole project and simply some things could not be done. But 6 months after the law was implemented or 5 months I think that these numerical indicators should have been a little more concrete to see the actual results and see if certain things are going in the right direction or if some things should change for a simple reason that at one given moment in the spring it was pompously announced we have reduced indifference by 6 billion which is not true. Administratively, some companies that no longer exist have been wiped out and their claims have been deleted primarily for debt to the state and thus the number of blocked companies has been reduced. And we're not saying anything that's bad either, because it's a problem for which every MP will certainly raise his hand to try and solve it because without its resolution we can hardly talk about the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. Until the culture of payments in the Republic of Croatia is raised to one level and what my colleagues and colleagues are concerned about here, and what a man hears in this everyday conversation with entrepreneurs is on page 2, says an analysis of the proposed implementation of the pre-demand settlement procedure was observed that most of them do not supply some key documents. Now the question is, if the law makes it clear what you need to deliver if you want to go into that pre-warrant deal to open up space so that you can operate in some normal and even more favourable conditions than someone who isn't... a bankruptcy settlement so that you haven't delivered all the documentation. Is this 75% that didn't deliver the paperwork practically a generation of new non-payments? It's a question that hangs in the air and that can really create problems which will only be seen in the autumn of the 11th, 12th month when certain indicators are seen. Because look if you have blocked 42, three billion kunas if you administratively delete a thousand, you write off two companies based on their claims to the state, their blockades in the FINA are done automatically looking at a great picture. A few months after law enforcement, you have 4.5.6 billion less blocked funds. However, when you look at the expectation that only a few thousand were submitted and that 75% of the incomplete documentation then points to something else. So this is just a topic of ministry colleagues having certainly more data and I'm sure they're looking very closely at these 75% and studying what they mean. So that's why I think it should have been done in this opening statement of the law one table to see certain things because look at you when you take these pre-fashion settlements from some 30 and so many billions of kunas written here, then you'll see that these 34 billion kunas are mostly falling off on a few dozen large companies that aren't in trouble. As of today, some have been in trouble for the last three, four years as an economic shirt and some a la Vartex who has been positively solved has actually been solved in problems for more than a decade. So these problems are different and maybe that's why she needed that plate. But Mr. Deputy, I have one here perhaps a suggestion but I certainly suggest you take a look at this, so this is an article 37, where it says if it is not completed within a maximum of 90 days if the Advisory Council has approved an extension of the deadline for the completion of the procedure. Now watch the advisory council is practically nowhere to be mentioned in the text. From where the Council of Advisory is now, and while the whole text is basically being passed by the settlement council, it would be logical that it gives a settlement rather than an advisory council. Where now, at once, the advisory council. So if you don't look at this article 37 so you can see if there's been a confusion and if there's a need to fix it because if you don't, I think a lot of the provisions in at least a dozen articles will be inconclusive because you have a settlement board everywhere. However, what I have actually reported most for an individual debate because my colleague Dalic in the HDZ Club has practically told all of our observations, to me honestly speaking this is why our club is restrained around this law. So we supported the law originally supported the regulation, and I really don't understand my colleagues and colleagues if we are in a good position to resolve the indifference of why the law should be built into each other's conflicts of people in the ruling coalition. Because look and let's not say that this is not the case, the provisions of Article 53 are nothing but conflict resolution when one coalition partner cannot go to the yard of another coalition partner to control the company, you look. Therefore, financial supervision within the meaning of this law is a financial control of the legality of financial material business, and is carried out in the case of companies whose majority member of the Republic of Croatia or the units of local, regional self-government, the owner of which shares in business shares is the Republic of Croatia or the local, regional self-government unit, which has a decisive impact on the management of which the Republic of the unit of local, regional self-government has founding and ownership rights. Why build it into a law that wants to help companies that are in trouble. So we have a series of repressive devices in this country that can exercise control. However, the owner of the business control of a particular company works through the supervisory board. This is based on the Company Act the strongest instrument of the owner. And now the owner has a supervisory board and now the owner is asking to be incorporated into the law so that he can go to exercise control. And now look who's going to be in control, says control will be done by the management of the financial management of internal audit and surveillance. Now that internal audit and supervision at the Ministry of Finance and other ministries I have established practically according to EU directives then it is known why this service exists, this service is not for this. We're going back to the width and we're going to get lost. Control in public enterprises can make the Tax Administration can make a State Inspectorate, it can do any state inspection if the owner, if the Resolute Minister or Minister of Finance thinks some things are happening there that aren't normal. But look here we're talking about a law that we want to help companies that are in trouble and then we're installing state-owned companies in that law just because some companies couldn't be controlled because someone wanted to exercise control because someone attacked him through the papers. And now we're going to settle it by law, and that's what's wrong and that doesn't lead us to good. And that's why the HDZ Club will not support this law. not because of the provisions that are being made on the pre-fashion settlement, so it's something that I've been supporting since the beginning, no matter what we think we should do differently, but you're the ones who have a responsibility and that's why we're going to back you up. But we can't, Mr. Deputy, support this article 53rd because I think that when a man turns around a little bit, he doesn't belong in this law. These kinds of mutual recommendations, etc., need to be resolved in another way rather than built into the law. Because look, it's even very dangerous. Are the people who do this job, which services are set up to control budgets and budgets that are one special accounting and special way of managing funds, all these societies operate according to international accounting standards, according to the Accounting Act and you in the Tax Administration may have 30 percent of the people who can control this. So there was also an outpost for large taxpayers so that a small number of people could be educated so that they could control these companies. So the question arises whether, in accordance with this paragraph, these people can carry out that control at all. So if you move this, we'll back up this bill again, if you leave really in some kind of internal conflict of yours we don't want to go in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44564	Thank you very much. The following came forward for the debate, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm probably a rare person who doesn't support any existing law or amendments to this existing law. The existing and these amendments to the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement are also filled with dangers and delusions and traps. First of all, there is no doubt that this law should not be called together. The Financial Business Act should be separate from the Pre-departure Deal Act. And these two things are completely separate and the Financial Business Act foresees the regularity of business and would ensure regularity and fluidity and payment and pre-departure is already part of the bankruptcy. And it should add to the bankruptcy law. The fact that I'm lonely when it comes to the assessment of this bill and these amendments and the proposal to supplement the law is still not proof that I'm wrong. In fact, listening carefully to the lack of analysis and all support to this law stems from an insufficient analysis of the existing and the impact of the previous one, and here is 7 months, 8 in force of the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement. And it points to many difficulties and maybe solves someone's problems, but the solution to someone's problems creates and multiplys other problems. I'll take just one example. Here's an example of one pre-fashion deal of 1001 creditors and more than 3 billion kunas. A pre-war deal will solve 5 religious people, but 996 won't solve the problems. And it was they who remained cut off as, for example, only the Hotel "Zdilar" will never charge 137 thousand kuna, the leather gallery "Stefanic" will never charge 72 thousand kuna,... 412 thousand or Agrotermo 450 thousand, and they had to lay off workers because of them, reduce the scope of their activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's only 995 in this one case. It is not good and I cannot support the law that the minister appoints in these situations anyone, let alone appoint presidents and members of the commission council, the settlement council. And then that settlement council is elected by the commissioner. It already gives itself the commissary character of a law like this. It has a direct impact on the Act on the takeover of companies and on the Law on credit institutions. And both of those laws were in line with EU legislation. The Government hereby and by this amendment exempts the obligation to take over companies when the believer acquires more than 25% of the shares of the target society. As it is possible that the law on takeover is foreseen when someone acquires more than 25% of the shares with voting rights, they must publish the obligation to take over society, and if they acquire it this way then they do not have to. So it can happen that a bank that can access shares in two different ways through fiduciary ownership of shares must be freed even within 6 months of the Credit Institutions Act and if it acquires them in this way through a pre-determined settlement then it does not have to be released and it does not have to sell them. So the same institution with the same company has the same shares. For one he must sell within 6 months, and in the other he does not have to sell. Where's the consistency? So what's the point? For the acquisition of shares in companies through a pre-profit settlement, only the consent of the CNB is sufficient, and what does HANFA do, what does the Stock Exchange do? Well, that's extremely sensitive information, valuable information. In this way, it is allowed for banks to settle their claims and instead to refinance them into equity shares, which does not reduce their guarantee capital. These investments do not affect the reduction of the guarantee capital. And an ideal situation. The CNB doesn't have to worry about capital adequateness, the finance ministry doesn't have to ask for its claims, the believer doesn't have to pay anyone, more taxes are foreseen, more employment. Well, we'd say the situation is idyllic. But it's not like that. The effect of the action these seven months is just the opposite. The effects are not what they expected. Why do individual council members resign? Because they are being pressured to act in a certain way. The banks didn't ask anyone who and under what conditions to borrow. But when they get into trouble, and they're on fire because 35 billion have unpaid claims, and 25 billion from the real sector, and the state guarantees them 90% of the security they're saving from the state, and now they're calling again to help the state get rid of them and they're going to take over companies as they've already taken over, history repeats itself. Let us only remember tourism and other companies and then will give their tycoons to the management, deliver to the management of these companies taken over and will later privatise them again as suitable. Well, we've already been through this privatisation process and it's been extremely negative with all the negative effects. But we keep taking care of individuals, not general ones. Therefore, it will be resolved, it is not doubtful that the problem will be solved to some but not to the believers, only to individual believers, and the problem will be solved to the debtor, and no model has been found to examine whether the debtor should be in debt or not, where the property is his. So you will admit that there is already abuse, that they are already applying for a pre-determined settlement on purpose they want to settle their debts in such a way but will be abolished. Many believers have been cut off in this procedure, and you cannot in any way convince me that they are not broken. The fact that nothing will change in the banks' balance sheets is not proof that it has not changed in the structure of the economy. And they won't be employed anymore. There'll be more unemployed after these pre-war deals. You'll only see that from the same exact data. Because we can't look at the economic phenomenon from just one angle. She never just hits her tail in one place. It reflects on the whole society. In general, the negative effects of this law are. And why actually resuscitate someone who doesn't deserve a recovery? Who caused all the difficulties of Croatia not only the economy and peoples as a whole? Has anyone checked where 3 billion and 200 million kuna are from this pre-war deal? Where did he evaporate the money 3 billion and 200 million kuna? Who took it? There's a daughter's society, there's a variety, everyone's looking. How is that possible? And because of such a single entity, and there are many other subjects who have come into difficulties and have not been able to pay their salaries, they have been in debt to the banks to pay taxes and they have paid taxes. And those you in the pre-departure settlement did not pay taxes, and this case also owes you to the Croatian State and to us all 20 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44566	Thank you very much. There is a replica of Honorable representative Drazen Djurovic on this exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44567	Thank you. Well, here's Mr. Maric, you understand yourself very well in the economy better than I do, and I have no intention of defending you at all. Maybe you're right, maybe you're almost right. But what you've defined as a whole is the problem of pre-determined settlement, you haven't come one step ahead. What this pre-fashion deal is about, from which condition and which would have been the way to resolve that situation if it hadn't started at all with one such initiative. I'm not defending her, I'm saying at all. As far as this money is concerned, the relationship between the debtors, the creditors of these huge debts that will never actually be returned justly, where is that money, where are those three billion kunas from that one? Well, that money, I think, was actually missing from those companies a long time ago. They disappear from pre-fashion deals. It only fictitically exists in some kind of claim, and has long been poured into the pockets of at least 350 millionaires in the Republic, those billionaires in the Republic of Croatia and all those smaller millionaires that the FORBS and other followers have not discovered in the Republic of Croatia. So that money's been spilling and spilling out of these companies a long time ago. And our problem is that we've never been able to get anybody in there and clean up from the ones whose money's been spilling over. And when I think about the commissary character of the law, we're saying that's one model of ethics. And I wasn't sure if he was the happiest, either, but if you look at the objective starting line that he's going from, the starting position that he's moving from, then she's a little different than if we're going to cut all these possibilities and the problems that occur in the process of applying it. And something else when it comes to the effects of what they're willing to do, let's try to figure out what effects would have been if it hadn't been done, some simulation of this guy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44568	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Goran Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44569	A colleague, Djurovic, owes the debtor to the creditors in a pre-profit settlement and solves the debtor's problem in order to charge the creditors. Who's supposed to decide that? Believers. This law is not decided by the believers but decided by the minister and it is not good for the minister to decide whether the HDZ, yours or SDP's. The minister cannot decide and appoint a settlement council, members of the settlement council, president of the negotiating council elected by the commissioner. What, then, do believers decide when the minister decides? That shouldn't be the minister taking over at all. It's a matter of solving and looking for models, but that's why I called this a commissary approach. Then what will the believers decide? The finance minister decides on the believer. So let them decide what to do with the company, whether to resuscitate it, whether to hire fiduciary property, or to convert their claims into shares, or to refinance and lend their debts on payment. That is what the believers decide, not the commissioner appointed by the minister. It just suggests that it's directed at someone's desired cause, but not by the believer. That's why I think this is a dead man's powder. And the powdering of a dead man can't bring a dead man back to life but only make his death better, but we end up doing the same thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44570	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the promoter, the closing statement will be given to the esteemed Deputy Finance Minister, Mr. Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44571	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a thank you for your discussion, and right away, perhaps I should start with this last thing that Reverend Maric said, I believe he wasn't there when the first law was passed, so maybe he doesn't know all the details about the settlement council. The settlement council is an administrative body, doesn't decide anything. So it runs the administrative procedure that when he takes the papers, when he receives it, when he sends it, when he leads it, there's absolutely no decision on the board of directors. It's not decisive at all. So it's someone who's running the administrative procedure, past the court's orders. And we've taken over on ourselves, the Ministry of Finance through the FINA, for the total cost of pre-price settlement to be led by someone. So it has absolutely nothing to do with the decision-making council. So decisions are made exclusively by the believers and if you see in the law there are also three groups of creditors of the financial institution, just to try to protect small believers in this part. You have one group are banks of financial institutions, the other are groups of states, so public enterprises and the third group are these little creditors that you have listed here that will actually have a worse position of their own. And we're in that part right now, so this is complete, so it doesn't matter completely administratively that they don't decide anything, only the creditors decide, and if the creditors decide not to accept the plan that the debtor, the company goes into bankruptcy, and the company can actually pass different rights. So, the first procedure is when they have financial institutions that have the right to participate in a facility first to say whether or not they give up their right to participate in the process at all. So, the full protection of the credentials and the small state and the state and the banks. And that's why they're divided. It's true what you said when in the whole part of it it's written off that unfortunately in this part little creditors can't compare to banks that have stronger and better positions, they have a right to be held hostage, they have higher amounts, etc., it's certainly not the same to write off a bank of tight interest and to a small one who has 30%. It is unfortunately true, but simply in this mechanism of deciding the accepted council where we have completely separated them and said you have a special right that if by percentage you are big enough that you can even vote against or for, means that you can form your own opinion, it is precisely possible through this law because so far they could not charge anything. Why? Because when the company went bankrupt, the bankruptcy wasn't enough to cover the liabilities. And who picked it up first? They just picked up banks, and the kid couldn't, not small or state, because they didn't have any clear rights to the facility at all. And they didn't write anything off, so maybe they'll write off 10, 20% or 30, and then they'll charge 70. In bankruptcy they will not charge anything because they have shown us the experience of the Republic of Croatia for 22 years that 30% of the companies that went into bankruptcy of the bank have charged only 30% of their creditors, they, not the state. They're nothing. So you guys watch out for real estate and you can only charge 30%, not say they can charge for something. So they can also vote against in the end if they have a clear right. We can agree, I can agree if it is not operational property that they can extract that distinct right and non-operational property from businesses if it is not necessary for the survival of businesses. That's what we've been doing with these companies where we've said all the non-operational assets you've got you have to get off the side because it's burdening you with your business and they can settle down if they have both small creditors and everyone who needs to not burden this part. Because there have been a lot of pre-fashion deals just that some real-estate business that invested is burdening the core business, i.e. the basic business of the company. And that's what happened in construction companies where we said let's separate the construction business and their operation so that they can finish the projects they have and that they get on EU funds and for the state to work to separate from real estate businesses. But they couldn't. Why? Because the banks didn't want to finance any further because they had a claim and they blocked their entire process of building operations for a year and a half because they were loaded with real estate business. They wouldn't give it to them. We said separate it. Take property banks if you want to be charged by construction firms, but let that construction company work. And that was the problem that for a year and a half the "Constructor" couldn't work because they weren't separated from those things. So, this is an extraordinary law that was later completed by saying with the Association of Employers and which is later and supporting it more and more because they saw in fact that certain shifts in the separation of that part of the business where banks simply had the status quo, since 2008, they have not wanted to move in the restructuring of that company at all. So as far as this is concerned, there is no influence of the finance minister in the overall decision-making process, and the whole process is public, transparent and on the website of the FINA you have and how you vote, who voted, so the whole process is public and transparent and ultimately has judicial confirmation. So the court's confirmation, eventually, and if there are any anomalies, if they happened in court at the end of the day, the court may annul the pre-fashion settlement and say you've guessed one or the other. So he finally has a court ruling, and that's why it's important to say that the whole process protects the credentials and that we finally have a clear confirmation that the company can continue to operate. Furthermore, here, what you said, truth be told, we have found in some pre-departure settlements that there are abuses of rights, and that can be actually the credentials under the Law on Commercial Society can be initiated if there are certain abuses of rights. What you were saying was that they pulled out a certain portion of the property and they know they can report it. Exactly, they do, but we said when is the Ministry of Finance together with the creditors that then we can if we run into such things block the process and actually run what you said when you asked where that property was. Yes, at that moment, the whole process is blocked, and we have strengthened it by the provisions of this law and we will not restructure it. We won't be restructured like that. There were cases where banks didn't want to confirm the existing owners who brought these companies into the same problems and then even suggested to us to outvote them, kick them out of the firm, we said we couldn't do it, they themselves have to do what you said to the new privatisation process, they themselves have to look for a new owner, no one can force them to kick them out of the company, not to say that they later abused their rights. So that's what we've improved even though they've been on the side of the banking sector just this part to throw out existing owners, so they can get a new one. We said no, without an existing debtor or owner you can't do that. You can't kidnap someone's company if... it can go bankrupt and this is just a pre-step of that bankruptcy. So we're giving it a chance before he comes to court to try to restructure it. If what you're saying, the creditors don't confirm or agree, you have somewhere where the creditors don't want it at all because they're well covered, they're going into bankruptcy, unfortunately the bankruptcy is going to be liquidated and the sale of those assets, and then unfortunately, in that case, it happens that the workers are going to go to the bureau. This is where you said you didn't have enough data. In fact, I've brought here 8.2 billion that have been resolved so far and 26.8 billion that are under way and I've been talking about the number of employees, I've also talked about..., even the sectoral part of my apology, maybe it should have been in the law that you know better about the tables. In fact, next time we'll step up and better explanations, the effects of the law to be seen. But here I brought you the latest data, the data three days ago that were the effects of a pre-demand settlement, the law is long before actually a day and in print so that maybe in that part we'll improve it to see the real effects and effects of pre-demand settlement and the reduction of indifference. I'm talking here again even though we said it's about a billion, 2 billion kunas in deleted companies, that the biggest part I've told you is because of the pre-price settlement process, and I've listed to you the companies that are in that segment and solved. Regarding this part of 90 days, yes, we are actually an advisory council is let's say the council inside, it is a different council than the settlement council, it follows the pre-departmental settlement procedure, and the settlement council is actually more monitored by the administrative overall procedure, while the advisory council is actually a council which... people, experts from several ministries, from various parts of financial experts who actually follow what is happening with this company and they give some sort of a proposal essential part whether this company should still be given an opinion. Of course, they will return it through the settlement board so that this settlement council in that technical section will confirm whether it should have 90 days or not because it can't, it's administrative. In fact, yes, but whether this company should be given an additional 90 days or not, as was the case with this one company here today, because we mentioned that and if there were certain administrative problems, we will try that, so it is important to bring it in as soon as possible to give it if another 90 days are possible if certain criteria have not been met in this whole process. And what's true here, there was talk of... documentation. There was a problem when we encountered 71 thousand companies in which to clean these companies because to start cleaning them up, the creditors must pay 10 to 15 thousand kuna, 20 thousand kuna for bankruptcy. They didn't have that money and then simply the believers said nobody wanted to take it, run bankruptcy procedures because it cost it. However, they have lost their claims, or obligations, to their claims from this whole process. And yes, perhaps some who applied to this part of the pre-demand settlement because when FINA now teaches that di to the court let's say opening up bankruptcy doesn't cost anything because the state has taken that part to regulate it to the courts and probably this part that hasn't reported its reports, or they've given certain white papers. In this way they avoided opening up the bankruptcy, those creditors who had already lost some of the money to give extra money to the court, and that way when FINA started bankruptcy, and this is how we said they would run because they weren't missing documents. In this part, the State takes over the regulation of relations with commercial courts to compensate them for the whole process and most likely the biggest in fact and part of those who did not report it have actually used this part of the mechanism to transfer this cost of bankruptcy to the state, which we will ultimately make up for from the whole pre-departure settlement process. The important thing is that we're on our way to this section and I thank you again for your support for this law. I think that it is very important for the Croatian economy and that it will actually give even better effects by the end of the year because as we see these solutions of pre-emption agreements are extremely important now, I will not say that we have started to be copied by colleagues in the neighborhood where they saw how they were trying to restructure the economy, even certain European countries when we presented them with a certain law they gave us a commendation in this part of the law, and you will see very quickly that in this way restructuring I think the decision was made last night and the minister also informed me that they have confirmed the restructuring of banks. You will see how in the future it will go when the bank fails in how the EU will be restructured very personally, the Commission has agreed that the banks in the future will no longer be resolved by the state, but that in a very similar way of this transfer... that the resolution of banks will be resolved because the many countries that have been resupplyed by the banks are now heavily in charge, they have major deficit problems, they have major debt problems. There's little money... the fund so that... which is very quickly passed will be on the Council of Ministers of Finance and you will see that very similar solutions and the problem of banks restructuring very much similar to that of this law. I thank you once again for your support and we will try to appreciate all your suggestions and comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44572	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Goran Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44573	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, you said you were protecting this law of the believers. It also protects her in that particular case that we're being instructed to protect, but if only two banks have a billion claims, what will 996 other small creditors decide on? Nothing. And if the minister didn't decide anything about the settlement council, the settlement council would elect the commissioner, and the commissioner would say the same thing when we say that in the bankruptcy procedure, the bankruptcy manager had not decided anything. They decided everything in spite of the Council of Prophets. But if you want to protect small creditors, or most of those who believe, then you would have to prescribe the obligation to take over and publish offers to take over companies for all those who take over more than 25% of the target society, if that is the law in taking over otherwise. Why don't you just provide for this law and protect the little believers? Then why don't they have a sales obligation within six months as usual when the bank acquires a share in a society, let's say you said the constructor, so if there are 10% in the constructor before, the bank has to be resolved within 6 months, if it gets this way then it doesn't have to be solved in any way it's the bank's decision. That's not good. And you haven't yet anticipated the joint operation of banks and pension investment funds owned by banks. That's not supposed to be here at all. They perform as individual and special believers, and they actually work together. This joint action affects other believers. And you have seen and the structures of individual debtors that you have licking this licking one or these banks and pension funds where they are co-owners and you didn't take this joint action into account and it further endangers the credentials of this majority of the credentials particularly small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44574	Thank you very much. The Honorable Deputy Minister, Mr. Boris Lalovac, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44575	Thank you. Regarding the Commissioner, the Commissioner is the same technical person who comes into the company and oversees the business of the debtors that he cannot abuse the right to act means he does not even lead. He's not that kind of bankruptcy manager. This is what the believers asked us to do when they accept the debtor and if the pre-demand settlement procedure is opened to set up a person so that they can control cash flows when they charge something that it can go evenly to all the believers. So he doesn't have any control function but a control function. And if it turns out that the abuses of rights he can do more as a control mechanism and he's also the same as this part of the settlement council is more of an administrative part. When you speak further about the lisins and these others as you know you good licking has an exclusive right and they do not participate in this part since it is owned by a licking house. And they, in these cases, differing from an exclusive and decisive right, can independently extract the object of the lising and sell and do not participate in this process. What you've been saying about investment funds and other societies they are being classified as part of financial institutions but, however, if there is still a need to develop certain voting methods. And as far as the great credentials are concerned, unfortunately, they've decided by our bankruptcy law, which in the most part are creditors and the best had the status as I had said the kid didn't charge themselves, I think this is a step forward that we've given small creditors the opportunity to collect a certain part of the claim. The truth is, they won't be in the part that they might want, but what I've told you so far has been the practice shown in the Republic of Croatia that 30% of the claims were charged by the banks, and these others had to write off their own. So this was one step forward and if you have that we're open and ready for all the suggestions, and that's why I thanked you once again for the contribution to making this law even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44576	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the text of the final proposal of this law, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44577	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 413. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by representative Zlatko Tušak. I'd like Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44578	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted because the payment of workers' claims in the pre-demand settlement procedure is ensured by the fact that workers are the holders of priority searches. They shall not participate in the pre-fashion settlement procedure because their payment is secured throughout the entire course of the pre-demand settlement procedure, and shall refer to all the contributions of workers and former workers who have been created during the whole process in fact. Moreover, what is the pre-fashion agreement procedure that the debtor is actually under way during the pre-demand settlement procedure declares that the entire pre-fashion settlement process will not affect the claims of the credentials. Once again, they are priority and in fact workers do not participate in them, and that is how they are provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44579	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Tušak Zlatko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44580	I am not satisfied with the answer because before the opening of the pre-departure procedure, workers do not receive salaries based on the accounts they are given to undertake for unpaid salaries at the time of the opening of the pre-departure procedure, these charges shall be suspended. I ask the question who will suspend the duties for these workers who have not received salaries on gas, electricity, TV subscription and other obligations they have to their families. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44581	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the respected representative Zlatko Tušak, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that most 80 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 38 abstentions are passed by law P.Z.E. No. 413 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44582	We would now move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the State of Host Contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and RACVIAC of the Centre for Security Co-operation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 422 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was submitted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. And we'd go straight to the debate about it. On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the first member of parliament, Dunja Špoljar, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44583	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. RACVIAC Centre for Security Cooperation as an idea and project was created as part of the Stability Pact as early as 1999 launched by Germany and proposed as a joint project of the Republic of Croatia. He began his work as a development headquarters in June 2000 by designing and equipping the Vojarne Vitez Damir Martić facility in Rakitije as a permanent centre. In early October 2000, by signing a bilateral contract between the Republic of Croatia and Germany, RACVIAC, which starts working as a multinational regional aid centre for the implementation of an arms control agreement for all Southeast European countries. A technical contract has also been signed between the MORH and RACVIAC which regulates their mutual obligations. RACVIAC supports arms control agreements, organises English language courses from weapons control terminology, as well as other different seminars, conducts seminars on the re-use of military facilities, real estate and staff. It also organises civil seminars on military contacts, co-operation in Southeast Europe, regional dialogue, defence planning and military budgets, democratic control of the Armed Forces as well as strengthening stability in Southeast Europe. Trust and security measures, regional cooperation in the fight against illegal trafficking in small and light weapons, aid and disaster procedures, surveillance and border management. In these 12 years RACVIAC has hosted more than 9,000 participants and lecturers at more than 290 activities. RACVIACA personnel are military and civilian representatives of 14 countries. The administrative body is a multinational advisory group representing representatives of all 20 countries involved in RACVIAC. RACVIAC has continued to adapt and has extended its arms control to security sector reforms. The signatures of 9 countries, which include Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Greece, Croatia, Macedonia, Romania, Serbia and Turkey and another 14 associated members and 6 other observer countries, have become an international organisation with the task of supporting and promoting security dialogue in Southeast Europe not only between the countries of the region, but with their international partners. Thus RACVIAC is a recognizable brand and wider than the region of Southeast Europe. Today, it is an internationally independent academic, non-profit regional-owned organisation. Its primary mission is to strengthen security dialogue and co-operation among Southeast European countries. A multi-year transformation process has been successfully completed. RACVIAC is important to Croatia and Croatia is important to RACVIAC. As host country Croatia provides technical and logistics support covering all current so-called directorial expenses. He's got the highest-ranking officers and officers. Croatia contributes to global security through the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in international peace operations and missions under NATO, the European Union and the UN. Along with RACVIAC Croatia supports and participates in other regional, security initiatives. The RACVIAC Treaty was confirmed by the Croatian Parliament on 5 November 2010, and entered into force on 1 December 2011. Article 19 The contract has been established that the Republic of Croatia and RACVIAC will conclude a contract on a host country to regulate their legal relations with each other. Thus, in Zagreb on 11 April 2013, the Treaty on the Host State between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and RACVIAC was signed, and its entry into force will complete the RACVIAC transformation process from the regional initiative under the auspices of the Stability Pact into an international organisation, the first such type based in the Republic of Croatia. RACVIAC can in the long term help achieve a common need for better security cooperation not only in the regional but also in the international environment. The SDP Club supports the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the State of Host between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and RACVIAC of the Centre for Security Co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44584	Thank you very much. The next one, on behalf of the HNS club, will be spoken by distinguished representative Boris Blažekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Confirmation of the State Host Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and RACVIAC of the Centre for Security Cooperation is confirmed by the existence of the only permanent international political organisation on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. The approval of this Treaty confirms the international personality and international integrity of RACVIAC. Unfortunately, in the Croatian public, very little or even nothing about RACVIAC is known. In the HNS, we believe that RACVIAC is an extremely potent regional security co-operation organisation that is increasingly growing and can become a place of various regional international agreements and talks. Because of its importance, we believe it is important to meet the general public with the foundations of the organisation of the structure, business and objectives of RACVIAC. RACVIAC Centre for Security Cooperation is a diplomatic international independent non-profit regional academic organisation responsible for its members. RACVIAC was established as a regional aid centre to verify the implementation of the arms control agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a clear aim of ensuring arms control, establishing trust, strengthening security measures, expanding cooperation in Southeast Europe. Since 1 December 2011, when that agreement ceases to apply, the RACVIAC Agreement shall enter into force, thereby reorganising RACVIAC with a common objective of responding to future security challenges. With a common desire to strengthen regional stability, the centre extends its action to bring together comprehensive political and military issues, including security issues aimed at defence communication, data exchange, international and regional co-operation with a focus on Euro-Atlantic integration. RACVIAC members are Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Greece, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia and Turkey full members of Austria, Denmark, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Russia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Great Britain, associated members of Canada, Moldova, Poland, Slovakia, Ukraine, the United States of America. At the head of RACVIAC is the director of the level of ambassadors of one of the Member States elected for three years. The political executive body shall be the MAG-International Advisory Group, acting as the main committee in which all members, associated members and observers are representatives. RACVIAC is financed primarily by membership fees, but also by various donations. In addition to membership fee, Croatia donates space and co-financed and directed, as well as some other periodical projects. RACVIAC is already said in military "Vitez Damir Martic" in Rakitije and is fully equipped with modern office spaces with all necessary technical assistance. It has a conference hall with 2 additional halls, a small hotel, a gym, a restaurant and an officer's club. RACVIAC strengthens its mission by promoting security talks through the promotion of the security sector, arms control, European and Euro-Atlantic integration, as a strengthening of security confidence measures, joint efforts with international organisations such as the United Nations, NATO, the EU, the OSCE and all other organisations of common interest. Cooperation with the Regional Cooperation Council and with other regional initiatives and agreements. He talks and communicates with civil society, academic communities and the interested public. In carrying out its RACVIAC mission, it is managed by the values of adaptation and understanding, impartiality, credibility, mutual respect and faith, responsibilities and reliability, flexibility, integrity, openness to new challenges and improvements. RACVIAC aims to further contribute to the establishment of general stability and security in the region, to build experience achieved through control mechanisms and other trust and security measures to the benefit of the region and beyond, to promote security reform and to promote regional co-operation in the area of defence exchange, to promote the European and Euro-Atlantic integration processes, to support security and defence policy of the EU and to its relationship with NATO against the strategic concept. Permanent cooperation with regional organisations, institutions and initiatives of similar purpose and work while expanding the international network of co-workers, encouraging regional international security cooperation to effectively reduce transnational security threats including terrorism, restricting weapons of mass destruction, organised crime, all forms of illicit trafficking, illegal migration, climate change, the protection of computer communications and other possible threats. Use of pre-experienced experience to position RACVIAC as a selected partner in strengthening security cooperation and dialogue in the region. RACVIAC implements 30 different activities, seminars, courses, workshops, meetings, conferences, round tables, etc. RACVIAC's activities are tied to about three main pillars. The first sector is security change, the second environment is security cooperation, i.e. arms control and third international and regional co-operation aimed at Euro-Atlantic integration. Therefore, the RACVIAC Centre for Security Cooperation is a diplomatic international independent, non-profit, regional academic organisation responsible for its members. This shows a wide range of RACVIAC activities and its communication with various international security organisations and institutions, civil society, academic communities, political institutions. Security and defence and international co-operation in these areas today have a completely different connotation than before the fall of the Berlin Wall. And in our region, security and defence are experiencing a completely different treatment than 10 or 20 years ago. International interstate and regional co-operation, communication itself, as much openness and trust as possible are the main tools of security in the world. RACVIAC is a place where it is possible and it is necessary to practice these tools in regional security cooperation together with other organisations such as the UN, NATO, the OSCE and... Security, security policies, weapons production, defenses are now much more than a rifle on the shoulder or a tanker in the tank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a huge spectrum of human activities that develop science, economics, education, communication skills, and the development of entirely new industries. Security includes a huge number of people with a wide range of safety techniques and technical assistance from civil spheres to war. It produces all possible product types. From clothes and shoes through food to the smallest chips, powerful computers and the most modern incredible vessels, aircraft and land vehicles. Laser to nanotechnology, fiber technology, satellite and space communications. A so-called Military research ultimately leads to a civil use solution that makes everyday life easier for citizens. As convinced pacifists, we at the HNS want this military arms industry to finally be reduced to tools and aided in civil protection. But unfortunately, we're going to have to wait very long. But we shouldn't, and we can't give up on that goal. One of the best, most efficient ways to go towards this goal are organisations such as RACVIAC. Croatia as host of RACVIAC must take advantage of all opportunities that this household offers objectively and realistically on equal relations with other members. The HNS Club will accept the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the State of Host between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and RACVIAC of the Centre for Security Co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44586	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Zvonko Milas will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here are the more or less colleagues and colleagues who said almost everything about the bill of approval of the State Host Treaty. It may also be said that RACVIAC, or the Centre for Security Cooperation, was preceded by the establishment of a regional verification centre, the implementation of arms control. However, given the threats of terrorism, global threats of peace, I do not know the constant development and all other changes in the security environment of the state have approached the reorganisation in a way that military-security issues have started to spread to a spectrum of security issues. So, from a military-oriented organization, it's transformed towards a civilian or we can say academic-oriented organization. And RACVIAC has been held more like a brand that is recognizable in the region. It's not like that for us, but abroad, so in this part of Europe, it is. It thus turned from the multinational regional centre of RACVIAC into an international organisation to promote stability and security. Germany, i.e. Italy, in view of the regional character, has ceased to be a full member, but Germany, in particular, remains a major support which, in a financial sense, in the professional sense. So, in concrete projects, so in 2012, she also gave 72000 euros for the centre's work. The process of transforming the centre from one regional initiative under the auspices of the Stability Pact will therefore be completed, so the first such type based in the Republic of Croatia. The centre itself, therefore, has 30, which includes 30 countries, 11 from the region, 14 associated members, 5 countries in the status of observers. So funding is based on membership fees. In particular, Croatia participates with a membership fee of 48000 euros, and the reasons for giving active support to the work of this centre for Croatia are, therefore, from being a host country. So, which is the headquarters of this organization Zagreb or more specifically in Rakitje. And another is the area of action related to stability and security in the region, which is one of our most important foreign-political priorities. The contract itself, therefore, defines the concepts relating to the establishment of a legal framework where the personality of a centre such as the coat of arms, the scope of the privileges, the immunity of staff who must carry out their tasks, and the content cannot be spoken of in any way because it is defined by the previously concluded international contract. Therefore, at this stage of the procedure, the simple content cannot be changed or complemented. That's it. The HDZ club will support the final proposal to confirm the Treaty on the Host Country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44588	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the text of this final bill, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44589	Final draft law confirming the State Host Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and RACVIAC Centre for Security Cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 422. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that, unanimously with 121 votes, the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the State of Host between the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted by the Centre for Security Cooperation in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44590	We would now move to the next point, which is - The final proposal of the law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the second technological development project, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 421. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. We don't have a single club, no MPs, so I would also open up and conclude a debate on this point. And we'd cross over, of course we'd vote on it when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44591	Final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the second technological development project, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 421. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find that it is unanimous with 120 votes to pass the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the second technological development project in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44592	We would now move on to the next point, which is - The final draft law on amendments to the Media Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 404. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Information, Information and Media, and you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go. The Honorable Deputy Minister of Culture, Prof. Berislav Šipush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, academia Reiner, ladies and gentlemen, dear MPs and advocates. Here are a few more words on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Act with a final draft of the law. The provisions of the Media Act will be deleted before which they do not regard publishers as natural or legal persons who have not entered the activity of publishers in a court or other register in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with this or in particular law, and having regard to the fact that publishers who have the right of business established in another EU Member State and other Contracting Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area are entitled to the principle of freedom, the provision of services temporarily or periodically carry out the activity of publishers in the Republic of Croatia without the obligation to register their activity. Furthermore, it will be determined that a newspaper publisher may establish and register in the Republic of Croatia as a legal or natural person, provided that under the conditions laid down by law he has a seat and office in the Republic of Croatia, but a provision is added which excludes the citizens and legal persons of the Member States of the European Union and the Contracting States of the Treaty on European Economic Area from the obligation to have a seat or place of residence in the Republic of Croatia in order to be able to enter the activities of a newspaper publisher in a court or other register. Therefore, they can carry out their activities permanently in the Republic of Croatia if they carry out registration of activities in a judicial or other relevant register and have an editorial office in the Republic of Croatia. It will be determined that a newspaper publisher established in another EU Member State or in another Member State of the Treaty on European Economic Area may carry out the activity of a newspaper publisher in the Republic of Croatia on a temporary or occasional basis in accordance with the provisions of the laws, services and the provisions of the Media Act with the provisions of the Criminal Law, in a manner that, for natural and legal persons and natural persons of the craftsman and trader of the individual person are specifically governed by the offence and determines the level of penalties in the minimum and maximum amount. The adoption of the proposed law will bring the Media Act into line with the Internal Market Services Directive in a way that, on the basis of the principle of freedom in such a way that, on the basis of the principle of freedom of provision of services and freedom of business, citizens and legal persons and publishers of other Member States of the European Union and other Contracting States of the Treaty on European Economic Area, the right to carry out the activities of publishers in the Republic of Croatia and the breaking provisions of the law on the media will also be brought into line with the Violent Law. We remind you that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44594	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Minister of Culture. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to be on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate. If you would like to say something about this law, you can say that this is the best proposal of media laws that we have received from the Ministry of Culture in this conference, but not because it has brought something new, which has solved some problems in the media or something else, but because it has simply brought the media issue into line with the legal property of the European Union and that it has complied with the law at the end of the law. We spoke after this speaker several times when we talked about any topic in the media complex, saying that we looked with approval at the first statements of the culture minister that they would first adopt a media strategy. This law was to be followed as the first law after the media strategy, followed by the Law on Electronic Media, then the Law on HRT, the Law on HINA, etc. We made everything the other way around. We made the reverse so that we first changed the HINA Act to change the administrative council, so we changed the HRT Act so that we could make shifts there and bring new leadership and the situation is what it is. Here we have practically two years of media strategy, and for the first time in a parliamentary discussion of the Media Act, and this is about changes and additions that we can assess positive and acceptable, and it is acceptable that this is in line with the Criminal Law, it is perfectly fine to give citizens of the European Union that they can also have a seat and place of residence, fees as they are entered into the register and that is something that cannot be objected to. What's the problem is that after almost here for nearly two years, a year and a half, we haven't introduced anything else in the Media Law about media issues. That's the problem. It is not a problem that we have today in our proposal to amend and supplement, but the problem is that for a year and a half we have been listening to how we should adopt the Media Strategy and how the media in the Republic of Croatia should be arranged, and this is not happening for a year and a half. What's going on, anyway? We have amended the Law on HRT against the opinion of the European Commission. Okay, we and a lot of other things are doing against the European Commission, but that was one of the first moves. We have defined the principle of political consensus, the choice of leading HRT people in this House on the basis of political consensus. Yesterday, on the Programme Council, a programme scheme for autumn fell unanimously to you, so you don't even know how HRT will go from autumn to autumn as well as what, in what time it will show. ... The program scheme of colleagues, summer and autumn, so read it again. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But if we don't fight like this, you can replicate me. You've had your editor's shifts. In one week more than 40 people were changed on HRT, after which we had a few times shift in the editorship of the information program. One of these shifts followed a very effective press conference called by Prime Minister, Prime Minister of the Government, who had previously claimed that he was not interested in the information programme, so he did not notice that in an information programme, for example from President Obama's inauguration, a fashion designer who compared Michelle Obama with his wife was reporting. It didn't bother him at the time, he found it appropriate to do so. All of this comes from an eclectic conflict of interest, so we have the head director of the HRT, who the Committee for Conflict of Interest, estimated to be in conflict of interest. Afterwards, the commission estimated that the new head of HRT technology was in conflict of interest. Today, portals write about the third person from the new set of conflicts of interest. Is there anyone in the new lineup that isn't in conflict of interest? That would already be much stronger and much more important news. At the same time you have a letter from the Croatian Audiovisual Centre that accuses the new leadership of HRT that they have not received the means to produce domestic audiovisual content, which is one of the crucial obligations of public television. At the same time, you were suspended from the transfer of the Parliament to the second programme and was transferred to the fourth, and on the fourth, the whole session of the Parliament is not shown, so last week at 6 p.m. when we are discussing a European arrest warrant at 6 p.m. you could watch the rerun of "Good Morning Croatia", at 6 p.m. The Croatian third programme of HRT has not yet been brought to life as it should and as it should have been under the Government programme you could never see a single show where an opposition representative will be invited to comment on any events related to television, media policy or cultural policy. Not a single time. Not a single time. We're really making progress on the media. And how much of the majority of us here in the Croatian Parliament care about this is evidence that we have not discussed the Report of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board for 2011. We're pushing him on the agenda every time he gets lower and lower, and we've heard these pompous words about how during that debate, I don't know what illegal actions he's going to be doing. I'd like it very much, but we can't get to the next level of concern for the media scene. What happened to HINA? The President of the Governing Council of HINA, who appointed the Council for Electronic Media, even though we asked the parliamentary majority not to do so, the Committee for Conflicts of Interest, established that the lady in conflict of interest, etc. etc. etc. Of the 5 appointments we've had under the new package of amendments and the addition of Media Law 4 are in conflict of interest, 4. At the same time in HINA, 30 cancellations are being made. Vesnik's archive that was in HINA is moving to the Croatian State Archives. No one's talking about where there's gonna be funds to support that Vesenik archive. 30 quits. Great culture management. You come in nice, you tell her we're having a hard time, we're doing bad business, we don't have enough money, 30 jobs. Taxing all those who were not in favour of the arrival of the new director who came in accordance with the coalition agreement from a party's speech to the Kukuriku coalition. Excellent cultural management. So why didn't we get 60 quits so we could do better? Why didn't we go to HINA's and cut the VAT when we talked about VAT here? It didn't occur to us. Maybe it would help HINA more. Vjesnik's archive, which is one of the cores of memory, is a journalist's memory that is moving to the State Archives without insurance. What happened to the press? Last week, we had a debate here when we discussed VAT when we made it clear and we expect, of course, constitutional lawsuits, so we caught the famous 25000-word scheme. This does not exist in the European area of media legislation. The number of words determines which medium will have a higher VAT rate, which will not have a higher VAT rate, but we are fully aware of what we are waiting for. I remember well when a respected colleague, Dragovan, asked him about a potential media tax, said I don't know if he has a ministry. And I'm very sorry that every time on such sensitive subjects here in this chair, there must be an honorable Mr. Shipus I know doesn't do that part of the ministry. We are preparing to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Media where we plan to take money from pluralism for the development of local TV and radio stations that employ over 2,000 people and assign them something called a non-profit medium. At the same time, there is a budget item within the budget of the Ministry of Culture of nearly 3 million kuna, which is intended to do so and it is not yet enough to finance similar portals, but to be taken from local radio and TV stations in this year 3%, and will be further specified by the regulation, in order to finance who and why, by which criteria, by which they compete, which the council will decide not to write. Two pillars are media independence. One is a permanent system of funding that exists in public television through subscription and another is choice. What are the non-profit or independent media that you will finance from the budget determined by the Ministry of Culture not on the basis of the Regulations because it does not exist, not on the basis of criteria because it does not exist, not on the basis of issues of public interest, because it is not prescribed, but on the basis of whether someone is profitable or non-profit, whatever it means. So, at the same time as the Ministry of Finance, I am sorry that the representatives went to the Greeks how to close all budget minuses we simultaneously invest millions of kunas in what we call non-profit media just because they're non-profit and they don't earn anything, and we don't even ask them if they write about public interest, which topics they process and by what criteria that money will get. Freedom of the media, media freedom, let's not joke! At the same time as you add up those two items, ladies and gentlemen, they are approaching you with a sum of 5 million kunas. 5 million kuna in the budget of the ministry is foreseen for all archive activities programmes in Croatia. So, at the same time, we give almost equal money almost, approximately as much as for all the archive activities of all the archives in the Republic of Croatia from Dubrovnik to up to Varazdin, to Vukovar, to all archives and all archives that have programs to protect the written material of the Republic of Croatia that preserve the complete written memory of what administrations, which companies of this people and these spaces, not just the peoples. As for these amendments and the addition of this law, I believe that they are well done, that they are harmonised as needed, but we are very sorry that this law did not follow in more comprehensive amendments and additions, which we think was the time. We are very sorry that he did not come behind the strategy and we are very sorry that these changes and complements are practically technical in the context of what is happening in the media policy in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44596	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Damir Roman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44597	Dear Vice President. Dear fellow Mesic, therefore, in your public address you mentioned that you also referred to the Ministry of Culture and the Kukuriku coalition as bringing changes and supplements, or if I understood correctly, so I built the house not from the foundation but from the roof to the lower. So you mentioned that the strategy was to be adopted first and then the new Media Act, and then the amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media, and you also mentioned the Law on HRT. So assuming you're going to answer my line, I'm wondering why the Media Strategy wasn't passed, say, 10 years ago. Then we'd have solid grounds for a serious debate at this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44598	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44599	Here before I answer you specifically, exactly, it has not been adopted, it does not mean that it should not be brought now and does not mean that those strategies that have been adopted do not mean that they should not be applied, and do not apply, stand below the tables that have been brought into the Ministry of Culture. When a package of laws was passed, the Law on Media, the Law on Electronic Media, was first passed. The Ministry of Culture has not been in charge all the time in the legislative sense of the Media Strategy, otherwise the Media Strategy would likely be adopted. And if you remember, every time I talk about media laws, I say we've positively welcomed the secretary's statement that she will bring in the Media Strategy, but it hasn't been passed, but it hasn't been passed. And I remind you that the media packages of the laws that came to this House at the time that you mention have been passed by unanimous colleagues and colleagues, and the Law on Media and the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on HRT and the Law on HINA because they were properly done, otherwise you probably wouldn't vote for them, I suppose.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44600	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He's not present, so the club is losing the right to discuss this point. And on behalf of the SDP club, colleague Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44601	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. So in my debate on behalf of the club, I'm going to try to speak affirmatively, and I'm going to stick to the subject, so I'm going to talk about the proposal for a law on amendments to the Media Act. The fact is that the media in the Republic of Croatia should be regulated because, as we all know, they are quite unsettled because of their lack of existence, but we can also say bad media strategies in the years before. So, before us are the other additions and amendments to the Media Act, which represent how counterpart Mesic also said compliance with the regulation, or legislation of the European Union. Therefore, the Media Act currently in force, or the existing one, regulated the conditions under which publishers can carry out public information activities. The emphasis in these amendments and additions to the Media Act was primarily placed on three articles, i.e. Article 9, Article 10 and Article 11. Article 9 clarifies that the publisher is obliged to carry out activities in the field of public information in accordance with the provisions of the Media and Special Law Act, and by carrying out his activity, the publisher may issue or produce different software content for other publishers, as well as the technical transmission of software content. What is very important in the amendments and additions to the proposal of this law is Article 10, which put in an unequal position, therefore, natural and legal persons who are members of the European Union because they were prevented from implementing the principle of freedom of movement and services and freedom of business created for the service provider. Thus, according to the current law, a legal or natural person is the one who entered into the activity of the publishers in the court or other register, and all those persons physically and legally who did not do so were not considered to be guilty of the existing law. Article 11 of the existing law defined that a newspaper publisher can be established and entered in the court or other register as a legal or natural person if he meets certain conditions of the Media Act, i.e. that he has a seat or residence in the Republic of Croatia, or that he has an editorial office, only an editorial office in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the citizens and legal persons of the Member States of the European Union, as well as the State Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area, were previously suspended as they did not consider the publishers to be natural and legal persons who did not register the activity of the publishers in the judicial or other relevant register of the Republic of Croatia. Since the publishers were not considered to be natural and legal persons who did not register the activity of the publishers in the judicial or other relevant register of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, publishers registered for the activity of publishers in another country within the EU or a country which is a Contracting Party to the Treaty on European Economic Area may also amend this law on a provisional or programming basis to carry out this activity without obligation of additional registration in the Republic of Croatia under the Service Act. In addition, such publishers do not have to have a seat in the Republic of Croatia but are sufficient to have only registered activity and to have their own editorial office, which actually makes natural and legal persons within the EU equal to the market conditions within the Republic of Croatia which is very soon becoming, so for just a few days a full member of that community. Article 11 of the existing law was in direct coordination with Directive 2006/123 of the EC and of the European Parliament and of the Council on services on the EU internal market, more specifically Article 16(2). But also with the Services Act within the Republic of Croatia Article 15(2). As a result of these new amendments and additions, i.e. by proposing amendments and additions to this law, the existing Article 10 is in fact deleted because the urgency is that no new country that will become such as Croatia must become a member of the EU should not restrict the freedom to provide services if the other provider has a business establishment in another country which is an EU member or any other country which is a Contracting Party to that specific contract on economic space. Therefore, in this case, the Republic of Croatia cannot impose an obligation on the provider to have a business establishment not in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And what is very important is the modification, changing, supplementing, supplementing Article 11 relating to newspaper publishers, so that citizens and legal persons or countries which have previously mentioned the Treaty on European Economic Area are brought to a level playing field within the EU and the Republic of Croatia itself, noting that these legal and natural persons must comply with the provisions of the Media Act when carrying out the activities of publishers in the Republic of Croatia. Since the first amendments to the Media Act have been 10 years since the first amendments to the Media Act, since it was the last one in 2004, and the first changes have not been made in 2011. Therefore, these amendments and additions are regulated and the infringement provisions are much more precise than was settled in the existing law. Therefore, the range of fines for both natural and legal persons, i.e. for the natural person of the craftsman, but also for the trader of the individual. And as I have said, these more precise infringements are very detailed in articles, amendments and additions of articles 60 to 62. It's over. The SDP advocates' club will, of course, support these changes and additions to the Media Act. But I would like to personally get one answer from the ministry's representatives, so by reading from the law but also by reading the proposal to amend and supplement the law. Therefore, Article 12 of the Treaty on the The press law is defined as reporting the publication of the press, i.e. in a register run by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Therefore, in the proposal to amend and supplement the law, I did not find that both foreign or conditionally said natural or legal person originating in the EU will only have a registered office or office in the Republic of Croatia whether they will also be sign-in bonds in that register at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or not. So that part is personally unclear to me, and I'd like to have more complete information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44602	Thank you. Comrade Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44603	Good with most of the exposure of an esteemed colleague can agree. However, any problems with governance or a media-related legislative framework have not been able to overcome so many conflicts of interest in such a short time. That's never worked for anyone. I mean, it's definitely an absolute record, which is a shame. The team is more a pity if the policy was announced that media strategies would go and we responded positively to that. It's a shame. It'll all come back to all of us together. Now you already have losses on Croatia's unending radio television, you have a constant decline in ratings. In HINA you have cancellations, the Vjesnik has been shut down and at the same time you have a non-transparent sharing of money with something called a non-profit medium. I don't think that's a good way for the media, it won't benefit any of us, any of any parties. At the same time, public television doesn't send money for domestic audio-visual production. Well, it's a question of cultural identity, it's a superseded thing. This really has nothing to do with HDZ or SDP anymore. But if you think it was that bad before, then let's put this report on the table in 2011 so we can discuss it for the media and especially for the television. And the 2011 amendments were made on the basis of the conclusions reached at the meeting of the President-in-Office of the Republic concerning a more accurate determination of ownership. These were very short changes. On the basis of these amendments, which were adopted at the meeting in the Office of the President of the Republic. This has led to these changes, and this law is really mature for comprehensive analysis and comprehensive change. Unfortunately, here we have only a consensus with the EU and we regret that it has not gone more comprehensively into this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44604	Replication response, Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44605	I would suggest that we leave the debate on non-profit media to discuss when the Law on Electronic Media comes because we will speak much more then. So, what I have with the information I think it was also said on the Parliamentary Committee on Media, Information and Information that the ministry has joined the development of a media strategy so there will be opportunities to talk about it as well. And I agree that your inquiry has nothing to do with HDZ or SDP, that in some things it is a matter of common sense and common sense. But also, the Law on Electronic Media and the Media Act are so similar that perhaps in the future, their fusion and their unification will take place. So, I suggest that we leave the funding of non-profit media behind the agenda point when there is a debate on the Law on Electronic Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44606	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44607	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, I will speak on behalf of the SDSS Club for a few reflections on this bill. It is quite simple but the problem that opens with these changes and supplements is not easy, we do not think it can be put into the context of these few nomotechnical changes. But, well, I agree with my predecessor colleague that we need to speak affirmably about this legal text, of course, only it, of course, of this legal text that introduces us in a different way to a new period. So media space has always been an interesting thing, media space in the world today is a very profitable thing, a thing and political manipulation, and if that's how it works with media space. Therefore, we are now coming with this legal text into the situation that the situation of a fully open competition in the field of media space. And it's perfectly normal that we should talk about it that way. With this compliance with EU gains, we have made it quite normal, and this has been expected for foreign publishers to register with us under very simple formal and legal conditions and carry out publishing activities. They have not been able to do so until now because they have had a number of administrative obstacles that have been assessed to be incompatible with the environment, i.e. formal legal conditions in other European countries. They are also allowed to carry out this activity on a temporary and occasional basis, which is the same from the explanation here, from the interpretation we read is so simple in EU countries. Infringements that are significantly stronger are also coordinated, therefore more repressive for certain behaviours. That's the thing that's encouraging because it's trying to bring order into this whole activity, that it's not being analysed specifically right now, but we think it took more restrictive and restrictive criminal provisions to essentially be prescribed. For thinking in any case, it's this new circumstance. Therefore, when discussing this new situation in any case for thinking and the question of competition to be opened in the media space between domestic and foreign foreign foreign foreign capital inflows. We need to be aware that these foreign publishers will also consume the right of the benevolent VAT that we discussed and discussed some time ago. And what is not negligible in any case is their impact on the formation of public opinion. So also through a political dimension, and in any case through the dimension of capital that comes with such an open market and I think we have to be prepared for that. Because we have in the media space and concrete examples that have certain capital behind them and certain political connotations. In any case, I would also support a fellow Mesic who at one point said that this should have been preceded by a media strategy. I agree that one whole media strategy should have been adopted, so before we enter into one new and legal and life circumstances. We think that with this strategy, then we would be better prepared for these new situations and I think that we would then remove many shortcomings from the legislation. And this was also an opportunity when we had already dealt with these changes and additions to the Media Act to take deeper and try to sort out the whole problem a little more complex than this formal legal part that we've been talking about. I would take the opportunity here of course to say before entering the EU and before these new circumstances to say, I also have a need and obligation to point to the position of media dealing with the problem of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, I will start with the funds, so according to the latest media report dealing with the problem of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, some 2.5 million kunas were allocated last year. I'm not going to analyze this right now because if I were to compare it to a minute then we'd come up with an interesting fact of how much funds were allocated just for the media monitoring of members of national minorities' programmes, that's a minimum amount, an almost ridiculous amount. It should also be said here that the minority print media is due to the limited problem they are dealing with and will in any case have a problem using that benefit of a smaller VAT because their problem is such that those in these printed media can hardly cross this censorship that we were talking about to have a privileged VAT. Despite the little shifts and the increase in the budgets we said when we analysed that they were not enough, some unresolved long-term problems remain. I have to make this particularly clear here, apostrophe of the insufficient representation of national minorities in the 1.08% programmes on an annual basis at both regional and local level. So no emissions in the languages of the national minorities that should have been yet to be realised have been the order of minorities that should have been the same, the content of topics for national minorities does not present media life while mainly social or cultural topics are sub-represented. So they are missing by our kind of common position and the assessment lacks emissions that would treat issues of public interest as well as for members of national minorities, and in any case interesting and majority people. Emissions are mainly brought down to folklore, tradition, cultural life, culinary, etc. What is special and still relevant if we all know there is still some intolerance or tolerance to the hate speech in the media, and there are no real reactions, and if these reactions are in any case not strong enough. I would also say here that the government has committed itself for certain measures to improve this situation. So the government in its cultural section programme advocated a change in the media treatments of minorities but mostly at some kind of declarative level. The government has pledged to establish effective mechanisms to implement domestic laws and the International Convention to prevent hate speech against members of national minorities both in public and in private national and local media. Under her responsibilities, the government will at least say it advocates the establishment of the Serbian-language editorials in public media. Of course it wasn't done. The government has committed itself through the Media pluralism Fund to provide institutional support to minority media. We could talk about this institutional support to minority media and analyze what has been done in the last two years to improve and correct this situation. And not to go any further ahead of EU accession, minority redistributions have been announced to improve the picture of minorities in the public and to positively sensitize the public. Of course that didn't happen. A new minority policy in the context of the EU needs to create certain media models in which minorities would not be treated as some kind of likable neighbours who like dancing, whining or caring for strange customs. The new models should, in any case, deal with real life and a bunch of problems that live together naturally in the community with the majority people. Finally, we think that the amendments to the law also open up a formal possibility for foreign trustees to work on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and the possibility is also opened that domestic treasures are equally tried on the EU market. This certainly opens up the possibility for these publishers dealing with the problem of this population that I have taken the most time to deal with the problem of national minorities' policies to carry out their publishing activity in a wider area of the EU, of course, as some new challenge and new experience if they are prepared in various ways for such work. How we will cope with this, who in all ways will go through under new circumstances remains to show time. In any case we will accept this text of the law amending the law because it is as it must be, it may not be different but we still think that this was now an opportunity to take a deeper step in the text of the Media Law of things that I was talking about in some way put in place and get better quality done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44608	Thank you. We have two replicas. Clear Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44609	Thank you. Dear fellow Horvat with regard to minority programmes or redactions, or programmes that should be funded from the Pluralism Fund, will be even fewer colleagues if part of the money from the pluralism fund goes to what I said would come to us with the Law on Electronic Media. As far as the government's culture programme is concerned, it's only really declarative and it's practically on willow because the obligations are prescribed in the five-year contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I don't think it was signed by the Prime Minister. It refers to a period of five years.2011. We didn't want to sign a five-year contract but for a year so that the five-year contract could be prepared. It is the basis on which public television can collect subscription and there, in percentages, writes for both radio channels and television channels as much as there must be a minority program. As much as it says there, no less can be done, no matter what it says in the government's cultural programme, it will not because it is the basis that the EU is looking for because of the competition, if there is no contract, there is no subscription. As for competition in the media space, you mentioned there and the question of any political control and manipulation, you know, the phenomenon of the Internet is much reduced and much less than it was before. Today, there is a much greater danger of manipulation than large, economic corporate circles than politics. And what do you think political control is bigger when there's more competition or less potential? So the greatest possibility of political control on the public service financed by either the subscription, whether from the wake, is much greater than on the private market, on the basis that readers buy it or subscribers click on their websites. That medium is much more independent. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44610	Damir Rimac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44611	In your discussion, you referred to the new circumstances of Croatia's entry into the European Union, the new environment on the market, and in fact raised concerns about the competition of foreign publishers. Or the issues of forming a public change. So my personal opinion is, I believe that there will be positive competence in that case. And from my own experience, I can tell when positive competencies occur that there are always positive results. And what my colleague Mesic said, so the fact is with the appearance of the Internet is that the possibility of manipulation or influence on these media decreases is that in fact anyone can be here if you take us MPs, we all have smart phones or tablets and we all look at different independent portals where we get different interpretations and different political views on the same topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44612	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44613	Thank you. Well, I'm not a Eurosceptic, but I've expressed a practical reserve because we're entering a space that we don't know. So, with this Law, the amendments we've arranged normally, however, life warns us daily or somewhat less that in this area in the field of competition there is stronger, richer,... Politically more powerful than all these others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why would media space be different from that? So I've just expressed one way to prepare ourselves for something we still don't know and the question is are we completely ready for a game like this that opens up this legal text for us?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44614	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44615	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen. It is a good thing that this law today is on the agenda two days before Croatia enters the European Union. Just two days, why he had not been to the debate before and why he had not been brought before, we can assume, there are various reasons, but here are two days before Croatia's entry into the European Union this law is on the agenda. And as there is the idea that the European Union becomes, in some period of time, mainly when it comes to financial resources and to the European Central Bank, one Federation is, in fact, introducing Federation elements in this segment and these are the media. In our current media space, I might use too much of the word is a little polluted, infected. In line with those who make editorial policies, who stand, the circles behind editorial policies, and so is the media space politically divided into several segments and what we read in the media daily is really so much I would say nakaradically and so concisely on any of these sides that it's so obvious that to say that and to read small children would see where the media tends. I'm talking about a political tendency. When we talk about what Mr. Mesic was saying then I would say that a goal was achieved that someone still there in the 40s said stop Reuters because he wrote about FNRJ or SFRY about Yugoslavia as he wrote. In fact, we are talking about the Croatian news agency HINA, which is definitely falling apart. Here, was this the goal of actually corning the coalition to destroy HINA and in a way that it really said I would be inappropriate, unscrupulous and catastrophic. Yeah, yeah, it's destroyed HIN. Furthermore, what kind of public media is Croatia's television where one of the editors says, informatively speaking, that 700 thousand people are signatories to petition for constitutional changes that they are patients and that they should go to treatment. Is there a right to a public television editor, I stress publicly because he is also an editor for these 700 thousand people who are watching too, I guess one of them is watching television to declare that the signatories are therefore a patient who needs to be treated. If I were the director of Croatian television, I'd be replaced right now, but I wouldn't show up on TV anymore. But no, he progresses, he advances in his role, in his devastating role. Furthermore, says Mr. Horvat here, I didn't want to replicate to him that it's important that in the media, that there is no hate speech in the media. He meant, above all, national minorities to say, to minorities as he says. But I would like to ask the question whether minorities have the right to speak hate through their own media funded by the taxpayer of the Republic of Croatia. Is there right for one newspaper to publish a picture of the late President Tudjman with horns and big fangs? Is that hate speech, and everything that's written there, and I read it regularly, and I follow it. Read and you will see what hate speech is against the majority who live with them every day, with which a crust of bread is divided, with which is divided by the poor that has advanced in the Republic of Croatia. And now here are the foreign media with headquarters and editorship in the Republic of Croatia and they will enlighten us, not HINA. HINA needs to be trampled, destroyed, not allowed to reduce VAT on its services, which are 25% unlike the media of others with 10% VAT. No, HINA stayed until the end and with decisions and these governments at 25% of VAT can't stand it that way. If someone has 10% VAT, and HINA 25% simply can't handle that game. And with a number of other circumstances that I wouldn't be talking about right now, without saying "unprotection" by any Government of the Republic of Croatia and those before, and especially these today. Which will bring us a media competition, a media competition, like a football game. Europe and its media moguls, its clusters media entry into our market, and then we will see, according to the objectivity of writing and the fact of who will actually survive in that media space. Can we even think of a reverse effect, that a Croatian media owner would go to Spain to write and destroy El Pais or Le Figaro or France, that's fine, thank you fellow Mesic. But I think it's meant to be known, I didn't think it was in Spain at all. It is hardly possible to assume that any Croatian publisher will publish a media, newspaper in Spain or stand behind them. It is said that there will be competition in which the feathers will then be sharpened and it will be better quality writing and more objective publication of what the media are writing to you and what they bring. There will also be an impact on public opinion. We know the impact on public opinion now. And now the groups that are standing, and we still don't know who's standing, I'm not going to speak the name of our diary, which we don't even know about the ownership structure. Behind some radios in Croatia we do not know the ownership structure, behind some televisions we do not even know the full ownership structure and what we are talking about. Competition and public opinion, whether public opinion will be so shaken, shaken, changed by the entry of these new media houses into Croatian space. Nowhere like this law, except for the Law relating to the European Central Bank, which also tries to Federation in Europe, so to determine even budgets and budget levels and everything else. Nowhere like this law does Europe actually introduce a Federation or a Federation as this law is now being introduced, so the introduction of public opinion by some on the side. I don't mind, let anyone who wants to think, let them write whoever they want, clearly according to those certain regulations in our media space again. But again, we have destroyed our domestic Croatian news agency. I guess that was also the goal, I repeat, stop Croatian Reuters, the goal of this government. And here are 30 fired, conflict of interest in all possible places, starting with the editors of television, HINA, ask God where not everything is. And the 2011 Programme Council report we haven't even heard or seen, the transfer of the Parliament, they're spinning people's channels from 1 to 4 HTVs to catch a council session to see who's talking, who's showing up. So this law in light of the brightness of our Croatia's entry into the European Union in two days, and here in the light of the proposal, that is to say, the promoter proposed by the Ministry of Culture, is simply difficult to avoid, given that Articles 10 are deleted, and Article 11 is amended and read, according to the directive, the directive means a provision. The directive can be translated as a provision of gentlemen who do these translations, the directive is a provision of the European Union. Therefore, provision 123 of 2006, therefore, speaks of freedom of media space and possibilities of action and beyond the borders of the headquarters of certain media companies. So in this light, it is clear that the HDSSB club will also be that this law will be adopted, but I must express the revision, the indignation with what I was talking about, the destruction of HINA, our domestic agencies and the pollution of the media space in the Republic of Croatia and the public media, which I was already talking about in my speech, without any consequence of what people say, responsible people say on Croatian television as public media. Therefore, the HDSSB club will accept this legal proposal on the media with a final draft of the law two days before EU entry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44616	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44617	Dear counterpart Grubisic, could not have gone before with this law because it was necessary first to amend the Law on HRT and to make changes to the ruling structure on Croatia's broadcasting, so it should have gone with amendments to HINA so that it simply did not arrive with this law. I'm not so afraid of the arrival of foreign publishers. Today, we at Deutsche Welle can read that indeed Croatia has experienced a diplomatic slap by not coming Mrs. Angela Merkel, while in some of our media we can read that Mrs. Chancellor is busy with other duties, so that she does not come. Therefore, it is not bad for some time to have more sources on many sides to read... But what I agree with you media space is really divided. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can even tell you on the channels and on the lists, but also on the SDP, the HNS and here's related to HINA, there's also the Retirement Party and it's very attractive, very active and very attractive. And now to go 30 cancellations with a number of these people being pushed into a temporary pension, which will increase the number of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, and we will see what else will happen to HINA and how it will all end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44618	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44619	Thank you, fellow Mesic. I see you're on the trail of that one saying the Prime Minister said when he was at Mrs. Merkel's. I guess that's why it won't come to Croatia, because the Croatian people say it's paradoxical, so it's said. I think Mr. Prime Minister is a Croat, too. That's why paradoxical laws are being passed on to us. But as far as the media is concerned, you've actually said in your replica everything I've said, so we've just complemented ourselves, it's not really a replica, because the thinking is quite similar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44620	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44621	Thank you. Well, you mentioned this when it comes to VAT 5 or 10% for printed media how many fights, whether it will be one medium, two, five, whether it will have 25,000 words, 15000 words, I don't know how many. And when it comes to HINA, so about Croatia's news agency, no initiative, no desire, no trace, no amendment, no proposal, no public support, let's say that HINA has reduced VAT to information given that it is a Croatian national agency. You also mentioned the problem of media ownership, private media. Perhaps this opportunity is also reminded of the initiative which was about 2 years ago on 15 June 2011, when the then Prime Minister and the current president of the state tried to establish the ownership structure of the media and despite the fact that the whole state's summit opposed it, the entire NGO jumped to it and eventually failed to identify and clearly define the actual ownership structure of the media operating today in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the printed and electronic which is almost an incredible phenomenon. So we're not talking today. After that, there was virtually no longer any serious initiative, political in general to try to actually figure out who actually manages the private media in the Republic of Croatia and who are actually the owners of these media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44622	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44623	A colleague, Djurovic, not only manages private media, but I said they pollute the media space of the Republic of Croatia, not to say they poison the opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have the right to access information. There's a law on the right to access information, and yet here's the 8 after 2 years of trying to know or finding out who owns certain private media we don't know. You still don't know that, whisper, whisper. I'm not talking names here right now. I've got some tips or stuff, but we really don't know that. How will it be when this law is passed? And one more thing. When you're talking about 25,000 words, so I'm just curious about who's going to be counting the newspaper or who's going to be the ally and in word or not the ally, and in word, it's very interesting this definition that she's set up here to say this ruling majority exactly at 25,000 words. If some newspapers have 25,000 and one letter and then they have no rights that follow from those 25,000 words.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44624	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44625	Thank you, dear colleague Grubisic. So I have to say that there are good media in Croatia, it's not all so black. The example of excellent media is Croatian radio and HINA, were. But it is undeniable for the media to be classified and ideologically determined because it could not have been done without media negative connotations when one of the more influential in the media says he is not in conflict of interest although the commission has found that he is in conflict of interest, even though the law says he is a state official, he says he is not a state official. He's the law. And the media is keeping it quiet, though they're still taking over for him. You said you didn't know who the media owners were. So who owns anything in Croatia is hard to find out, not only the media but also the biggest companies. And it's not a problem not knowing who owns it, it's why they're hiding it. That's the essential question. Why are the owners hiding? Well, just so they don't find out where their money's from to own, because they don't have the ability to be the owners of what they are about the property. As far as VAT is concerned, selective policy and promotes the desired and suppresses the unwanted. It is obvious that there is an official policy of unwanted media for Croatia. And it's HINA. And there's wanted newspapers. 25,000 words mean that without a point, without a sentence, we can only print 25,000 words like that and still be 10% of the VAT rate. And one remark, I don't think I'd agree that HINA has been given out. That's what they don't give out, they restructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44626	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44627	That fellow Maric, yes, in other words, is not a cancellation but a restructuring as were the banks of the '90s and some other years, so now we know whose hands they are in. It's similar with the media. It's also true that it's no problem to find out who owns it or at least have it in your ear to find out why it's being kept secret. It's your very good thinking which is why it's being kept secret, and most likely from exactly what you said. So the problem is how someone could even acquire such a medium. Unsolicited media, you said that the media is ideologically committed, not ideologically, politically perhaps more specifically politically committed to politics itself, right? There or here is it, red or black, blue and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44628	The final word of Deputy Culture Minister Mr Berislav Šipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44629	Dear Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Here's a few sentences on the MP's remarks. Here Mr Mesic was the first in this discussion, I would say that mostly now the remarks are more about the general picture of the media policy in Croatia than with this law, and we will probably more polarise or discuss and coordinate attitudes when it will be on the agenda and the Law on Electronic Media. I would not now enter certain arguments or statements related to HINA or HRT seem irrelevant to the debate over this law, specifically this law. Mr. Rimac had a specific question, i.e. whether the newspaper publisher is now going to appear from the sea abroad or whether he should also apply to the register being taken to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. He also called for article 12, where he writes a press release. In any event, the register shall be kept at the HGK and without the application of the press release or distribution declaration itself, the HGK shall be obliged to enter the relevant publisher in the register. In this act, we will practically learn all relevant information about the publisher himself, which is not from the Republic of Croatia. Second, i.e. colleague Horvat had one series of questions and doubts about the activities of the media related to the interests and activities of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I will mention that it is the Law on Electronic Media that regulates and finance media that are important for me to quote: "national minorities in the Republic of Croatia". I believe that it will continue from this Fund to promote pluralism and the diversity of electronic media that will succeed in funding and so on. minority media, that is, media that have activities related to national minorities. However, I am not any evil prophet as perhaps Mr Mesic, so I would argue that these funds for the financing of the media that are part of the activities of our national minorities will now be reduced. For what? Why would those 960 thousand kunas that are now scheduled from that fund be rerouted to the so-called so-called. non-profit media wouldn't go for the financing of some media, which is how I'm going to say part of the activities of some national minority. I hope that's exactly how it's going to be, and that's going to show exactly what part of that definition is, in fact, non-profit media. I think those who monitor the activities of national minorities are exactly and could be. It's a culture, it's a tradition, it's a heritage, it's their life in this environment. Here, so much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44630	Thank you very much. Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44631	I have to, thank you, Madam Vice President. I have to replicate to a respected deputy minister, if part of the media pluralism fund is detached for something we call non-profit media, whatever it means, and in other words, it's portals that most likely have associations because they don't have a label d.o.o. Then I'm not sure we have the same amount of money left for minority programs. The second thing I said was that minority programmes were prescribed in a 5-year contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the HRT and there is a percentage of it. I wish I wasn't a bad prophet, but everything we said about media legislation in this House has unfortunately come true. I wish I didn't have to point that out, but I just had to. So I'd really like it here this time if my words didn't come true about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44632	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Would you like to answer? I'm closing the debate on the bill. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44633	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Media Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 404. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 33 abstentions are passed by law P.Z.E. No. In the text proposed by the applicant, 404.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44634	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on the Common Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products and specific measures and rules relating to the market for agricultural products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 423. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate, and the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, and you received reports at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44635	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal of the Law on the Common Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products and specific measures and rules relating to the market for agricultural products regulates the application of 8 EU Regulations in the area of the agricultural products market, and as key, we set out the Council Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the application of this law, the Republic of Croatia adopts the implementation of European measures and rules which create assumptions for the application of measures to regulate the market for agricultural and food products through a system of market interventions and specific production rules which create a stable market environment for producers themselves and a system of trade with third countries where the market for Croatia becomes protected from wider market disturbances to the EU system and is also an additional element of market stabilisation. In doing so, the cost of implementing these measures is largely on the EU budget and the expected annual budget savings for the Republic of Croatia are estimated at €80 million. In addition to market regulation measures, this law introduces European rules in the sector of strong drinks, the wine sector and aromatised wines, which establish production rules, rules on the protection of origin and the labelling and presentation of these products on the market. Furthermore, a system of information and promotion for agricultural products is being introduced in order to develop the market for agricultural products within and outside the EU, which enable Croatian producers to run promotional campaigns for their products and therefore to achieve support from EU funds. Furthermore, the frameworks for the financing of the common agricultural policy or mechanisms for the control of the entire system are being introduced. Therefore, in order to implement EU regulations, this law lays down the following issues, the agriculture ministry shall be designated as the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation, the paying agency for agriculture and rural development shall be designated as an implementing body. The tasks of the competent and implementing body have been established, a legal link has been established between the provisions of the EU Regulation and the rights and obligations of legal and natural persons in compliance with the rules imposed by the EU Regulation. The competent authorities of the exercise of administrative inspection supervision and the provisions of infringements have been laid down. Finally, the adoption of this law has created all legal assumptions for joining the common organisation of the EU agricultural products market in which, in addition to the great indirect benefits through the market protection and stabilisation system, Croatia can also make direct benefits by withdrawing funds of support estimated at an annual level at around 30 million euros. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44636	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44637	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before I begin my debate, I can also say congratulations to the Minister for being with us every time when it comes to the laws of agriculture. What it is and rarely happens from other ministers in this government but Minister Jakovina really thank you Minister. And finally on this bill of law after Mr. Secretary's presentation, I'm still gonna come back a little bit as little yesterday in the past. We must remember this difficult chapter, chapter 11 that has been negotiated. Chapter 11 opened on 19 April 2009 and closed on 19 April 2011. Croatia was to present an implementation plan in order to fully prepare for the application of the single regulation, therefore, this is not the chapter but in that section of the Chapter when it comes to the common agricultural policy. And exactly what the Minister said and what we are talking about today in this law is the Regulation of 1234/2007. It would be unfair for us to be a member of this agricultural law in this day and in two days' time we will also not remember Minister Cobankovic, who has indeed been with his team and the HDZ government, but also with everyone here in the Parliament who has supported in reality all the measures and laws made great efforts to make this chapter 11 well negotiated, in order to ensure such a good framework for Croatian agriculture. And that is, that is, the fact that they were able to secure 373m euros in the second pillar in the first pillar, 333m euros, and let's say for demining 9.6m, for winemaking 745m, a total of 5.5 billion kuna per year, and that's about 6 million kuna a year in total. It was not an easy and simple task, legislative harmonisation should be carried out since it became a common agricultural policy, meaning that in the European Union there is a single common agricultural policy and that full legislation relating to agriculture, food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary protection as a single fisheries policy was something that was part of the aquis. And we were practically in the agriculture sector exposed to almost 50% of the aquis and the Ministry of Agriculture really negotiated it well. I think today is why we can be happy to talk about this bill. This job is why it's well done. In one of his presentations, former Minister Cobankovic said why he was finished and what shows the conclusion of the negotiations but also had to be removed both formally and informally. One of the significant informal standards may have been even harder than some formal standards. Because there was also a question of reforms, support in the Republic of Croatia. A very difficult task from one support system was to move on to a system of unrelated support. And, of course, it was supposed to be done on stages. The first stage was in 2009 when most of the related payments became unrelated and the rest were the only sensitive sectors. And finally, the reform can be said to have been the end of 2010. The situation was very complex back then. However, it should also be said that the Republic of Croatia has set itself apart from most of the new members, the so-called companion. She's set herself up for what's-his-name. The SPS regional model with part of the associated payments, which means that the regional model with related payments to suckler cows and sheep and goats and the possibility and with the national reserve of payment rights for sensitive sectors. And I must say that the Republic of Croatia has identified milk, tov cattle, sheep, goats and tobacco there. Here, because of all of this and because we really are in harmony with this law, I am not going to repeat it now because the minister has really said everything. The HDZ Club will support, of course, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44638	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44639	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates. Common Agricultural Policy Common Agricultural Policy until 2020, I listened very often during plenary debates and in Strasbourg, and I was also a member of the Committee on Agriculture these 14 months and their sessions in Brussels, so I am quite familiar with the facts of the common agricultural policy by 2020, CAP, as the English would say, so commo agricultural policy. Today, two days before the entry, now on the agenda is the Proposal for a Law on the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products Special Measures and Market Rules for Agricultural Products with the Final Proposal of the Law. So the label is E, European 423. And in this material that we received on the bench today, it says that the law governing the markets in agricultural products includes the following measures to regulate the market, so, market intervention, public intervention, support for private storage, special intervention measures, adaptation of offers to market requirements, etc., rules for the production and placing on the market, prior recognition of producer groups, and recognition of producer and sectoral organisations, obviously related to the attraction of access funds, trade with other countries, import and export licences, customs quotas, export quota for sugar. There has been a lot of talk and debate these years, and there has been a debate on tails from Serbia and sugar production in Croatia, so the tail that has been grown in Serbia and providing support or financial assistance to another country. Furthermore, specific measures for certain sectors. It does not have Milinkovic here, colleagues of Milinkovic eating on milk and milk products, sugar, wine and hops. Furthermore, this material on page 4 says this, so let me start in order. The strong alcoholic beverages sector is defined by Regulation No. 110 since 2008. We know exactly that strong alcoholic beverages when converted into cities 2.5 degrees one city that is about 50 liters 18%, 15 builds alcoholic drinks per, so right to private, personal use, production up to 50 liters. Which, given Mrs. Sumrak's speech, is a bit of a habit for our people of hospitality and other festivals that happen during the year of the crisis and baptism and everything else, even the lipstick is relative and I would say very little. For wine producers, I am talking about, not aromatized wine and aromatised drinks, which is about 1,000 liters a year, which is a quota for private use, production and private use relatively come God help. Here we have a problem with, when we talk about this second, so about aromatised wines or drinks, then this Prosek again we can say today could be in this debate also current, about registration of Prosek on the European market under our name. But what I particularly wanted to mention is that, by agricultural policy and by you as Minister and your government, but I would say a little of the previous ones, we have come to the conclusion that we have thrown milk production and livestock production on our knees. When there was talk of excise duties, you remember that I said that about 32 million support for pig farming was provided in the budget of the Republic of Croatia and 64 million kuna support for tobacco producers. Twice as many tobacco producers as pigs. And what's going on? About a year ago, Mr. Minister, you might answer me, if I don't, I'll ask you in writing and you'll answer me in writing. In view of the lack of meat, the lack of meat and the fact that pork is really thrown on the knees, importers are given, importers are issued to certain importers in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm curious about who gave them, how much approved meat imports are in tonnes, and how not all of them had the same rights to import meat than they were determined to be, so they had obviously more rights to get an importer than others. That is why I am afraid that despite what the E code is wearing, this legislative proposal will actually lead to the fact that imports of agricultural products, even more like tsunamis, flood the Republic of Croatia, and that meat that is imported, which we buy in the trade chains today, will not speak the name of the goods house, is like gum gum but not right away in the first minute of chewing but after half an hour you have about that feeling, you have neither the taste nor the smell of domestic or our pork meat. A different roast was bought in one of the shops and roasted equally in the same way in the oven from the one bought by our peasants and baked also in the oven. A completely different flavor, taste, smell. Since we are therefore done with the entry into the European Union, it is difficult not to avoid the provisions of the common agricultural policy or the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products under these measures and the rules that have been signed and adopted in connection with the signing..., hence the final contract or accession contract to the European Union, there is no point in being against this law, the legislative proposal. Although I am convinced that by the basis of this law and all those importers and measures that have been adopted, I know that you did not betray the importers, Mr. Minister, so that they would not find themselves offended, and I know who betrayed them, but to whom and why, and not to anyone else, it is a big question and that is why I say that the HDSSB club is going to follow the events that are coming to us in 2-3 days for this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44640	Thank you. Miss Sumrak has a replica of your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44641	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grubisic, now in that replica, I should actually have one debate, and I don't have time for that. But I wanted to tell you this, you've touched meat, you're importing meat, and you're simply afraid of, of course, and with the right to do domestic production. However, by setting up the common agricultural policy, I think that our agricultural policy can be equally well regulated and that so far it has received frameworks and guidelines for editing, and that our consumer of Croatia is already very well aware and is very careful about what is written on the declarations, where the meat, who produced it, is well aware of that already in some chains. Unfortunately, in some domestic trade chains, you can find imported fruit and vegetables and imported meat in the middle of the season, and perhaps 500 meters away are flat wheels, indeed the largest vegetable I would say in Croatia. But what we hope for and we are sure that this government will continue, assuming that it will really care for the improvement of Croatian peasants, it is in one part and through tourism. So it's not just exports, exports, we have to be aware that, through a tourist offer, in an invisible way, we really export a large amount of Croatian agricultural products, and that's what we need to strive for. We must do this in our opening speeches and in the Parliament, but I am sure it should be part of the national agricultural policy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44642	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44643	Comrade Sumrak, you know that pork is produced in Croatia about a million tonnes a year, and Croatia's needs are between 4 and 5 million tonnes. This means that about 3 to 4 million tons of pigmeat is imported, and then talking about placing domestic meat on the sea, it's really hard to figure out which meat is being placed. ... is placed what was at -40 when the former minister explained that this meat was sanitaryly correct, at -40 per 20 years frozen for Brazil's war reserves or I don't know Argentina, whose were so brought to Croatia, sanitaryly correct but I said about taste and taste and smell like chewing gum chewed for one half hour, approximately. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44644	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44645	Final draft law on the common organisation of the market in agricultural products and specific measures and rules relating to the market in agricultural products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 423. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find it unanimous with 120 votes to pass the P.Z.E. law. No. 423, in the text proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44646	We move to - Final proposal of the Veterinary Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 424. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, and you received reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44647	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly and the Members of Parliament. The main reasons for the adoption of the new Veterinary Act are to ensure full compliance with the Internal Market Services Directive and more effective enforcement of inspection supervision. Let me also briefly remind you that the applicable Veterinary Act was adopted in 2007 in order to achieve and open the negotiations themselves in Chapter XII – Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy, which the European Commission has assessed with success, which is what the Republic of Croatia has actually successfully fulfilled as well as the previous 2007 law. This proposal for a law constitutes a roof law in the veterinary field which is specific to its content, since it uniquely merges national provisions with EU provisions into one whole which regulates the veterinary territory. Veterinary purposes within the meaning of this law include: the protection and control of animal health and welfare, the prevention of zoonoses, the provision of health-real and harmless products of animal origin, as well as other activities of veterinary public health, as well as the promotion of animal reproduction, and veterinary protection of the environment. As pointed out at the outset, this proposal provides for the implementation of 34 EU veterinary regulations. The current Veterinary Act contained provisions which would become directly applicable on 1 July 2013, so the content of those Regulations should therefore be removed from the national legislation which was made by the proposal for this law. In addition, this proposal for a law for the purposes of implementing the EU regulation sets out the competent authorities, administrative inspection measures, and infringement provisions. Furthermore, this bill lays down a legal framework for the most comprehensive and complex legislative area in the EU acquis with almost 300 EU rules in order to ensure full compliance of national legislation with the applicable EU veterinary regulations. The Veterinary Act was already adopted in 2007 when it was first brought into line with the requirements of Directive 2006/123 on services on the internal market. In addition to the part relating to the concessions for the collection and heat processing of animal products not for human consumption, it was in line with the requirements of the Directive in question. According to the applicable law, concessions can only be granted to a domestic legal and natural person who meets the technical, professional and organisational conditions. This bill has always removed the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and is now fully in line with the requirements of the Internal Market Services Directive. In the section relating to the national part of the provision of this law, they are not substantially amended in relation to the applicable law, except in the section relating to official veterinary, pardons relating to official veterinarians and veterinary inspectors. Namely, although they meet the same professional conditions and carry out similar tasks as veterinary inspectors, the official veterinarians could not carry out inspection controls in veterinary organisations and quarantine facilities, nor submit criminal or criminal provisions. Therefore, this proposal for a law provides for a change in the job title of an official veterinarian to allow official veterinarians to carry out all the tasks as well as veterinary inspectors, and thus more effective inspection of the implementation of veterinary regulations as well as the fulfilment of the basic veterinary mission, which is to protect human and animal health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44648	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in the debate is on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, counterpart Djurdjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44649	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Why is this law important? It's really a roof law for us who do veterinary work. And I would now take advantage of the opportunity to respond in one way and to my colleagues Grubisic that he must congratulate all veterinary inspectors other than those who have sinned in the law and who have cross-border missed some products that did not satisfy veterinary-sanitary or hygiene-law prescribed conditions either of these products of animal origin or of certain other products. Indeed, the veterinary profession must say that the profession, which not only deals with animal health and animal health, is through it, which is far from during Maria Teresa for the first time and is organized to protect and protect the horses, because then the horses were the only means of transport and very important. After this, really by the development of veterinary, the treatment in the wind, the veterinarian has gained status, I must say the status of national interest, because in addition to the protection of animal health and the protection of human health is closely linked to this health care I must say here I can tell the epizothological situation throughout Croatia. So thanks to our esteemed fellow veterinarians, we simply don't know any more zoonotics, we've eradicated some of the diseases that are still in place in other countries. But also our profession in Croatia received all the recognitions, not only of the EU but also of world recognitions. In the area of the Republic of Croatia, we have 59 veterinary cells, 138 infirmarys, 4 clinics, 1 hospital, 102 veterinary practices, 102 veterinary services, 18 control bodies, of course the Veterinary Institute, then we have veterinary pharmacies and what is most important is our Veterinary Faculty of Zagreb, which is indeed a nursery not only academics but also experts who are recognised worldwide, who publish their works. I have to say that in some things we were first, that we were doing embryo transfers before the embryo transfer worked in human medicine. And it wasn't just for experimental purposes, but simply the embryo transfer was working to improve the stock fund. I also have to say good results we have in artificial feeling, we have excellent results in the education of agricultural economies and farmers. Because being a doctor of veterinary medicine or a veterinarian or a veterinarian on the ground isn't just about being a doctor, a doctor with a bag, it's about being an agro, being a forester, being a psychologist, just living in the field with those people because getting into their house and letting you into their yard and in their barn he let you into all his problems. Because most of the problem of Croatian peasants is really in the field and in the barn. And since here we are now harmonising as the minister said, and I am simply using this opportunity to talk about veterinary itself, and these laws have been exhaustingly difficult for this negotiating chapter No. 12, equally safe and well negotiated, and in that part, here he is, and there is a colleague who is also a deputy minister, and the minister said we got all the congratulations. I would like to take this opportunity from this booth and thank all my fellow veterinarians and colleagues, especially all of our teachers, because they have taught us to look differently at life and act differently in life, because they have taught us to love nature in reality. Each of us, not just a fellow veterinarian, are both agronomists and foresters, so all these professions that are somehow connected to us experience the world differently around us. We may not be the best economists sometimes, maybe we don't understand numbers sometimes, but believe us, we understand problems, and that's why neither here in the Croatian Parliament nor in the past, there were many veterinarians, there were not many agronoms. Today there are two vets, I don't know 3 or 4, the teacher is here, I mean the same agronomics, colleague Mandic. And when we meet on the boards then there are no specific considerations, even that political aspect we are somehow trying to move away, and we are trying really to go to the benefit and look for the welfare of not only Croatian peasants but, and here I have to say, our nature too. Here it is, I used these few minutes on behalf of the club, I used it to sort of talk about vets, especially about them I'll talk about one more, two more sentences because I think that my colleagues in the wind, especially those who work in the field, need to bow down because they still have to stay there, they need to get up at night, they need to go out in the field, and I need to keep the family what I have to say, here and my colleague Grubisic laughs because he's also his wife, a veterinarian, which is a great task and a great sacrifice. But I think that's how they need one big card. And I'm sure while there's good veterinary, while there's good laws and our universities and our good students and all of us on the ground, or people working on the ground, there's not a lot of them among politicians because they don't have time to deal with politics. As you can see, politics deals with them. But here today I was glad he was also a representative of the Croatian Veterinary Chamber, and we invited him. I would like to see much more involved and in the work of our debates to help us to represent the views given that and on the board, it is said that the Croatian Veterinary Chamber has been accepted by a lot of their proposals, they are included here in the law and therefore I will support this law on behalf of the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44650	Thank you. Replica has a colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44651	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague twilight that it is true that the teacher, veterinarian, doctor and priest in the village have always been the first thing in the village, right? ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah. However, when you talk about veterinary in the Republic of Croatia, you have also counted the number of veterinary cells and clinics and private practices, etc., but you would ask that some occurrences occurred during this 20-year period of free, independent Croatian countries in which, for example, Croatia is located. One such large and beautiful veterinary station as Slavonski Brod Veterinary Station has disappeared with over 50 employees of veterinarians. Mr. Majdak's veterinary records are gone, former Deputy Prime Minister. I wouldn't want anyone. So many things happened in the veterinary industry that you didn't talk about in your pledoaje about this congenital because these things weren't congenital at all, or Slavonski Brod Veterinary Station or what happened with the Mountain Veterinary, or with the staff who was in that veterinary ward headed by Prof. Majdacoma. So Chapter 12 has been correctly negotiated, here are the rules that apply in Europe and I think these rules are both good and advanced and that our veterinary work will continue on the way that Mr Winterhalter taught you and my wife to rest his soul, so at the Faculty of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44652	The answer to the replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44653	Yes, of course there is a problem and of course there are problems and they're being talked about and they're going to talk, but we need to see where the causes of these problems are. The country's war was the scariest. The stock was destroyed, everything was destroyed, and it should also mention veterinarians who really gave a huge pain by getting under the fire of a corpse and I must say that we didn't feel any epidemics on the ground as well. There's been a triquinosis related to the border, but it's been eradicated. There are new rules and privatisations, everything, I know what you're talking about. But in some ways they all reorganized. Unfortunately they did, unfortunately there's not as much work as the job has been and there's the biggest problem. But I'm sure the stock fund will be restored, the stock fund has to be restored and the profession will be restored to its place in society, maybe even some new veterinary station that will be able to comply with all the rules and regulations and that's the problem. There's a lot of them, of course, that there's a lot of them. I wanted simply a colleague about us becoming a member in two days, there's a lot behind us, there's a lot of things in the Parliament that are said in some way and what's good and what's affirmative. Well, I think that's it, and for these things, we'll hear from each other again a few more times.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44654	On behalf of SDP representative Mario Moharic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44655	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected co-workers of the minister. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The law adopts 34 EU regulations regulating the area of identification and registration of animals, animal transport, animal health control, animal welfare, and the conditions and control of the production of foodstuffs of animal origin and food for animals. It is important to note that the adoption of this law and the adoption of those regulations will cease to apply the rules adopted during the EU accession process, which are in line with those regulations. The Veterinary Law adopted in 2007 gave the basis for harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation in chapter 12-Veterinisation of the safe side and phytosanitary policy, which, by the scope of the legislation, was the most demanding chapter. In other parts of the introduction to the 2007 law, this law has no major and significant changes. I'd like to point out that I'd also like to commend the part that regulates the organisation of the veterinary inspection. According to this law, the veterinary inspection is carried out by national veterinary inspectors and senior national veterinary inspectors. According to the 2007 law, except for the national veterinary inspector, there were also official veterinarians who almost entirely carried out the same tasks by not having had the same possibility of inspection or regulation of certain administrative measures. The same professional qualifications were also required for the performance of the work, and both were doctors of veterinary medicine, and they had different coefficients of pay. I would especially like to commend the paper in this law regarding the establishment and control of the quality management system. The law provides the basis for the establishment of a quality management system of organisations in the system of implementing veterinary activities, namely veterinary stations, veterinary clinics, clinics and hospitals based on the guidelines of good veterinary practice of the International Animal Health Office. The establishment of a quality management system in veterinary organisations is a significant step in the quality of the provision of veterinary services that health care doctors provide to animal users on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44656	On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44657	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to continue about where my colleague Gjurdzica Sumrak stopped, so I would say that Croatian veterinary and legislation for many years has worked in quality and there was no problem putting this experience into law and adapting it to the EU. Taking into account the structure and content of the Veterinary Act, we can say that this is a roof law. The provisions of national law and the legislation of the European Union are intertwined here in this Act. For these reasons, this Law, which was valid, which was adopted in 2007 and 2011, required compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the applicable European Union veterinary regulations. My colleagues have said a lot, and I would say that this is the finest law that has come from the Ministry of Agriculture so far and that today on the Committee on Agriculture without any objections, without any notice of the veterinary chamber, which means that the persons who worked in preparation in front of the government have done an excellent job in front of the Ministry. It would be unfair not to mention here that in chapter 12 that the Republic of Croatia has closed if it were a matter of food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy that was one of the most complex. And that essentially one-third of the European Union legislation is waste in the veterinary legislation. I would say here that the basis of this harmonisation was 34 European Commission regulations, 13 of the Council of the European Union Directive, and that this is essentially one very complex, very complex law which essentially explains the way in certain situations in detail. Yes, here this Law covers 76 concepts that speak what these terms are and which directly refer to this Veterinary Act. We also have to mention here that in Article 51(2) of the Old Law, where a concession was prescribed and which, in relation to the new Law, has been amended in respect of concessions and collection and heat processing activities and by-products of animal origin which are not for human consumption, can be assigned to a domestic, legal or physical person who meets the technical, professional and organisational conditions. This was before the condition of Croatian citizenship in this new law that part is excluded. There is also a good reason to talk here and talk about how to train in details that speak again about one continuity of Croatian veterinary. On how important this activity is, how complex a colleague as a veterinarian has said it better, and I fully agree. Here it was also said in this Act that the veterinary activity covering animal health protection measures, health protection against infectious and artificial diseases, were then talked about facilities for the trade of purchased animals, labelling and registration of animals, here too, which was not changed in one good way we adapted the way, marking and registration of animals with a unique and unique register of domestic animals, with a large database of breeders, farm databases. The unique register of bovine animals, the unique register of sheep and goats, the unique register of pigs, the central register of copies, the institutions that are and which have the power to carry out the labelling are immediately explained here. This is also about reproduction, reproduction control as well as disinfection, disinsectation and deratiation. Most of the time, this is a complete, complete law that explains in the smallest detail the procedures, the ways from administrative supervision to inspection and the means used for the purpose of implementing this law. This is the year 2013 provided by 258 million 640 thousand kuna. It is also intended for 2014/2015. These funds also carry out certain measures, certain protections. Then further, here, you talk about the protection of animal health, transport, residence, that means the remains of pharmacological drugs that are kept in the tissue, the way they are used, because all the pharmacological remains are harmful to human health. The supervision of the work of veterinary activities, fees, fees, veterinary costs, the central veterinary system of this complete law shall be managed by the Ministry of Agriculture and normally by the veterinary service, and the inspection shall be carried out by veterinary inspectors and border and veterinary inspectors. In addition to all of this, the central veterinary information system is regulated under this Act. We can say that, with this Law, we have adapted the legislation of the Republic of Croatia to the legislation of the European Union. And from one. 7. this Law is a valid Law in Veterinary. One more congratulations to the Minister with his associates on this excellent law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44658	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44659	Final proposal of the Veterinary Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 424. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find it unanimous with 120 votes to pass the P.Z.E. law. the number 424 in the text proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44660	And we will discuss: - Final proposal of the Sustainable Waste Management Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 427; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session and the introduction of the Law proposal will be explained by the Minister of Environment and Nature, Mr Michael Zmajlović. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44661	Dear Madam Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. After the Act on the Protection of Nature and the Environmental Protection Act, the third proposal of the Law on State Waste Management came. This law transposes the provisions of a number of European Union directives in the field of waste management and several decisions and regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. Therefore, the adoption of this law is proposed by an urgent procedure. The law on sustainable waste management is one of the most important laws in environmental and nature protection and I can rightly say that it is a law that will completely change our habits and the image of Croatia. Preparers for separate collection of waste on the doorstep today are rarely seen in the Republic of Croatia, and will soon become a standard in all our cities and municipalities. This law could also cause violent reactions from many mayors and mayors, as implementation requires their full engagement, not just declarative support. This law fundamentally changes our communal habits, reduces the amount of waste that is delayed on landfills, introduces isolated collection of useful waste in households, separate collection of problematic and dangerous waste, and the construction of a network of recycling yards becomes a priority for each local government. This will no longer and must not be just part of the programme of local associations of greens, but a standard available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia without which no one can win the elections anymore. And that's true, it'll cost, but every standard costs. But have we ever wondered how much it costs us to put all the waste in one bucket and bury it in the ground? Such practice is the simplest and at first sight it may look the cheapest. However, the consequences of such treatment are numerous and expensive waste disposal projects, and such treatment creates indirect costs, primarily by increasing the risk of environmental pollution. In the Republic of Croatia, we have about 180 official unsanitary dumps and several thousand wild dumps for which the Ministry has spent more than 500 million kunas since 2005. 92% of municipal waste in Croatia is now being delayed to an unscheduled and uncoordinated dump, often only fenced meadows, and at best covers the country. 37% is the European average, and leaders like Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Sweden only delay 1%. The proposed Law on State Waste Management therefore has, for the main purpose of establishing a complete waste management system that is enforceable and efficient, allowing transparent waste, raw materials and money to clearly prescribe the responsibilities of the community, individuals and legal persons, to make it possible for the benefits of sustainable waste management to become general. And the key difference from the current law is the precise definition of obligations and responsibilities and clearly elaborated mechanisms of control of the implementation of legal obligations. I'd like to share the key news of this bill into five groups. The first is that the new law lays down the order of the waste management championship, which becomes a policy of implementing the waste management system at all levels, enters the law and sublaws, and all waste management procedures are treated according to the next order of the championship, which is to prevent waste generation as a priority, prepare for re-use, recycling and other recovery procedures such as energy recovery, and at the very end of the day it is least desirable to take care of disposal or incineration. The second is the management of specific categories of waste that will be possible through two systems, it is through the system of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund or a company registered for the specified activity through the so-called ‘T’. organization. Sub-legislative acts for specific categories will prescribe the application of a model of management through a fund or through an organisation, and the law allows the establishment of a company through which product manufacturers who at some point become waste can meet obligations related to its disposal. The improvement in the current model of management of specific categories therefore for the deposit system or the system of return fees currently operates for waste PET, aluminium and glass packaging. The system implements the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, and this law allows the establishment of a deposit system for other types of waste through a fund or through an organisation. For the model of the deposit system, the law provides for a series of measures that will correct the observed shortcomings and remove the possibility of manipulation or abuse of systems of which I particularly point out a significantly improved and expanded single information system of waste management that will allow the monitoring of waste flow, from placing the product on the market until the last stage of recovery or disposal of waste remaining after the use of the product. In this way, complete information and reporting on quantities, locations and types of waste will be allowed in real time. This will allow better planning of the activities needed to achieve the objectives, reducing the emergence, reuse or energy recovery of waste and the full establishment of the system of records will eliminate the possibility of abuse of the system, such as manipulation of quantities reported in relation to quantities in market circulation. The third newspaper is a separate collection of waste at the site of origin, so-called primary selection, and this becomes an obligation and responsibility for local communities and individuals. Therefore, national municipal waste management targets are reduced to the level of local community, units of local self-government which introduce the obligation to establish separate collection of specific categories of waste and the obligation to account for the collection of collected waste relatively to the amount of dedicated waste by the mass of dedicated waste or the volume of the container. The local self-government unit and the municipal company involved in the collection of waste will be stimulated to reduce the amount of unclassified waste and through disposal fees above the prescribed quotas, and except for the state and local self-government units are responsible for the education of citizens in waste management. The collection and handling of bulky waste is also a newspaper where the bulky waste is deposited on public surfaces, except therefore the ugly scene so far and the danger of the fact that in these piles often and dangerous waste such as a battery or construction waste is created and the wrong picture is that enough waste is thrown out on the street, and someone will take care of it. This law prescribes the possibility of free handover of bulk waste in recycling courtyards whose number will increase significantly by allowing citizens to have one recycling yard in their vicinity, i.e. the neighborhood. The obligations of the local self-government unit are also prescribed to allow the transport of bulky waste at the call of citizens. Disposal of the public surface will be possible only in special cases for the intended containers. So, no more waste disposal, piles on the sidewalks. The fifth newspaper is the establishment of a market and the promotion of economic activity. Therefore, it wants to encourage the development of a waste management market that has great economic potential everywhere in the world. The law emphasizes the economic character and potential of waste management unlike the one previously viewed as waste management only as a communal activity. Incentives shall be carried out through a series of measures such as retaining existing control dynamics and raising control standards, allowing the issue of waste management permits under simplified procedure, and with the prescribed five-year licence controls valid until recall. For the first time, the Institute of Product By-products and the elimination of waste status as a strong incentive to the domestic economy and entrepreneurship for the development of recycling industry. In fact, some categories produced as a by-product of the technological process as such were solely termologically considered waste, and in reality they are valuable raw materials. From now on, raw materials can also be treated as a waste disposal institute, allowing waste after being used, or recycled and eligible for product conditions and becoming a product, rather than more waste. In this context, it is also important to mention the entire information system that will allow the removal of waste status, i.e. the transition to raw material status. The new law provides for better control of money flows by means of a provision that the sale of waste for its own purposes by natural persons is carried out through a jury account with a personal ID card and the introduction of video surveillance in buying places so that individuals who are no longer in a privileged position with respect to companies that respect all the regulations provided for and have invested serious resources in the activity. Finally, I would like to point out once again that, through consistent application of the obligations under this law, by taking responsibility at local levels, and not only at state and thanks to the clear mechanisms of control from the foundations, it will change our communal habits and allow for the real establishment of a sustainable waste management system in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44662	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44663	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I know that you have good intentions and that this is a problem that you certainly understand especially in the part where you mentioned local self-government and the mayor and the captain's reactions, and certainly there will be. And just for reasons we know you're at home, so to speak, it's not clear to me why this law is practically passed so quickly, why he didn't go through a certain public debate, why not the units of local self-government that this would apply to the most had the opportunity to give his court. Even he is brought in at a time when neither the Association of municipalities nor the Association of Cities is working well, of course, because local elections were held immediately before that. What's especially in the eye is one of your sentences that you said would certainly cost, so we ask ourselves the question of who it's going to cost and how much it's going to cost. I'm sure it'll cost the citizens. Surely the issue of waste management must be resolved, but there are a lot of unsaid things that should be explained a little bit further. Maybe I haven't been able to read it myself since it was urgent, sort of hasty, so I just caught some in some things, say, indifference. Article 31 states that the owner of units of local self-government can make a decision, meaning that a municipal enterprise or another company whose founder is a company can manage waste. What about co-owners? What with the units of local self-government that they own, means several units of local self-government have utility companies, companies. So we would have to ensure that those who are co-owners can do so, so there are more of these things that are mentioned in the same way as the Commissioner in Article 46 for companies that are over 50 employees. Who's gonna pay the commissioner? The employer. Well, he's paying him, so he's not gonna be able to make a difference. Here's just a few examples. I think we should have had a public debate and it could still be done because we're not burning water.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44664	Replication response, Minister Zmailovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44665	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, here's my thanks for this debate, or the replica. But I would like to inform you, therefore, that the public debate and this broad public debate has been held, a series of consultations with associations, therefore relevant associations and cities and municipalities and counties. Some associations have also made numerous comments and suggestions concerning this bill. And when we talk about the association of cities, most of these remarks that the association has pointed to are both accepted and included in this proposal itself. When you're talking about the waste commissioner, just one clarification. Therefore, it is not about the necessity and need, the obligation of additional employment, but it is about the need for the appointment of a person who will be responsible and educated for the management of waste related to that particular company over 50 employees. So, it may be from the ranks of existing employees, but this is what we wanted to give an additional emphasis on the importance of waste management within, therefore, business processes, companies operating on the market. Here, I hope this clarification is enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44666	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. First in a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Col. Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44667	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, as the minister said in his introduction, the Sustainable Waste Management Act is one of the three roof laws defining environmental and nature protection and one of those three roof laws that we have discussed over the past 10 days. Its adoption is certainly conditioned by the fact that the Republic of Croatia will become a member of the EU within four days. This is why it is such a haste in its adoption, which for us representatives at the HDZ club is unacceptable that such an important, roof law relating to waste management in the Republic of Croatia is being passed in a way that practically the law itself has arrived at the benches of parliamentary representatives during the morning, that the parent board has discussed it during the day, and that here we are now at 18 hours discussing this law the way we are discussing it. The more this law in its implementation, the more it will require, the enormous material financial resources that are expected or calculated by the end of 2025, to seek around 3.5 billion euros in funding, and otherwise the whole package of implementation of all those commitments that we have made in Chapter 27. - The environment will cost about 10 billion euros financially. I said 3 billion euros in waste management, 4.5 billion euros in water protection, and another 2 billion in air protection, improving air quality, reducing industrial pollution, safe chemical management, etc. So when we pass a law like this that is also financially demanding then the least we could expect the Government to discuss this law, or suggest that representatives discuss it in two readings and that there will be more time for it to be passed. Moreover, according to the Croatian legislation's 2012 acquis, which was adopted by the EU, this law was envisaged, its adoption, in the second quarter of 2012. In this respect, and in April last year, a public debate was held with the public interested in the first draft bill, but after that we care for incomprehensible reasons. I don't understand that it's been 14 months since now and he hasn't come to the Parliament to say today. On the other hand, in a new plan proposed by the government to the Parliament as a plan for harmonising our legislation, the first quarter of this year was envisaged, so it is not respected either. So here are three, four days before Croatia's entry into full membership we are in a certain way valued to this law, in order to adopt this law in an emergency procedure. Also, this law implies by the end of the year the adoption of a waste management plan that will prescribe everything the government will and what other authorities in the Republic of Croatia will do to implement all this which this law will adopt when it is adopted. What I would like to say in the introduction is that the Republic of Croatia has committed itself, and we are now trying to implement this law, to establish a full system of waste management through one side of the construction of a waste management centre by the end of 2014, and to resuscitate all existing dumps that the minister was talking about earlier. In parallel with this, one of the commitments is to gradually reduce by the end of 2020 the share of biodegradable waste that is delayed at landfills in order to achieve the required level up to a maximum of 35% of the mass share of biodegradable municipal waste compared to base 1997. By delaying this law, it seems to me that we are very much questioning the fulfillment of these obligations. According to the waste balance in the Republic of Croatia without resolving the waste management system in the City of Zagreb, where the largest waste is clearly created Croatia will not be able to fulfil that obligation in which, by the end of 2020, it could reduce that share of biodegradable waste and we have made certain commitments through this process of Croatia's accession to full membership that, if we do not carry out, we will be obliged to pay for the foams. According to some estimates, the estimates that have been made, if we do not, for example, carry out that obligation, then Croatia could pay a daily penalty of between 25 and 35 000 euros, which is indeed a huge amount that the Republic of Croatia will have to pay if it does not establish a waste management system as provided for in Chapter 27. - Environment. I therefore believe that we lost 14 months needlessly to the adoption of this law and that a solid basis for the adoption of this law was that draft proposal that was made in April last year. Furthermore, what the minister also said in his opening section, this law established two possibilities, two models of management of specific categories of waste. One as a boredom through the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, which was clearly not until the end of absolutely and elaborated, created certain problems for which individual tails are being dragged today but was a system that could work better with certain work. This law establishes another model that will take place through an organisation designed as a body to which product manufacturers will transfer their obligations to meet the legal objectives of a particular type of waste to be verified. The question can be asked whether it can be doubtful who guarantees safety in meeting the objectives we have signed in the process of negotiations on the collection of specific categories of waste, the more the process of collecting these categories of waste is very, very high somewhere and over 85% of total waste, and the question is who will be responsible if this waste is not collected in such high percentages, whether it will be responsible for the State, whether it will be responsible for the Environment Protection Fund, whether it will be responsible for the organisation, whether it will be the producer of the product belonging to the specific category of waste. Namely, who will financially guarantee that this model, which is foreseen by this law, will be fully implemented and that there will indeed be no problem on this side. In addition, I mentioned this on the parent committee, it is said that this law prescribes obligations for units of local self-government obligations for cities and municipalities to establish and establish a separate collection of waste paper, metals, glass, plastics, textiles and bulky municipal waste within a year. This requires respected ladies and gentlemen of great financial commitment. It is true that there are cities and municipalities in Croatia that have already gone far in this regard, they have established such a system and I congratulate them, but there are a very large number of units of local self-government that have not moved far away whose budgets and revenues of utility companies are small, they are not large, how and how we will ensure the financial side of implementation of this obligation that this law establishes, I am not sure. The minister may say something later to explain it to us, but I do not see that part of the local self-government unit, and there are 555 that will have to be included in this separate collection of waste as well as how it will finance it. In addition, the obligation to calculate the collection of municipal waste is introduced in proportion to the quantity of dedicated waste, where the relevant is considered to be the mass of dedicated waste or the volume of the container for its acceptance. The question can also be asked how to control and how to implement this obligation especially in those cities where there are more buildings with more than 50, 60 apartments and how to ensure how to pay, how to carry out this charge and how to ensure that this obligation is implemented. Furthermore, we are also on the board, and we at the HDZ Club question the provisions of Article 117, which practically delegates the Treaty on concessions and concessions to carry out the activities of the collection of a specific category of waste, becoming a contract for the provision of the same waste collection service or a concession contract to carry out the activity of the specific category of waste becomes an authorisation for that same service. I don't know if it's possible because there's this real relationship between the concessionor and the concessionaires, or if it's possible by law to enter into that contract, to solve this together in the way that the proposer himself predicted. Furthermore, I also asked a question on the parent board relating to the waste management laboratory, which is an integral part of the application for the authorisation of waste management. Article 90 is generally referred to as an authorised engineer who is a member of an independent professional organisation or chamber. In the Republic of Croatia, I don't think I'm sure I'm sure, but I'm 10-a-half professional organizations of chambers of chamber technology engineers, transport and transport, geodesy, machine, electrician, Chamber of Dental Medicine, etc., etc. not to list all these chambers, the question of whether we should have prescribed this article which chambers are concerned, to which the authorisation of an engineer is covered by this article, which enables the development of waste management laboratories, and without which no authorisation for waste management can be obtained. This approach seems to me that it is not fully defined, I think it is not good, and I think that in that part, the government should have explained it better as well. Furthermore, when we talk about waste management, when we introduce the possibility and obligation to units of local self-government in the construction of recycled courtyards, when we introduce the possibility of this law that waste management is carried out and in the buildings that are even in the settlements, when the possibility is introduced to individual buildings, and which has already been resolved by the Regulation on simple buildings carried out by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Arrangements, the question is whether the party is in the process when the waste management permit is really only the owner or the real property owner on which the waste management unit and the local self-government units are carried out or which, in our club HDZ, the party is in the process when talking about waste and waste management must be a neighbour. If a neighbor is interested in performing certain activities, activities on a neighbouring parcel, then it is certain in this procedure when the activity of waste management is carried out on the neighbouring parcel and that we provide that the neighbour of the property on which certain waste management activity is carried out cannot participate, but only the owner of the real rights and property and local self-government units are not our own interests, because it can significantly distort the value of the property of the neighbouring property from the one in which the waste management activity is carried out. It therefore seems to me that this should also allow a neighbor on a particle on which the property is built to carry out a certain waste management activity to be a party in the process when such authorisation is issued. So there are still a number of remarks on the specific articles that we hold that in an emergency procedure in such a short time cannot be properly answered. This Law required at least two readings. This law requires a longer, better-quality debate. This is how we were practically brought before the final act. On our only parent committee, they said that parliamentary representatives are this way, given that this Law is one of the assumptions that we must fulfil in the process of Croatia's accession to full membership in the European Union. From this, we cannot understand that this is how the Government comes before the Parliament with a final text of the Law that requires a better debate, which would require a series of amendments, which in such a short time we are not even able to prepare. But this isn't an isolated case. Especially when we talk about protecting the environment and nature. We have also adopted the Environmental Protection Act practically in one reading which is not good and which is something that we cannot be satisfied with because, I say three roof laws that define environmental protection and nature have been passed in just a few days, which seems inappropriate to me. So here's what would be best if this law went to regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44668	Thank you. Replica has a colleague named Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44669	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here it is. I just wanted to replicate my colleague Bacic. So this Law is not a law that was in a public debate just over 14 months ago. So it's a whole new document, which suggests ultimately the name of this law. Because this law is no longer a waste management law but a law on sustainable waste management. I'd also like to remind you that all these deadlines were negotiated by you. And in the eight years of your term, you haven't realised any of the obligations in this part except for the implementation of a corrupt model of management of specific categories of waste. And in this way, you created the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, which one praise should have been a financing instrument for environmental protection policy and turned it into a source of unscrupulous wealth, a lobby linked to highly positioned HDZs, some of whom may be sitting in this House today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44670	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44671	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Holly, I wanted to say first and then I'll look back on this second part that the government, this government, in April last year, had already made the bill. Whether he was better or worse than this law, I'm not getting into it. I said what I thought about this law, that bill of yours didn't come to the Parliament so I could talk about it. It's about that. So I did not say that this Law was in this text 14 months ago but that the Government had already drawn up a proposal for this Law. Another thing, about what the former HDZ government did. Well, the former HDZ government has completed negotiations in this, and even in this chapter, which has established everything that this government needs to do, and as it does, you're probably also witnessing how it works when we're here after a year and a half, we haven't passed this basic law, which, by the way, has already been prepared in September 2011. Which was prepared in September 2011. If he was the best, I don't know if he'd be as good as he was, but he was prepared. Therefore, when you became a minister, you had finished the text of the Law, whether you agreed or did not, that is your business, but you inherited the negotiations in that chapter, you inherited almost all the laws that should have been adopted. And as for the model set up through the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Fund, you treat this Fund and otherwise treat the institutions that regulate the issue of environmental protection in a very interesting way. You wouldn't go into a model to fix something but you think it's bad and wrong and you create new models like the Park Agency instead of fixing the existing system if there's a deviation to change them, you would immediately change it with a new model and who guarantees you that this model would be better. And the same with this and this model. I'm not saying it's a model [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the best fund [[Thank you very much.]] But about whether he can fix himself or this other model that he's... [[Intruder: Collateral time.]] We intend to do even more damage to it, we will see in its implementation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44672	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44673	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bacic, you said this could cause problems in fulfilling the obligations of local self-government units. I don't think we should be afraid of that, and as far as that part is concerned, we should simply force local self-government units to do that job because they could have done it in all these past years that we talked about a little while ago. And where I'm going to say that it's allowed for local self-government units to do a lot of waste management. That's what I'm saying from my own experience, I'm speaking from an example of the town of the Cross. So a city that doesn't have great financial power and strength and has managed to solve waste management and to resuscitate the dump and cost it twice as much as they predicted. And do waste separation and solve a number of other things, a series of problems, introduce a model of billing by volume rather than squares of apartment etc.. I think there's a bigger problem in this part, which is only going on one practical first and second reading at a time. The problem is that citizens don't know how much it's going to cost, what's waiting for them. That's a much bigger problem. And that's why, with all due respect to what Mr. Minister said earlier, I didn't speak in my head, so I'm on the line with people who do this job, who are the directors of these companies. I've got here and... So there was no quality public debate where citizens could be familiar with what is waiting for them, where units of local self-government could still be a little better acquainted with what is waiting for them and where finally the citizens would know what is waiting for them and that is the fact. [[You don't understand the speaker.]] We can now say that for 10 days we have made it possible for people to plead, but we can also say that today we, as representatives of the Parliament, had a few hours to get acquainted with this law and consult. That's not enough time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44674	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44675	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Hrg, so I would not measure the success of a single unit of local self-government when it comes to the obligation prescribed by this law. Surely that there are cities that have already gone far in the section relating to selective waste collection, there they are, but I would be interested in how many units of local self-government, those 555 that will have to implement in one way or another these provisions that are legally prescribed, which are able to do so in a year. So you know exactly what a single unit of local self-government is, how much money they have, how they finance their utility companies and what problems they have in funding. I'm just saying whether we're aware that a number of local self-government units will be difficult to finance whatever this law provides, but I don't know if we've made one detailed analysis that would allow this law to really be implemented. And that was my question, so my question was whether cities and municipalities, what is prescribed by this law, would be able to realise within that time limit, and that deadline was very short because it was one year from the date of the law's entry into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44676	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44677	Thank you. Dear fellow, I would also play on your concern about the possibility of units of local self-government to finance the obligations that will follow them by this law, but I would say that there is no other, a commitment that is not only made up in Croatia but is an obligation for the whole of Europe to have one who pollutes wages. Thus, citizens of these units of local self-government must clearly pay for it. After all, citizens pay for everything, and our salaries and yours and mine, so eventually they have to pay for that waste. But this raises one broader question, whether many of these units of local self-government that really don't have enough resources for their own funding, whether more of these units have to be joined together, to make it easier for them to finance not only their own waste management needs but also others. So whether they can be self-sufficient, whether that motive for local self-government is so justified that it justifies the funding and these needs that they have from someone else. Also, as far as your concerns are concerned about the implementation of this principle, which requires that you pay by the amount of waste. I think that there are systems in Europe that are being stalked and that works quite well. So what we need is not to invent hot water, just... these systems, for example. that only waste is delayed in certain bags to be paid. This system, for example, It exists in Switzerland. There is a clear danger that someone is delaying waste to the wild, but we still need to establish a system that does not work unfortunately in the City of Zagreb where... we also see in its surroundings numerous landfills, which is the responsibility of local authorities. They must take their responsibility seriously and they must carry out their obligations, the others are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44678	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44679	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Pandek, we can agree now in one piece, and that may be the message of this law, that the implementation of this law will collect the transport of municipal waste, or garbage, and that after this law has been passed, Croatian citizens will also receive this municipal service. After the increase in the price of electricity, following the increase in the price of water, after the increase in the price of gas, after the increase of VAT, after everything that this government has raised, has accumulated in the Republic of Croatia, we will now collect and transport municipal waste through the implementation of this law and that is the message of this law. That's why I said, if you say that the principle is a pay polluter and in this case needs to be implemented then you should clearly tell the citizens that now they're paying 10 kunas by yesterday, now maybe 15 kuna, and that's the message of this law. And that's why I said that if the local self-government units are ready to make that difference that's going to cost them, in the cost that they're going to finance themselves after this law, or what you said, they're going to transfer it to the citizens. I think that's what we should tell the citizens, so they'll get this communal service.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44680	Those of us who've been doing this for a long time know that she's been cheap for us. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44681	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Now, you've broken all the concepts I've prepared for this discussion, so I'm going to go to each other during. We always like to argue here about who's guilty of something more, especially when something's wrong, whether it's whoever negotiated something or maybe it's more the one who's here for almost a year and a half isn't what didn't fit. I'd say that what was there was, but it's stupid and silly to hide what someone did without me trying to fix it for a year and a half. This is how we quickly change the law around which, as we've heard, there's a lot of corrupt activities involved. The law itself may not have been so bad, but they were bad rules. But what's the minister or what this government has done since it came to power has made any of these laws change, and they could because it was a tool in their hands, to make things right, and not to benefit from certain interest groups. I just thought of the Minister of One Question, so I'm going to ask you a question right now. I would ask you to answer me if it's true that the Ministry of Environmental Protection has committed a break-in and that they've disappeared, all the concession solutions, and that's exactly what the DORH's been investigating. Here's just the public doing some data. In 2011, a total of 35111,27 tonnes of waste vehicles were processed from two concessionaries, Caesar d.o.o. in participation of 99.59% and disposal of raw materials d.o.o. from Zadar in the participation of 0.41%. In 2011, given that we do not have the data for 2012, but it will be very interesting and it will be very interesting to analyze this data a little bit of revenue from the compensation for the management of waste vehicles around 48 million kuna, and it has paid 65 million kuna, which means that it has paid more than it has income from nearly 17 million kuna, and this has been paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the number of waste vehicles produced in the Republic of Croatia cannot be determined with certainty, because the Ministry of Internal Affairs does not register vehicle processing certificates and does not record statements on the place of storage of the vehicle for registration, so those statements where vehicles that were not registered this year should be registered, so as to take the number of vehicles not extended, and imagine just how many Croatian citizens could not extend the registration because they may not have been paid. But it obviously did not interest anyone, so the result was that a total of 45853 vehicles were taken care of in 2011, of which only 9909 vehicles were taken care of on the basis of the vehicle’s checkout and booklets, and even nearly 36,000 vehicles on the basis of the minutes of the communal editor. So, at a time when more and more citizens of the Republic of Croatia are digging through garbage cans to find a bottle here and there, we have to believe that nearly 36,000 vehicles were found somewhere on meadows in Croatia, and such vehicles had to be bought in just one company. During all these years of application of the Regulation, the growth of the fees paid for the management of waste vehicles is recorded, and the biggest reason is that the amount of the fees paid for waste management has increased during that period. It's a real school example here's how to manage money to suit individuals and it's not even accounting for anyone, but at the same time we don't need to change the rules, we don't need to cut fees for it, we don't have time, we need to let it all go through and then accuse someone who once made some kind of decision and did some things. I'm going to try to build on this law now. First of all, it is a pure blackmail not only of representatives here in the Croatian Parliament, but of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to pass this law today because you have blackmailed us all with this P.Z.E. Unless the law is passed that we will not fulfil the obligations we have made, which is certainly a splash to all those who have negotiated for years and made some arrangements. 14 months have passed since the draft of one law was under discussion, there has been no debate, there has been another law. I would ask you to just answer what this is about and why we deserve it here for two days, three days before we enter the EU, we pass this law by an emergency procedure, and we ourselves are aware of what is happening to us and how much state money we pay for our intransparency and for our convenience. If after a year and a half of the law was good or better than the draft bill that was maybe we could still say that somehow and it was okay, it was done well, so now here's the law has no objections or criticism, so we're going to adopt it as such. However, the law is not good, it is bad, and what is worst of all it will not be practical and it will come back to us with all the rest of this that we have so far. We are passing a law of urgency, and as a minister, you have up to 12 months of time to agree on all the regulations that apply to this law as much as the Government has in order to pass for this law all the necessary regulations. And it's not good, it's not a good message to us parliamentary deputies, it's not a good message to the citizens, and it's not a good message from one ministry that should take care of the environment and the waste. As far as local self-government units are concerned, there will be a lot of problems. I will try to try you here on just one example from your own city to prove that you absolutely did not do any analysis of the units of local self-government, and you have all the data in both the agency and the fund and the ministry, in order to give quality time not a year, but an optimal deadline in which units of local self-government will be able to adapt, in which they will be able to make certain changes, in which they will be able to satisfy the letter of this law in the best way, without anyone being damaged. But the analysis wasn't done. So, if one municipal company owns a dump under this new law can't be involved in the collection. An example of my utility company. In the past three years, the municipal company has invested about 30 million kunas in the recovery of the dump and is the only one that has thus resolved the closure of the system. In the first phase, land was purchased, and only Croatian forests bought land worth 1.5 million kuna. For all of this, the municipal company is in debt for 15 million kuna. When negotiating the second phase of the construction of the recycling yard, loading stations and composting fields, their greatest advantage was the property-legislative situation just solved, and it was decided to enter the Kastijun test as such. Since according to this law, the municipal company can no longer deal with the collection because the owners of the dump and since they invested their own funds, this same company that employs around 150 people is free to close because they won't have the money to repay the credit they've taken so far. If, however, the property they have transferred to the local self-government unit must pay about 8 million kuna of VAT. After the selection of waste, it is a municipal enterprise first in Istria, now it is in the making of a tender for the expansion of the system to other municipalities with co-financing by the fund and remains questionable whether to start any projects that should be completed by 28 February 2014 when the trial work of the Kastijun County Waste Management Centre begins. This is just one example of a utility company, and if you did an analysis, you would know that such utility companies in the Republic of Croatia have a very, very large one. As regards this law, Article 112 of waste trade in paragraph 8, and you said, you mentioned that the rate at the end of all the waste-related counter-conclusive waste, and that, among other things, the purchasers of waste will have to put in place all video cameras to see who is bringing this waste, then in paragraph 8, if the sale of waste makes monthly income greater than half the minimum wage in the Republic for the past year, according to official data from the state administration responsible for statistics, it is also considered to be carrying out the activity of the waste trade. We still have an income regulation in place where the payment of the final money in Article 7 precisely states that the fees for the purchase of secondary raw materials from waste and waste, provided that the collection of secondary raw materials and waste is not an independent activity of the taxpayer and provided that the taxpayer from one payer obtains up to a maximum of 1600 kuna per month, and this half of the average income of 1407 kuna, so I ask you to coordinate it with each other so that the purchaser of secondary raw materials would not be in a situation where inspection services are now self-employed to implement their decision and interpret the laws as they do that day, and that is dependent on which the purchaser comes because it is very important as the company is called. Because in the end, we come back to the legal uncertainty that has become simply terrifying to every legal entity in the Republic of Croatia, and in parallel, we are looking for big investors who will come to invest in our country. Article 145 if, during inspection, it is established that there are no infringements of this law and regulations adopted pursuant to this law which are authorised to inspection the protection of the environment and the justified reason for the further conduct of the procedure and the applicant of the application for evidence is further conducted at the request of the applicant. So, it turns out this way, I report to my competitor, he's going to have environmental protection inspection, he's doing surveillance, he's establishing a state of fact, but it doesn't mean anything, because if I report that surveillance and I want to continue to insist on that surveillance, that surveillance will be done as long as I have the money to pay the inspection to be in that company or as long as I'm willing to play with that competitor. And the condition to get permission from the Special Waste Management Fund in the first place is that the company, i.e. the company required by the Fund's licence, is not subject to inspection supervision. Now try to explain this to me, how normal it is, how smart it is and how much it can work in a legal system and in a democratic state that we say we live in. The law is definitely bad, a lot of, a lot of indetermination and what worries most is that licenses under this law will be able to get those companies that have the most employees who have the most money because it's decaded here, that have the most trucks, and I think you're aware yourself that you know what you're doing and who you're guessing at. Croatian Labourists cannot accept this law for many reasons, but I think it is one of the greatest precisely because it is through P.Z.E. adopts one such law concerning but every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, because in the end, we are all waste producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44682	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate of ten-minute MPs because we've exhausted a list of registered clubs. It's the honorary representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44683	Thank you, Your Honor. Therefore, the main promise from Plan 21 was the introduction of order and transparency in public money management systems. This is in this particular case related to this law of the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund. We know what the current situation is with the fund and the question is whether this law will make positive steps in terms of introducing order and transparency in managing public money. It is unserious and irresponsible law that weighs several billion not kunas but to bring the euro in the way we are about to pass it. In the same day only three days before Croatia's entry into the EU, literally at the last minute, we put the Final Proposal of the Sustainable Management Act on the agenda, ad hoc called a session of the parent committee, we discussed the law on the parent board, and now we are discussing it on our noses in plenary. Tomorrow you will not have to vote in the Parliament as we know and can because the Ministry of Environment and Nature has been combing for the past year while the house has been burning. And it burned for three basic reasons for permits, concessions and a corrupt system management of specific categories of waste. With this law of the above three problems we solve only one. The question arises as to why the ministry was waiting literally for the last moment for this extremely important law to release into public debate and then from the hills of the valley, the observations came through during the public debate, which is why the public debate seems to be completely pro-form and not as an extremely important instrument that not only stems from the roof environmental law but is also an obligation resulting from the Archduke Convention, which was ratified by the Croatian Assembly in 2007. This formal public debate following the sending of the draft law to Brussels, instead of preceding the sending of the draft law to Brussels, is then on its own on the nose of the parliamentary procedure and are almost irresistibly reminded of the way in which the ruling majority led by the HDZ in the past term literally at the last minute, the last day of the session, the last session, a few minutes before the parliament's disbandation, placed the final draft of the law on changes and additions to the Water Act and the cold voted it without public debate and without discussion on the parent committee. Although we were in the SDP club just over a year and a half ago, we were scolding over such rape proceedings now with almost the same colossium, the paved pathways of rape procedure because today we have to say openly that the government has brought this irresponsible and creamy procedure to the Parliament and all MPs and MPs in a very unpleasant situation literally blackmailed the Parliament because tomorrow we have to pass this law regardless of what the law was, and this shows the government's very bad attitude towards the Parliament as the highest body of representative authority in Croatia. And the sad fact is that the law is far from good. What did the ministry do for a year on this bill? It's hard to say because in a year it was justified to expect a far more high-quality proposal than the one we are today only if we were poor and were able to read very quickly. But perhaps the intensity of the law was not to be good, simple, and just and to allow equal game rules for everyone. Maybe that's why we're bringing it in this way from the hills from the ground and into the rapids so that this extremely important law, the law that is whether or not to be to introduce order into corruption, wetted the waste management sector, especially by the management of specific categories of waste, would not be focused on media and any other attention and would not be threatened by the interests of extremely powerful, and it would seem to be dangerous waste lobbys. Why is the ministry so soft, so unreformly related to these extremely large interests difficult to say. I hope it's just cowardice, not the flow of politics and these lobbies. Why isn't this bill good? This law is in a chronic delay and due to this delay, we will be paying for the foam next year due to non-compliance with EU provisions on the reduction of biowaste stocks by 25% compared to the 1997 reference year. I'm afraid we won't be better off meeting the next deadlines for 2015 and 2018. In addition, the law is complicated and unimplementable in the section concerning the management of specific categories of waste. Article 53(4) introduces a hybrid model of management of specific and specific categories of waste, and such a model is further complicated by Articles 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72. Who are related to the fund and to the 75th, 76th, 77th, 78th, 79th, 80th, 81nd, 82nd, which are related to organizations, but as far as I know, this hybrid model doesn't exist anywhere in the world. How hybrid? Hybrids in a way that, not even today after a year of careful thinking and thinking, the analysis of the model of evaluations and evaluations of ministers and the ministry did not collect the courage and decided that they wanted to keep the existing corruption topped-up model, which rests on the fund and corresponds to powerful interest lobbyes or concessionaries for specific categories of waste, especially packaging waste, or to go into reform by modeling most of the European countries that rest on so-called. recovery organisations and not necessarily through companies but through non-profit organisations such as Austria's ARA. As things stand now, the minister wants ah as predictablely as his view of so-called. improving the existing system of management of protected areas, retaining an existing model that rests on the infamous fund, but dares not say it out loud and clear because he would not want to get the label of the one who is prone to benefit so-called "the" The king's trash. That's why it's re-translated and re-announced analysis of evaluations and evaluations and the fact that it's predictable to relocate to the government and the government's regulation because the minister would not want to interfere by the principle of Pontius Pilate, which is precisely a terrifying amount of fear and escape from responsibility. That the minister does not intend to give the organisations too much chance is visible in Article 77 relating to the so-called so-called ‘. An agreement between the fund and the organisation, which is as if you're asking a greedy rich man to sign an agreement with a young rival who gives up the good part of his fortune. It is certain that the fund will work in a warm way, the fund will certainly be very objectively, fairly and transparently supervised and encouraged by organisations. What does all this mean? This means that we will continue to have a radical model of management of specific categories of waste which rests on a fund in which DORH and USOK teams regularly camp, that we will retain a model which is highly critical of the state audit that we will keep the caucus model in which the same institution collects money on the basis of extra budget fees and even though that money should be used by the users of selected core programme competitions to fund it as the owner, carrier and waste trader who should never be in its possession because it is not the role of the fund as a financial institution. Business and lords and king's waste will continue to flourish, for which we have had more opportunities to read in the media that they are interestingly related to HDZ, but after this law we can freely say that they are obviously interestingly tied and... individuals from the current furniture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sad and embarrassing. In addition, there is no particularly important instrument for the establishment of a waste management market model, which is a waste stock exchange. Explain why there's no stock exchange in the law. Well, that wouldn't be, that would be so complicated that we would need a special law on that. No matter what the obligation to trade in waste on the stock market introduces a system of supply and demand, market prices for commercially profitable waste types, control of those who are owners, traders and waste processors. It's complicated, so it's better not to deal with an instrument that's a fundamental prerequisite for introducing fair play in corruption, a soaked waste sector. The Ministry introduces, or retains, another foolish and harmful provision in this Law. This is Article 58, which regulates construction waste and the harmful item is item 2 which says that, I quote, "A person who postpones construction waste is obliged to pay compensation for the disposal of construction waste.". What's the harm? Because by introducing a free disposal of construction waste in the recycling yard in Jakushevec, the city of Zagreb has been very effective in just a year to reduce the amount of construction waste that has often been deposited in the environment and nature, and in these places it has encouraged the creation of illegal dumps. With a very simple process of sifting and grinding this waste, the operator has come into possession of a larger amount of raw material based on new building material and earns money on it. There are vague and foolish provisions concerning the so-called. The waste commissioner referred to in Article 46, and it is not clear what the Commissioner is actually serving. Because of everything previously said and in spite of the good provisions that domestic legislation is in line with the quality provisions of the EU Directive and despite good measures such as the compensation for the disposal of municipal waste, I will not be able to support this Law and I predict that due to its inequitableness in the Assembly, we will very soon discuss its amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44684	Thank you very much. Next respected representative, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44685	I thank the Honorable President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I signed up for the debate so I could ask one very specific question of life. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The proposal for a law provides that local self-government units in their area must provide public service for the collection of mixed municipal waste and biodegradable municipal waste. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, among other measures, units of local self-government are obliged to ensure the functioning of at least one recycling yard or waste storage site in their area. In that case, if a recycling yard is to be provided in each city district or every city station in the city, one or more recycling yards must be provided. All this must be ensured within one year of the entry into force of this Act under the threat of fines ranging from one hundred to three hundred thousand kuna. I must say, these are very ambitious provisions that will certainly provide for a high municipal standard in the perspective. However, that high standard of course has its own price. I'm saying this from the experience of the town of Čakovec which has now organized a recycling yard in one of its three city wheels and this recycling yard cost the unit of local self-government 3 million kuna. So, not to be too long, I'm going to ask a question, what is the obligation of the local self-government unit to do exactly the obligation of organised waste collection if local self-government is established in it? So, if local committees are established because of the fact that Article 35 is only about the corners and the neighborhoods and not about the local committees, are local committees even with urban districts and cotters? I'm asking that because in Međimurje, we have several really large municipalities that not only extend to the great territory, so in the great area, they have 12, within their own 12 local committees. So what are the specific obligations of the local self-government unit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44686	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Now it's your honorary representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44687	I thank you, Mr. President, ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. No matter what, I would say that this law still brings order to the problem of waste management in relation to the situation so far. I think it represents a significant improvement in the current system and respects most of the aspects of waste management. In particular, I would say that it will affect the situation with regard to waste management in the city of Zagreb. The current waste management situation in the city of Zagreb would be unsustainable but unsustainable for maybe 15 or 20 years, so it is still maintained in one negative sense. Unfortunately, the waste is still delayed in the town of Zagreb by the 19th century method, by burying it in a country which is mildly bad. In addition to depositing the valuable waste on Jakushevec, it poses a permanent danger to the city of Zagreb. And recently, media signs have been common on water pollution in the city of Zagreb because it is certain that pollution has also contributed to inadequate waste management in the city of Zagreb. The problem of waste management in the city of Zagreb has not been adequately addressed for many years. Okay, you have to admit that's a very sensitive question and this famous "not in my yard" syndrome certainly has an impact on the non-resolvement of this problem. Lastly, more serious waste management studies in the City of Zagreb, predicting a place where waste would be taken care of differently than taking care of Jakushevec now, there have been since 20 years ago and since then no more serious studies have been done to solve this problem in a better way. Clearly, the situation has changed dramatically over the past 20 years since the day these last studies were dated. Thus, under these studies, which are still recent and therefore there is no indication that others will be working, the problem of waste management in the City of Zagreb should focus on the area of Sesveto and Sesvetski Kraljec where the Centre for Waste Management is planned, although the situation has changed significantly over the past 20 years and the area in which the construction of the Waste Management Centre is now surrounded by residential settlements. The residential settlements came close to the area. Also the problem of solving waste mud from a well-known water purifier, there is no nearness in Zagreb, there is no indication that this problem should be solved. That's why I think it was necessary for a law like this that would impose an obligation on units of local, regional self-government to finally do something, to at least do something about it. Because I stress, especially for the example of the City of Zagreb, this further situation of maintaining such a situation is simply unsustainable, especially for a period of several years. Obviously, it has serious influences, not only on the immediate environment of the dump in Jakushevec, but also unfortunately on this problem of water pollution in the City of Zagreb. I believe, however, that by imposing clear obligations on local units, regional self-government will finally force them to take concrete steps in the problem of waste management. In doing so, there should be no fear that units of local self-government will face insurmountable problems, financial problems primarily in the implementation of this law. Some will find those who do not actually have enough capacity to be units of local self-government at all because those who do not have enough management to solve waste management problems in a way that would not only create an additional cost but also create an opportunity for them to reduce the current cost of waste disposal in the current inadequate, or bad way. Waste is not garbage, and those units of local self-government that will not treat waste according to this postulate will therefore pay extra, i.e. will pay the citizens of these local self-government units. Those units of local self-government that will have leadership that will realize that waste can be used, that by taking care of waste in a different way than clean disposal and burial can reduce that cost, they will profit. These citizens won't have an extra cost. Not to mention that well-planned waste management projects will be able to make use of EU funds. I therefore believe that the solution in this law will contribute even to the cost of municipal services and examples even exist in Croatia. So I believe that this law is ultimately creating preconditions for far better waste management than it has ever been before, it's in most local self-government units. Personally, some solutions I think should be more radical, perhaps a little bit different, but I think we can still talk about a significant improvement in the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44688	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And that's how we exhausted the list of people that were reported for debate at this point. Does the proposalant's representative want to take the final word? Yeah. Dear Minister of Environment and Nature Michael Zmajlovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44689	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So before you there is a bill that certainly cannot be assessed by non-reform law because if good and quality reading is done, there are a number of instruments and institutes that will ensure that the Sustainable Management Act is implemented in practice. And why did I say this law might cause violent reactions? They will, precisely because it affects what would be said in the srid, those who are in debt and who are the only ones who can and must be with us, with the state and the county to implement this law. No one from Zagreb or another European city can address the issue of municipal issues, the issue of waste management in a municipality or city. Of course, all stakeholders, social stakeholders must contribute to solving this problem, but in order to do so we must also have enforceable laws and regulations. And all those who have responsibility and obligations in this law must have both motivation and incentive. And what's one of the most important instruments in this law, the mechanisms, it's so-called. the amount of waste per capita in one unit of local self-government, as much as possible to delay that waste. All above that prescribed amount of waste will have to be paid a fee which will require political responsibility and political motivation of the unit leader of local self-government, which is why so far the Waste Act, which has already defined the obligation of the unit of local self-government to introduce primary selection. The obligation and provision in the law stand for more than five years, but there are rare examples in Croatia of municipalities and cities that have introduced it. Why? Because those provisions were imprecise, inconclusive. Today, in this law, there is also political motivation for the leaders of local self-government to do so in addition to precisely defining these obligations. On the one hand, they will pay the fee and, therefore, they will have the opportunity to make a political decision on whether to pay the fee or tax, or to build a foothold, arrange a road or to introduce additional containers for the collection of useful waste, to create a recycling yard, and for which they will also receive incentives from the Environmental Protection Fund which they are of course, these incentives have been available so far. But there is one strong motivation here, and that is the mechanism with which we expect all these activities to be initiated and implemented. Will this system cost you? So this law doesn't produce expenses, extra costs. What has been said about billions of euros that will cost allegedly the implementation of this law. It's actually about the costs produced by the commitments we've made through an access contract, not by this law, and this law is a platform and a way to meet those obligations. Therefore, this law will not generate additional costs except that this law will specifically highlight, and this is very important, this law stresses that public service or municipal service, the price must be economical, it must be based on economic criteria. Such public services or municipal services can no longer be an instrument of social policy, measures and instruments of social policy must be implemented from sources and funds intended for them from the budget of the units of local self-government, the county and, of course, the state. Why are we doing this? So that every system would be sustainable. This has also been done with water, with a water economy where these criteria have been introduced. And I also believe that it is extremely important in this activity to price and to place these activities on a clear basis means that they are set up with clear economic criteria in order to be sustainable in the long term. Because what happens today, I often do, I think it's clear and understandable is the issue of price is the issue of local policy. And often it comes down to it, entering the sphere of social policy, which cannot possibly be. Of course, we need to lead on socially endangered layers of society, take care and care and then define certain exceptions when creating the price. But the general price must not be an instrument for collecting political points and an instrument for social policy. There were a few more questions here that were asked. So this isn't about the hybrid model of special waste management. It's about two models, two possible models that were developed in this law. Why? So no matter what we want, we want to change things overnight, but it's not possible to change them. We might want to turn something around for years, for decades that went wrong but that's not possible, it's much easier to talk or read from paper, much harder to take responsibility and know and predict what's going to happen to a complex and complex system. That is why two models are envisaged, one existing it is a fund and this organization, the principle of recovery of an organisation that will, in particular, be assessed as being exposed and constructed by all market mechanisms, then it will be decided that this particular category will, therefore, be used and recycled to be carried out through that recovery organisation. We have the same thing when we talk about European experiences, we have experience where countries like Croatia have also turned the system around and started to recovery organizations. But after 4 or 5 years of that system, they are now returning to the fund system. For what? In the absence of market mechanisms and in order to establish market mechanisms, in order to make the market approximately perfect, this will depend on the size of that market so that it is not just so simple. It is much easier to say or copy a model in Europe or some European countries, and I think that we are in some way specific and that we cannot simply copy models and what is good and what has proved to be working I think we should keep it because any changes in the system, therefore cost and time we do not have. So obligations and deadlines have been assumed, and every change, the fundamental change of system costs time and money. So we're here to work on achieving our goals. It was a matter of clear answer to representatives of Tyrell about the solution, a missing concession solution. So, the thing is, it's an old thing that happened according to the information that I received in the last term, so during the time the secretary of state was Mr. Ruzynski so if you're interested, we can also report to you in writing on the details. It's a matter of construction waste. I think that's where the pots got mixed up. Construction waste should primarily be recycled, and if it is a delay then it is a delay which, according to the hierarchy, is the last acceptable variant, then it is necessary to pay for it and only recycling does not say that it has to be paid so a clear explanation. And let me get this straight. This law is one of the important newspapers that enables it to open and improve and develop a waste management market, which is precisely these arguments and those provisions of the law dispute all the more difficult for this law to please anyone. So, liberalization of excerpts of collection permits and waste treatment. No longer through concessions as was the example and so far, but through permits where anyone who wants to invest in waste processing can obtain a permit, build a facility and obtain a permit and deal with this business. And they simply don't make it more difficult for anyone to be comfortable here, and, in fact, that system of excerpts has been fully simplified by what is a reform move where we concentrate on procedures rather than on the construction itself, the procedures that take place in a particular activity of the treatment or recycling of waste. And that's what reform is, which is a newspaper and that will definitely result in significant positive shifts in these waste management activities. And the provisions aimed at the grey economy, i.e. the black waste management market, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, we have particularly worked on these provisions to buy out secondary raw materials or waste which represent secondary raw materials to reduce this black or grey market to a minimum measure and I am sure that the provisions of this law will provide that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44690	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Replications have been reported to your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44691	Dear Ministers, the fact is that there are certain positive reforms in this law concerning municipal waste, but municipal waste in the total cake of waste if memory does not deceive me is involved with about 5%. Which is quite a small amount compared to the total amount of waste in the Republic of Croatia, and this is the Sustainable Management Act for all types of waste, except for those exceptions. Of course, the compensation for waste disposal is a good instrument but this instrument is not enough in terms of a thorough reform. And here I would remind you of the audit report, the Environmental Protection Fund and the energy efficiency that we had a chance to discuss in the Assembly a few months ago, and where the audit report estimated that this model that exists currently in the fund was not placed on market legs, i.e. that the prices for certain categories of commercially cost-effective waste are assessed out of the blue. And that is not good, and in Europe there are market criteria for certain commercial waste types. These ratios can only be achieved by the stock exchange mechanism where the supply and demand ratio is valid. And that's the only way we can get to one real waste price. Should I remind myself that in Croatia the price of a ton of PET packaging waste was 50 euros while on world markets was 400 euros? Well, no one can tell me that it's not a favor for recycling that they can buy for 50 euros a ton of waste and sell it later on for 400 euros on the world market. And as long as that's how it's gonna be, the fund's gonna lose money. And I just can't agree with that model. And I think you can do anything if you want to, you just have to want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44692	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44693	And yes, it will be difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44694	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Michael Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44695	Thank you very much. I think when we talk about the Law on municipal waste management, municipal waste is extremely important and crucial. Communal waste generates special categories of waste. From municipal waste, we have an annual estimate of valuable, useful ingredients of mixed municipal waste worth 500 million kuna. And there's absolutely no point in saying that it's the smallest and least important segment of this waste. But I don't want to go into controversy with you, Mrs. Holly, but regarding the issue of managing PET packaging, these problems are identified and solved in the fund so that the price of purchases, i.e. the sale of PET packaging, will be defined and aligned with the prices listed on the world market. Now I can just ask a question here and be a little naughty, like you are, but I won't, so why don't you in six months or how long have you been a minister? So this debate certainly will not contribute to the adoption of a better quality law. We have to admit that it is a law that is truly reformable and that will ensure that all implementation mechanisms are established, that the obligations of all stakeholders that are important for the whole system to work are clearly defined. The results won't be in a month or two because they don't come overnight. The commitment of the local self-government, the mayor and all of us are important. This is about changing consumer behavior habits, people's habits, and as you well know, it doesn't work overnight. It's a process and we're creating foundations with this law and I expect everyone to be actively involved in changing this whole system and value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44696	Thank you very much, Minister. Next replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44697	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you may have misunderstood this, but I said that the negotiations required that around 3.5 billion euros be realised by 2025 in the implementation of this section, which regulates the Waste Management Act. That's clear, there's no need to talk about it for long. As far as the law itself is concerned, and in particular these two models of collection or management of specific categories of waste, I did not say that I did not agree with it, I did not say on the committee or in my debate, and I said something else, which is that this law does not have enough tools and instruments in which the Recovery Organisation can guarantee that its obligation defined by this law will be implemented and that the state must, or the Government, have better instruments to control the implementation of the obligations undertaken by the Recovery Organisation. And third thing, I agree, and it's good that you've kept the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund, it's good. I am not one of those who say that a state body, a state institution, because of any deviations, irregularities and even illegalities should be abolished, should change people who must therefore be processed if this has occurred. But who assures us in advance that in any other organization that will be told along the way, not even the state will all be angels there who will not have any deviations or irregularities in their work. So this model for me is good, but it's not fixed. What I said, and that is why I asked for another reading that would have been better done if we had been able to define the model or instrument, or tools that the state could implement through both models a clear obligation to implement quality waste management, and especially the management of specific categories of waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44698	Thank you very much. And the third replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44699	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's the minister you said was over with the social components regarding the units of local self-government and that the time has come for the price to be based on an economic base when it comes to local self-government units, and that's exactly what I was saying in my debate that we think the time has come finally for the ministry but the fund is starting to operate on an economic basis. And about this stock market that my colleague Holly mentioned, an example of a special type of waste, and then we buy out 1,100kg of old cars, and then it's a special waste that we pay for. In that car is very, very little dangerous waste all this can be removed in 10 to 15 minutes. That car wreck, like a lemon, has its own market price, but then from the fund, we're paying that purchaser or whoever's taking that waste right out of that fund. And I don't think it's on an economic basis, and I don't think that's good. As for the gray market, you said it included the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. The problem would be very, very simple to solve, tax on secondary raw materials. So anyone who brings a secondary raw material to it is accounted for by a certain percentage of the tax, is paid into the state budget and we would have a record as we should have. After all, we would fill the state budget in another way and maybe we wouldn't need cameras to record who's selling them stoves or old cars.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44700	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Mihale Zmajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44701	Thank you very much. Very short. When we talk about specific categories of waste and fees, you are one part right when you say that these fees are excessive or they are paid above what is necessary. And that is why we are changing these fees by an urgent procedure, especially when it comes to the management of waste vehicles where it has been established that, after the establishment of the system, in certain stages of the collection and processing and the fees may be less or somewhere in some phases and processes, they may even be abolished. When we talk about the gray market, this law actually ensures that the purchase of secondary raw materials registers everything that goes beyond personal needs in the law is defined which is the financial value. The ransom must also be carried out through the jury, according to the proposal of the law, means that it is recorded, and that the tax will also be paid. And that's why it's also important for us to get into the system, record and pay taxes for it. If you just prescribe a tax obligation, actually, it's now a prescribed value added tax, and you didn't register that trade, then we're in trouble because we have a high percentage of the gray economy. And it is this law that we decide that most of the sale or trade of secondary raw materials of any waste raw material is registered, registered and taxed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44702	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna stop with the session. We will continue tomorrow on Friday 28 June this year with the 8th item of the agenda Final proposal of the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 425 and one more, and then we'll vote on the points. I'll see you tomorrow. Every good thing. Final proposal of the Sustainable Waste Management Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 427. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline of the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement about the proposal. Who's in favour of deciding and discussing the amendments? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 78 votes for and 25 abstentions have been accepted to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, fellow Stazic, we can. And the minister to show up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44704	We are moving on to the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment One, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44705	Thank you very much. Amendment 1 therefore entered into force as a new Commission Regulation amending Regulation 1013/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste shipments. In the course of the adoption of the final proposal, the way in which that Regulation is to be referred to is amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44706	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who is for Amendment 1 to Article 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia? Against? Abstained? Score. I find that the amendment has been accepted by 77 votes to and 23 against. Amendment 2 to Article 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44707	Thank you. The proposed amendment allows the local self-government unit to determine the area of public collection service, mixed municipal waste and biodegradable municipal waste at the level of change in self-government. So, local city quarter or city board... In accordance with the Law governing local and regional self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with this, paragraph 7 shall also be amended in such a way that the decision also contains a definition of the area of supply and public service. The amendment of paragraph 8 refers to the correction of the error in the number of calls items.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44708	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? And the result, please. I conclude that the amendment was accepted by a majority of 77 votes in favour and 23 against. ... 25 against. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Amendment 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia on Article 31
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44709	Therefore, this amendment therefore amends Article 31(1) and (2) to supplement the expression of a material provision because public institutions are not subject to the concept of ownership within the meaning of the rules governing companies. A new paragraph 7 has also been added to determine which body of the local self-government unit takes the decision to grant a concession for the provision of public service for the collection of mixed and biodegradable municipal waste and, accordingly, legally completed paragraph 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44710	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And I shall vote on Amendment 3 to Article 31. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I declare the amendment accepted by 78 votes to 26 against. Amendment 4 has been withdrawn, hasn't it, Minister? So we move on to Amendment 5 to Article 35. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44711	It's the fifth amendment to the article...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44712	That's right, the fourth government pulled out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44713	Okay. The proposed amendment provides for the obligation of the public waste collection service provider to determine the price list, i.e. the price for public services to collect mixed municipal waste, i.e. biodegradable municipal waste, with the possibility of calculating the price by weight of waste, or the volume of waste storage. Furthermore, to monitor the implementation of the provisions of this article, the State Inspectorate is responsible under the law governing consumer protection. The possibility of a representative body of a local self-government unit is also prescribed to introduce a service to users of the obligation to pay a dedicated fee for the purpose of building a building for the management of municipal waste according to a construction programme for municipal waste management.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44714	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I hereby conclude the debate and give the declaration of Amendment 5 to Article 35. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I declare the amendment accepted by 79 votes to 26 against. We move to Amendment 6 to Article 74. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44715	Thank you very much. This amendment sets out a reference to the relevant provision because it is not a specific regulation but a regulation already prescribed in Article 53(3) of this Act for the accuracy of the pronunciation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44716	I'm opening a debate. I hereby conclude the debate and give the declaration of amendments to the 6th Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I declare the amendment accepted by 80 votes to 25 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 7 to Article 157 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44717	The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 157(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44718	I'm opening a debate. I hereby conclude the debate and give the declaration of amendments to the 7th Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. I declare that the amendment has been accepted by most votes, 82 votes and 25 votes against. We move to Amendment 8 to Article 161. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44719	Thank you. The amendment of the article concerns the correction of the error in the number of paragraphs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44720	I'm opening a debate. I hereby conclude the debate and vote on Amendment 8 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I declare the amendment accepted by 82 votes in favour and 25 against. Amendment 9 to Article 167 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44721	Thank you. The amendment refers to the alignment of the infringement provision with the material provision of the law and the correction of the error in the number of items of the material provision to which it is called. In addition, the following amendments, which provide for the obligation of the service provider to obtain the consent of the managing authority of the local self-government unit to which the pricer applies, before the price list is applied, an appropriate infringement provision shall be prescribed. In accordance with this Article, paragraphs 1 and 4 shall be nootechnically completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44722	I'm opening a debate. I hereby conclude the debate and vote on Amendment 9 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I declare the amendment accepted by 82 votes for and 25 against. We move on to Amendment 10 to Article 169 of the Law. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44723	Thank you very much. The content of the infringement provision shall be aligned with the transitional provisions of the law, in point 5 of the SDP's amendment to Article 179(5), and in point 7 of the draft draft law. In accordance with the amendments to Article 33, the obligations of the unit of local self-government shall be laid down that the funds collected from the purposeal benefit for the prescribed purposes shall also be subject to an appropriate infringement provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44724	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving the amendment to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I declare the amendment accepted by 82 votes in favour and 24 against. We move on to Amendment 11 to Article 170. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44725	Thank you very much. The content of the infringement provision shall be aligned with the material provisions of the law following the error of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44726	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendment number 11 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I declare that the amendment has been accepted with 81 votes and 24 against. Amendment 12 to Article 171 has been withdrawn. Isn't that right, Minister? Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44728	So we move on to Amendment 13 to Article 179. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44729	The proposed amendment required the harmonisation of the transitional and final provisions in accordance with Article 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44730	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia No 13. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I declare that the amendment has been accepted by most votes, 81 votes against and 24 against. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44731	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44732	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I shall vote on Amendment 14 to Article 182. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I declare the amendment accepted by 80 votes in favour and 24 against. We move to Amendment 15 to Article 183(2). Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44733	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment therefore required to update the number of National Journals for those Regulations with the latest amendments and additions to those Regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44734	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I shall vote on Amendment 15 to Article 183. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? The amendment was accepted with most votes, 80 votes in favour and 24 against we are moving to the second group of amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment one to Article 30. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44735	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment allows the local self-government unit to determine the area of public service at local self-government level in accordance with the law governing local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44736	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I shall vote on amendment one to Article 30. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has been accepted by 79 votes in favour and 16 against. Amendment two to Article 31
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44737	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44738	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I shall put amendments two to Article 31 to the vote. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The amendment was accepted by 79 votes to 13 against. Amendment 3 to Article 32 Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44739	Thank you very much. This amendment undertakes to provide human services to provide a work report other than the representative body of the local self-government unit and the Environmental Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44740	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the vote on Amendment 3 to Article 32. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The amendment was accepted by 79 votes for and 12 against. Amendment number four to Article 33. Laws of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44741	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment provides for a public waste collection service provider to determine the price list, i.e. the price of public service to collect mixed municipal waste and to monitor the implementation of this article, which defines that the State Inspectorate is in accordance with specific rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44742	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving amendment number four to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The amendment was accepted with 81 votes for and 12 against. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Here are the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44743	Thank you very much. The addition of those provisions allows units of local self-government to participate in the ownership structure of a company managed by the Waste Management Centro.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44744	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I give the amendment No. 5. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The amendment was accepted with 81 votes for and 12 against. Amendment No. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44745	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment required that the words "and the fundamental knowledge of chemistry" be deleted, given that that condition was assessed by unnecessary explicit reference in this place.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44746	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I give the amendment No. Six. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? The amendment was accepted by 82 votes for and 12 against. Amendment No. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article Government of the
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44747	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment corrects the weather error.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44748	Okay. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I shall give the declaration of amendments 7. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? Amendment No. The 7th was accepted by 82 votes for and 12 against. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44749	The proposed amendment lays down more precisely the annexes to the request in accordance with the statement of the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44750	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment No. 8. Government of the Republic of Croatia? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. The amendment was accepted by 82 votes for and 12 against. Amendment 9 to Article 169 Government of the
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44751	The content of the infringement provision shall be aligned with the transitional provisions of the law, in accordance with point 5 of the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 179(5) and on point 7. In accordance with the amendments to Article 33, the obligations of the local self-government unit shall also be laid down to benefit from the collection of the intended compensation for the prescribed purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44752	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I give the amendment No. Nine. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has been accepted by 82 votes in favour and 12 against. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44753	Thank you very much. The proposal for an amendment aligns the content of the infringement provisions with the material provisions of the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44754	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I give the amendment No. Ten. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? The amendment was accepted with 81 votes for and 12 against. Amendment No. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44755	The proposed amendment corrects the error of calling on the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44756	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I hereby declare this amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The amendment was accepted with 80 votes for and 13 against. Amendment No. Article 179, point (b) of the first subparagraph, point (c) is replaced by Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44757	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment required the harmonisation of the transitional and final provisions in accordance with Article 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44758	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I give the amendment No. 12. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The amendment was accepted with 81 votes for and 13 against. Amendment No. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44759	The proposed amendment required updating the number of National Journals for those Regulations with the latest amendments and additions to those Regulations published in the National Journal of the European Union. 86.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44760	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I give the amendment No. 13. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? The amendment was accepted with 81 votes for and 12 against. Amendment No. Article 186 is replaced by the following: Government of the Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44761	Thank you very much. Since Article 11 of the Regulation on the control of cross-border waste also provides for border crossings between the Republic of Croatia and non-EU countries, it was necessary to put into force that provision until a regulation is adopted to regulate that problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44762	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I give the amendment No. 14. Government of the Who's in? Against? Restraint? The amendment was accepted with 81 votes for and 14 against. And the last amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is Amendment 15 to Article 187. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44763	In view of the termination of certain provisions of the Law on the municipal economy in the section relating to the collection and disposal of municipal waste to certain landfills and the disposal of municipal waste, it was necessary to provide for the possibility of continuing the operation of municipal activity, maintaining the purity in the section relating to the collection and disposal of municipal waste to certain landfills and the communal waste disposal activity under the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44764	I'm opening a debate. I am concluding the debate and giving the amendment number 15 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. The amendment was accepted 81 votes for, 14 against and 2 abstentions. We're moving on to the amendments to the SDP Representatives Club. Amendment 1 to Article 29.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44765	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44766	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44767	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44768	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44769	It's unacceptable. The same has been resolved by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44770	So it's consummated there's no need to vote on it. Proposer?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44771	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44772	The amendment has been withdrawn. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44773	It's unacceptable. The same was resolved by the government's amendment to the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44774	Proposer?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44775	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44776	He's pulling. The amendment has been withdrawn. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44777	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44778	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44779	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44780	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44781	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44782	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44783	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44784	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 9 to Article 179
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44785	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44786	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44787	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44788	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 11 to Article 186.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44789	It's unacceptable. It was addressed by the Government's amendment to the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44790	Proposer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44791	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44792	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 12 to Article 187.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44793	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44794	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendments to MP Nancy Tyrelli. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44795	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44796	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44797	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44798	It becomes an integral part of the law. We've exhausted the list of amendments. I thank the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44799	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44800	We're moving on to a plea. Representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44801	Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44802	I'm sorry, it's my fault. We have another amendment of yours. Minister, please return. Amendment 3 to the Convention between the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation’s
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44803	It is not accepted because this provision does not restrict the right of citizens or other interested parties to submit applications if they suspect that there is a breach of the rules. This provision affects the submission of unfounded applications after the surveillance has already been carried out, which has not been established in breach of the rules which the environmental protection inspection is authorised to monitor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44804	Representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44805	We've changed 19% of this law today with amendments to the government and the SDP 19%. At 11 a.m., the chairman added to the agenda, at 14 o'clock there was a Committee on Environmental Protection, and we discussed this law the same day here at the assembly about 17 o'clock. After two weeks you come with your 20 almost 30 amendments... Here's what I'm gonna do. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] You by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44806	Comrade Tyrelli, don't come into my word. I opened the debate on the amendments to the government you could have called on behalf of the club and said what you wanted, but now you can defend your amendment number 3 and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44807	Okay. For the purposes of Article 145 of the Act, this amendment is subject to the provisions of the inspection supervision of any business facility or business entity, regardless of the findings of the environmental protection inspection, provided that the applicant so requests, and at that time until the applicant is satisfied with the inspection supervision. In this way, by rejecting this amendment, you throw your own inspectors under your feet who you do not trust in this because they have made a powerful solution but they still have to carry out inspection supervision if it is requested by any citizen or competition of that business entity. It's only now that Mr. Pripus has commended you for being a good minister that we come up with this way. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-27-0.u44808	Who is in favour of Amendment 3 of Nancei Tyreli to Article 145, which the Government does not accept? The amendment obviously didn't get the required majority. We will now declare the final proposal for a law on sustainable waste management. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the Final Proposal for the Sustainable Waste Management Act has been adopted with 81 votes in favour, 16 against and 5 abstentions.
