ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41917	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The labour law is a law that regulates more relationships in society, not only is it a relationship between workers and employers but it is one of the fundamentals of the social order and one of the fundamental laws that enable workers and employers to be treated in a way that both sides should have obligations and rights, but on the other hand that both sides respect the needs and when we talk about the needs of workers and the needs of employers. What is the characteristic of our Labour Act is that it is a law that has been more modified and that whenever we talk about amendments to the Labour Act and amendments are followed by extensive discussion and with clear tensions and tensions because of the interesting issues that we regulate the Labour Act. This government has stressed that we will change the Labour Act. That we would change it in two steps because we were obliged to amend part of the Labour Act on European Workers' Councils, so we should return to the Labour Law and put the EU Directive. And then, on many occasions, we told this speaker that the Labour Act would change in two steps this year. So, the first step is today, therefore, to amend the existing Labour Act, and that in the second half of this year we will come with the new Labour Act and that in this Labour Act we will address those issues that concern easier employment, labour market, relationship between employer and worker. And I hope that, as for this law that is before you today, we will receive the support of MPs and advocates. The labour law was bragged by meetings between social partners. There have been several meetings and this version that is today in front of you is in line with the social partners, so unions and employers. Clearly, it is a fruit not only of agreement but of fruit and negotiations and should be observed in a way that is a compromise between one and the other. And clearly, both of them, in the first row when we talk about trade unions and employers, are satisfied or not satisfied with individual solutions. But the Labour Act will never satisfy one side, and the other one will never be satisfied. And what this government is trying to achieve, it wants to reach a consensus on these things. And what we're glad to see is that, on the proposal of this, we've reached a consensus on this bill between unions and employers. The negotiations were long, the negotiations were complicated but we ended them within a relatively short period of time, which is in favour of the climate that the Labour Law is changing and that it is clear to everyone that the law as it should be adapted and the crisis, so that it reacts more easily in times of crisis, that legislation is more restructured, that businesses are more restructured. But what the government said when we started to change this law, it set itself three goals. The first goal is that the Labour Act must protect the weaker one, it must protect the worker because the worker is ever weaker and therefore the law must give him adequate protection. But on the other hand, it is necessary that the law enables employers to be more easily restructured, to facilitate their employment and to enable businesses to respond more quickly and adequately to the crisis that is in Croatia today, which will pass but will probably be a crisis again and the law must be able to respond more easily and easily to the crisis. And the third goal is that, based on legal practice, the practice of courts, the verdicts wanted to change part of the Labour Act in a way that we could bring it into line with the case law because certain provisions were obviously not well solved, so it was possible to interpret it in a two-way way, we wanted to avoid it. And the second thing that matters is that we wanted the law to be legible, simple, and understandable. Clearly, these changes will not be achieved today, but with the new labour law that we announce will come very quickly to the debate in the Assembly, this rule will therefore be met to be simple, readable and understandable. That means there shouldn't be any need for interpretations of the law as it has been so far. What have we done with these laws of law? One thing is that we have brought the law into line with the EU acquis, i.e. with a revised EU Directive establishing a European Workers' Council or a process of notifying and consulting workers in the employers or related employers in the area of the community. We have also settled in agreement with the social partners of a particular provision of the law, and I point out that we have harmonised the Law on Working with the practice of the EU Court of Justice, especially when it comes to working for a certain period of time, the collective surplus of workers, the use of replacement leave in case of use of exceptions, from the application of the provisions for the duration of work of the night worker, daily and weekly rest. In short, I'd like to visit what we've changed by law. We have fully aligned the law with the EU directive, and we have also amended certain parts of the law. Under the EU directive, overtime can and should only take 8 hours a week. In so far, we have put a limit on overtime, except for 8 hours a week and 32 months, which has caused problems in the organisation of working hours, and that has been warned by trade unions and employers because this restriction has made it impossible for people working particularly in Rome to organise themselves properly and properly. Therefore, since neither the directive recognises it, and that we have had the requirements of both trade unions and employers abolished the time limit of work at a certain time at the level of the month, so the part that is related to the directive remains the limit of overtime of 8 hours per week and 180 hours per year, respectively. Working for a certain time was generally supposed to be an exception, but when you look at the number of work contracts completed last year or last year, then you will see that over 80% of the contract is completed at a certain time, and only 10% and 20% on indefinite time, respectively. However, we are still a country in which there is an indefinite period of time, and most of the contracts in the country are concluded indefinitely, but we see that the institute of work is used for a certain period of time more than it is envisaged, because if we say that working on a certain time is a work that is applied in exceptional circumstances, and that, as a rule, work contracts should be concluded indefinitely. We should have changed things in that area. Therefore, we also understand the problems of those who organise and hire workers and knowing that in this area it should be possible that when the need for work is longer than three years to enable it, but on the other hand to in some way prevent the infinite extension of the contract for a certain period of time so people work for a decade and 15 years with contracts for a certain time. Therefore, for the first contract for a period of time, we abolished the condition that this contract should last for no longer than 3 years for the first time. According to this solution we propose the first contract for a certain period of time may last for more than 3 years but is conditional on what this contract is for. So I have to be the reason, it must be an example if someone on long-term sick leave can be a replacement for more than three years, if there is a project to hire a certain number of workers that lasts 4 or 5 years then these workers can get a contract for a certain period of time that will take 4 and 5 years for the current settlement in the current law to be limited to 3 years. So we have made it possible for the first contract to be concluded for a certain period of time and for a longer period of 3 years, however, we have limited the consecutive contracts. Therefore, consecutive contracts cannot be concluded for more than 3 years. and that means that if someone who has concluded a contract for a certain period of time for 4 or 5 years can no longer conclude a new contract for the same job for another three years. Therefore, the condition remained the same. So, we're restricting a consecutive repeat of the contract for a certain period of time. We are aware that we are not going to solve the problem that we all have but this way we will clear up some of the issues about work for a certain time. And the other part is control, work inspector's work, control. And that's what we're going to be working on, too, because this law won't work unless it's controlled at a higher level. Therefore, even in the work inspectorate itself, we will change things and raise them to a higher level. We also had enquiries from both trade unions and employers about the time duration of the committee between the two working processes. According to the current law on certain activities, especially in tourism and agriculture, the limitation of daily and weekly holidays to 10 hours made it impossible to organise work better and simpler. For example, it is tourism where a waiter who serves dinner at a hotel cannot serve breakfast in the morning because between the completion of one work process and the start of another is less than 10 hours. Therefore, in this proposal for a law, we have reduced the shortest duration of rest in case of use of replacement leave, in the event of the use of exceptions to the application of the provisions on the duration of the night worker, daily and weekly rest from 10 to 8 hours. So, we'll make it possible for a better organisation, but we've also introduced another fuse only if it's agreed with the union. So the government is committed to social dialogue. And in the Labour Act, in all those places where cooperation and employers and unions are needed, we've introduced that part. So this can be applied in those companies where a deal has been reached between trade unions and employers so that it can reduce the week's vacation from 10 a.m. to 10 a.m. on a daily and weekly vacation from 10 to 8 a.m. Of course, the worker has the right when he completes the work process on those replacement 2 hours of rest. In the process of corporate restructuring, we have seen some things that should be changed, therefore, with the programme, when the collective surplus workers were taken care of in the process we significantly shortened the procedure from 90 days to 30 days. Because in this process it's important that when the process starts to end it as soon as possible. And according to this proposal of the law more the Croatian Employment Service will not need to give consent to the programme of providing collective extra workers but will only need to be notified. What we also want to highlight and promote the very role of the Croatian Employment Service in collective care of workers is that employers should use mobile teams of the Croatian Employment Institute much more often than they have done so far. And especially in the light of entering the European Union where we are of the 1st. 7. they are opening up the European Globalisation Fund. These funds can be used for the programme of care of workers, they are directed directly at the worker rather than at the employer. So this change will also allow for simpler restructuring. We have better defined which categories of workers are included in the collective surplus workers. And I hope that this process, which is clearly inevitable in some companies, will be completed in time and will be completed together in cooperation with the Croatian Employment Service. The trial work is an institute designed to assess whether your future employee, the employee is responding to the job and qualifications for the job during the trial work. However, since the definition of trial work and trial work contracts was not sufficiently clearly defined, in court practice we had many times the opportunity to see that when the employer cancelled the worker's work on probation, during the trial work that the judges considered it to be a cancellation as well as any other cancellation of the labour contract and that all those procedures that preceded the termination of the labour contract were then carried out. So in this bill of law, we simplified things, and we made it easier to quit the labor contract more easily during the cancellation period. But on the other hand, we have protected the worker in a way that he has the right to be damaged in all of this to the protection that belongs to him under this law and to judicial protection. But here we are, given that the government has also addressed the amendment to that part, so we have further strengthened protection by referring to that institute and those articles that speak about when and for which reason the labour contract cannot be cancelled, so Articles 109 and 116. The agencies for temporary and occasional employment are agencies that play a major role in the labour market and in Croatia they started working and working and I hope it will work even better. We noticed the problem in their functioning that the Agency for Temporary Employment could not also carry out employment activities, so these agencies were moving in a way that they founded other companies of daughters who did so for them. We have understood and agreed that the simplest way for temporary employment agencies to carry out activities in relation to employment is that it is clear that the person who gives in to the worker can and does all those jobs that are related to employment. It is clear that agencies should be monitored, that they should be monitored and this law introduced that the Ministry of Labour and Pension System is a body that will oversee the work of temporary employment agencies. And we have also established a monitoring system, which means that agencies will have to supply statistical data to the Ministry of Labour and the pension system to follow clearly what and how and where it happens. And the last change is the change that is related to Croatia's entry into the European Union, so those work books that we are connected to, some are emotionally related to them, go back in history. So the work book of 1.7 this year will no longer be a means of proving labour status in the Republic of Croatia. This was an obstacle to the smooth collapsing of labour in the European Union because the European Union does not recognise the work book as the Institute of Evidence of Labour and the basis of our accession negotiations it disappears. However, labour law does not disappear, so since 1.7 all employers in the Republic will conclude work books for all workers in Croatia, cross-check out unfulfilled sections, and these work books will then need to be delivered to workers. In those cases where the employer cannot do so for a variety of reasons, whether the worker is not aware of his address or the worker has left the company, then these workbooks will be delivered to HZMO because it is the place where we will keep the work books of those to whom we cannot hand them. Work-legal status until 1.7 this year will be proven with a work book, and from 1.7 this year, a record of working-legal status is being introduced in HZMO where we will all be able to see where we were employed, we have been paid contributions, what these contributions have been and will be possible to calculate a possible pension with those data that are in that work-law status. It will also make it possible for us not to get what's been happening to us for many years, which is that no contributions are paid, that when people retire, they see that someone didn't pay a kuna of contributions 10 years ago, you have an internship, but you have no contributions, which then leads clearly to smaller pensions and all of those other problems that are related to it. We are sure that with these changes when we talk about working-law status and allowing all employees in the Republic of Croatia to come very simply through web interfaces to their data that we will introduce another control, so not only control through labour inspectors but also control all of us who are employed because we will be able to see if the employer is paying us contributions or not paying us. One of the big newspapers will come here and before the Parliament very soon, is the introduction of a unique form of tax, cut and contribution, so for the first time in the Republic of Croatia we will have a unique form for everything the worker receives. That way we'll have another extra control that we don't get what's been going on over the past few years when no payouts have been paid, when no contributions have been paid. The papers are also going to the State Inspectorate, so labour inspectors and labour protection inspectors will play a different role than they have so far. They were also primarily those who punished, penalized, and that is their role, but their role should also be preventive, so there will be much more visits to employers, will be dealt with in another way and the issue of control because for some violations it will be clear that there will be an immediate mandate, so there will be punishment on the spot for some violations from that part, but for some violations we will introduce yellow charts. This means that the employer will have time for 8 days, 15 days to correct what the labour inspector found, and that if he doesn't do it just to be punished, because we think it's important to prevent things from happening, and that by punishing things, we won't run what's known that by punishing you can't move a lot of things. It is also new that since 1.1.2014, so once we adopt in the Assembly the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, so that law is coming very quickly to the assembly benches, the application of workers will be within 24 hours. This means that we will report directly through web interfaces, we will be able to report through other media. So we want to avoid what's happening now that people are working seven, eight days on black because they're not reported by the employer, so when the labour inspector comes, here we are now agreed, the man's just come to work. After the amendments to the law, the application will be in 24 hours. And what is also significant is that labour inspectors will also be bound to all these bases, and they will be able to do so at the time when they control the company not only see whether the worker is registered, but also whether the contributions were paid to him. So, the change goes a lot. What follows us now are agreements and discussions on the amendments to the Labour Act, i.e. the adoption of a new Labour Act, where we will discuss and discuss other interesting issues such as cancelled deadlines, severances, working hours. So, I hope that in this area as well as in these amendments to the Labour Act, we will achieve agreement and that these changes will result in what we all want to see and that is the protection of workers but also the possibility of easier restructuring of businesses and easier employment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41918	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. The replicas have been reported to your presentation, so let's get in line. The first replica and respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41919	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you have also referred to a part of the law that is changing. It refers to the Agency for Temporary Employment. The best Labour Act and the best Labour Act without protection and control is no use to workers. This protection may be granted by courts and by the judiciary, as well as by the authorities or institutions with public authority. In March of last year, you gave me an answer on my parliamentary question that in Croatia you have registered and issued licences for the work of 40 such agencies in your ministry. I contacted the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance to provide me with information on the number of people employed by those agencies and they replied that on the list I provided them, this is your list of six of them are not registered as employers that they do not have them on record, that 8 agencies do not have any registered employees, and the other 26 employ 3127 employees. The Peace Department, so he answered that six of them had never been recorded again, that they didn't even know they existed and that I should deliver their OIB to them to provide me with information on the number of employees. But interestingly, they gave me information that these other agencies are hiring 3717 employees in the service. The State Inspectorate gave me a report that he had 37 controls at the same time. At 14 the agency found everything ok. 15 didn't control or control at all, and those 10 supervised four were supervised by none of the employees. Since you are expanding the powers of these agencies I kindly ask you to line up, comply with your pensioners, the State Inspectorate and health insurance, because obviously the mess starts in your ministry because you have issued permits and you do not control the work of those agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41920	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41921	Dear MPs, it is true that according to the current law, we had the power to record. So the ministry had no administrative oversight powers, nor had the authority to control the agencies. So, just by amending this law, we are going to do this, that the Ministry of Labour and Pension System not only issues permits and records but also has administrative oversight over the work of these agencies. And on the other hand, with a special regulation, we're going to define all the information that agencies need to deliver that this isn't happening to us what you just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41922	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41923	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Minister. It's impossible in these two minutes to say everything that should be said as a replica, or I don't want to tell you what is said in Dalmatia chipping hair along. But one basic thing, I don't think that by changing the law, nothing is actually achieved. All in the country is clear without changing the Labour Act there is no increase in the efficiency of the state public sector, without increasing the efficiency of the public sector there is no increase in the efficiency of the state administration. And you in your efforts, not only with this proposal, otherwise we're following you to concentrate on the workers, how you've given the worker a notice as easily as possible, how to reduce the number of workers, and you don't realize that the main problem is in the unemployed. You don't contribute to any efficiency in terms of firing the drone. You need to find a model how to give easy notice to a non-worker and possibly some other variables change or make, specifically pay. 10% make the pay variable, or variable, or at least what you punish one with 10% of the workers so you can share it with a good worker. And that's what you need to do. So, let's say the headmaster of a hospital that has three and a half thousand people to always be the number of workers of three and a half thousand people. But that the hospital director, as a responsible person, has the right to fire the unemployed with an explanation as about the state administration in Germany is looking for. Because you haven't done anything to clarify things that are facts on the basis of which the responsible person has the right to resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41924	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the Croatian Parliament Committee want to take part and submit reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP club and the respected representative Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41925	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the draft Act amending and supplementing the Labour Act with the final draft law. Namely, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are in line with EU rules, i.e. with the revised Directive 2009/38. Following the provisions of the directive, the proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Act relate to improving the effectiveness of the implementation of the notification and consultation process at the transnational level. Taking into account the amendments and additions introduced in this area by that Directive, the proposed law clearly lays down the criteria to determine the transnational character of the issues to be implemented by the notification and consultation of workers in the employer or related employers operating at EU level. In fact, there were doubts, so this law clearly states that the transnational question is considered to concern employers or related employers or at least two employers, branches or related employers in two Member States. The social partners reached agreement on issues relating to European working councils and provisions regulating the work of temporary employment agencies, regulation of replacement holidays and overtime. A new item is introduced, which says: "The worker must be allowed to use the replacement daily or weekly rest immediately after the end of the period he spent at work, which led him to use a shorter daily or weekly rest." It is precisely this provision in order to prevent excessive fatigue of workers to protect the rights of workers who can be covered by the prescribed exceptions to daily and weekly rest and is further secured in such a way that such exceptions can only be covered by a collective agreement. The law reduces the number of hours of continuous daily rest from 10 to 8. In fact, such a real need exists in tourism, agriculture and hospitality. However, we are a country that cultivates tourism, especially in the Adriatic, which is a specific activity where the guest is looking for a service all day long, a lot of work and employees are required. Therefore, for full-time workers working on seasonal jobs which are carried out on two occasions during the working day, an exception shall be made to the prescribed daily rest period. However, it should be pointed out that the protection of workers and in this case is ensured, given that the worker will then be entitled to a daily rest period of at least 8 consecutive hours and the use of a replacement daily rest period must be granted to the worker immediately after the end of the working period for which he used his daily rest. Special supervision will be carried out in the application of the two provisions mentioned above, which we particularly support. We all know, unfortunately, that for many years now the most popular working contract has been the one for a certain time. Work contracts for a certain period of time are prescribed as an exception to the rules of employment indefinitely. Of course, such a contract creates huge problems for the workers themselves, from uncertainty for the future to being objectively unable to resolve their future because they do not know what to do in a few days or tomorrow. I believe most of us have passed such contracts and unfortunately they're very common. This legislative proposal proposes to limit the conclusion of successive work contracts for a specified period of time. An employer’s obligation is prescribed to provide objective reasons for the new conclusion of a work contract for a specified period of time in that contract, i.e. written confirmation of a contract concluded on work, for reasons justifying a new conclusion of a work contract for a specified period of time. In doing so, the existence of objective reasons as well as the limitation of the total duration of the work contract to a fixed period of three years only relate to consecutive contracts for a specified period of time, but not to the first working contract for a specified period of time. The first contract of work at a certain time does not have a time limit but has in terms of the reasons for which it is concluded. And one reason can also be long - term illnesses. Of course, we are aware of the fact that some employers have misused a work contract for a certain time and I support exactly the provision and that the ministry is very strict in this matter. The social partners also reached an agreement with regard to the abolition of the monthly limit on the number of overtime hours while the limits of overtime are still maintained per week, which is 8 hours, and the annual level, where the overtime of an individual worker should not last longer than 180 hours a year. These changes shall be more precisely arranged by the Institute of Testing. It is proposed that the failure of the probationary work be introduced as a particularly justified reason for the termination of the labour contract which is not subject to the provisions of the Labour Contract Act other than the obligation to have it in writing justified and delivered to the worker. Of course, the ministry here must be very alert and prevent abuses, but the fact is that there are certain jobs for which for example. seek certain motor skills where there is indeed a possibility that the worker may not satisfy. Also, these amendments to the law suggest redefineing the collective surplus workers' institutes and a simpler and clearer consultation process in the design of the extra workers' programme and also a 90-to-30-day reduction, which I think is primarily important for the workers themselves. Finally, the obligation to keep an electronic record of workers' data is also prescribed because the day of EU accession will cease to be the working book as we know it. In fact, it makes sense because the European Union does not know the concept of such a workbook and it is a simple alignment with the EU. In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia since the law has no impact on its expenditures. Since the proposed law is in line with EU rules, the SDP Club considers that there are justifiable reasons for the urgent adoption and we support these amendments and additions to the Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41926	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It is the Club of Independent Representatives in the Croatian Assembly and the Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41927	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. What's the point of this law? means, above all, in order to comply fully with national labour legislation with EU acquis. So this law is in line with these Directives of Europe 94, 45 of 1994.itd. Member States were then obliged to bring national legislation into line by 6 June 2011 with the 2009 Directive and then, among other things, to list a whole series of moments that have been translated into this legal text, so that workers from each Member State have the right to one place in a separate negotiating body or in European working councils at each starting 10% of the total number of workers. So then we see that working on a certain time agency for temporary employment limits the number of overtime hours at monthly level, trial work, collective surplus work, etc. These provisions seek to improve efficiency and thus the competitiveness of business, with full respect for the objectives of the directives on these issues and the practice of the EU Court of Justice. Then work indefinitely, and then we have a substitute for that daily, weekly vacation and not to list all the other simple newspapers. I think we'll all be unanimous about one of these legal proposals, but you know what I can also say, I don't consider myself to be any kind of junostalgic or any other international type, and I don't consider myself to be any kind of person who thinks that that system was ideal until the 1990s, but never a peasant will ever be better off than it was by the age of 90. It was said that the worker had nothing and he had HDZ gentlemen whatever you think I'm not going to say everything, we'll hear it. He had a lot, he got a social apartment, he got a job, it was meant, health care, schooling like today. The truth and then and today people were leaving Croatia but only then was it possible to get a job, get a social apartment and build a cottage. It's true, not everyone could do it, but we know that the vast majority is sitting maybe on my right. What can we expect from this working legislation today? First of all, some of you probably do, and some of us certainly don't. The economic parameters are what they are from the beginning, and some from the village you see. We fought against it, but it's not working. We don't get past that, people are vaccinated on this corruption, as are those who choose HDZ. But what we're going to do is just land. We're not significantly different from that mental set in Istria or I don't know where you won the first or second round of elections. But let's just let it go. Who's gonna pay the highest price for recovery? She'll be paid for by a normal poor woman, but she's always been the most honest one. But this law, whatever it is, I think it's the ones that are the weakest. It is true that workers will never be protected as they were protected during the ZUR until the 1990s, and the fact is that labour legislation until 2000 was far more favourable than it was in 2003, so by 2003 it was more favourable for workers from that until 2011, and these European directives are also a minimum but not perhaps an optimum. However, what is certainly good when we talk about these directives that an agreement has been reached here on the one hand between our trade unions operating in the Republic of Croatia between our employers and the competent ministry or better said policy. I can also agree to, for example. Some small employers are certainly even in a worse position at this time of recession from the workers themselves. Still until the Law of crafts comes into force, it guarantees, for example, all its assets. But what is certainly good is that a consensus has been reached between unions on the one hand and employers when it comes to this mini-legislative reform. We must protect the worker, we must protect the employer, we must protect the same believer. But we also have to create assumptions that it's a matter and that's why we need an operational labour law, one word to survive to come to these capital areas. This is the harmonisation of the law I said with that directive, and the rights of the novels are yet to come. This legal solution I think will achieve real consensus, and the spear will break over a new legislative proposal. I know that the normal government is struggling, trying, I know that it's "dead" for every job, I know that it's a condition without which it can't handle public finances. In which we have a million and 400,000 workers, where we have a million 250 thousand pensioners, 320 thousand unemployed at this time, about 300,000 people working in public services, there are municipalities, cities, counties, and we need to worry about welfare, debt service, investment, guarantees, subsidies, etc. What I think is well solved by this law is this daily vacation. And I will slowly end up with us entering the European Union. It is certain that we will do far more than we do now. I guess we'll be better off the next day when we join the European Union. We're about to open up the market. But I'm afraid that many of the best we could possibly lose because for at least two or three more years, we're going to solve the consequences of this crisis. After that, I guess the economy will kind of live. But surely more will work, more maybe even save, we'll be more real, we'll be more solidarity. We'll share what's earned, created, charged, not what's promised. Yes, I want to believe that more or less we will all support this legal proposal. And what's certainly very good about this proposal is that an offence that needs to be clearly sanctioned can be noted. What the minister would say is "remembrance" under an alleged yellow card, and that's commendable. It is clear that there should be sanctions for working on black. At this point, we are free to say that 30 maybe more than one percent of the unemployed are working on black, and certainly 10, and someone says 20 percent of those who are working in a working relationship are also working under quotes "black". It's clear that part of the work on black cannot be avoided in any way, but if we're talking from 30% of the people working on black, it's simple, or it's about maybe a hundred, maybe 150 thousand people, it's about one unfair competition. Who? To those who work neatly, who pay their contributions neatly, who pay taxes neatly. And it kind of needs to start to contain it, control it. In one word, such work should be eliminated slowly. The law goes that way. I personally think it's a good thing. All in all, the law is good and it's even better that there was this consensus that I mentioned between the unions, between the employer and the politics. So this practice is good. And I also agree with Mr. Marasovic Dujo that a bad worker should be fired, or allowed by the employer to get fired and no one wants to get rid of a good worker, every employer will keep him as a bit of water on his palm because he needs him because without a good worker he simply can't, and the bad one should be thanked in some way. But it's clear that everyone's employee needs to pay politely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41928	Thank you very much. There's a line to your exposure. The first replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41929	Dear Mr. President, my colleague Cain, I understand these statements of yours, as I can see as a way of joining the Communist alliance, or the SDP party as it is called. But I can't accept them as the truth, you know, I can't. That the peasant was the best in the former Yugoslavia. So why did all the villages and all the peasants run away from the village and why did the village fall apart? And the worker that everyone was getting apartments, so I had four of them working for the state, in my family. Four brothers, if I'm here, and one worked against the state because he's a priest and only nobody got an apartment. So they knew who had the dwellings. Then why did all those ships flee from Yugoslavia and melt to Italy by the time they arrived? So Tito killed 200 thousand guys, right back in those 15 days, and those he didn't kill two million after, say, five, ten years when he came into the unemployment crisis, he let them out, he gave them, yes, yes, he let them out, he drove them out to Germany, etc., if he hadn't let them out like cannibals, they'd be out of work with everything that was appropriate for employment, socialist development, etc.. So this business of his, yours in Yugoslavia, it capitulated in the '90s. Yeah, yeah, if there was a year left in that economy, it was already on its knees, it would have had to defacto disintegrate in a public way. Nothing worth it, colleague Cain. I'm sorry you're mistaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41930	Dear colleague Dujomir Marasovic but it has nothing to do with the Labour Act on the agenda. And in the replica, we're talking about a matter that's on the agenda. Thank you very much. Replica response, reply to the replica, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41931	Nothing, I'll just answer him that neither one of my people got an apartment, really, look out, none of mine got an apartment, but I know that many would change for that period and probably mine in relation to this right now. But what weren't your Dujo in the partisans? Huh? Well, they did? They were, they were. So what now? Did they commit these crimes, too? Did they also banish people from the then state, from your Dalmatia or from my Istria? I don't know, so let's stop at the ball.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41932	Thank you very much. But don't, new replica, new replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41933	There you are, sir, Your Honor, Mr. President, saying if it's a replica, I'm doing the same thing now, replicating Mr. Caine, but I support him in those thesis. Because I'm not talking about ideology, I'm talking about the protection of workers, not the participatory that gets on my nerves when Cain mentions it, I'm not talking about it. Until before '90. I started working in '78. For 12 years, I worked during Communism, the worker was more protected a thousand times than he is today. Today, neoliberal capitalism destroys humanity, destroys the dignity of workers, workers dig through garbage cans, no one cares. Today, if one of the workers came to the employer to help him, he'd be ridiculed and kicked out of the office. Who today protects workers with these loose laws, increasingly looser laws. You say you should fire, it's easier to fire a worker. Well, there's 400,000 employees on the market, so you're giving another 400,000 layoffs just to be employers. Today it's all for profit, nothing for a worker. And all of you smiling at that period until '90. In the years you ask, you do the survey, and the polls are done. Most of your '90s. She just got out of the party, signed up for your party. So you're talking about the essence of things, which is about workers, not ideology, not ideological definitions that were bad and that suppressed freedom, but workers were more equal. There were 10% that could do anything, people were closing down, but it had nothing to do with working freedoms. Today workers' freedoms are at risk, this law contributes to further endangerment, every law has fewer and fewer workers' freedoms. No one's talking about it. Well, come on, it hasn't started since the '90s. We have inherited something, we have inherited good practice in the protection of workers, and now we throw workers out on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41934	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41935	Okay, we wanted capitalism, we turned on the light, and now we have what we have. We had two million employees, maybe more, today we have about a million 380 thousand people in this employment relationship. I didn't say the worker should be fired, just so we understand each other. I said that a normally bad worker under quotes or an employer should be allowed to fire a bad worker, and I know that a good worker will hold every employer as a bit of water in his hand. And we can also talk in that period, in one way or another, sure that that ideological segment was bad, it's certain that people were both expelled and imprisoned, but it was also a lot of what we inherited and what was certainly good. Earth's already out there by '70. The year industrialized, the country's tourist base has been laid, it's electrified, not to count further and further. Finally, everything we sell out through conversion and privatisation now or we did in the '90s. until 2000 and some were created during that very period. That's what I wanted to talk about, as I also wanted to apostrophe the position of employment in that period until '90. the year, when really under the law on joint work, that worker was given important other attention than today. Today, the worker is unfortunately equal to the goods, and then he really was the subject of that one business matrix of our non-commercial societies than we had working organizations, and that's something other than what we have today. If it couldn't have been the same for longer periods, we were all aware, but maybe it could have been something good and kept, not just property that was until then... sold out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41936	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41937	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Cain and I noticed this claim from you that the peasant had never been better than he had before in the '90s. I know, I'm aware that you couldn't remember for so long, but you weren't even taught by our honorable older men who worked hard, and they told me how hard it was when they were grinding their attics. They said the same thing when they were forced into cooperatives and paid taxes, and then in that and of course it led to what counterpart Marasovic was talking about. And then efforts were made from 2003 to here that improved and strengthened agricultural family economies, improved production, milk production increased, meat production. And what we witness today, colleague Cain, today we witness the daily decline of the OPG, the decline of milk production, the village is about to break, and the Ministry is deafening it. There's a problem with my colleague Cain, so in that part, I can agree that they're not going to get better these days and that I can't expect a happy future in these circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41938	Thank you, too. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41939	I don't know if the villagers are listening to us, but I know we're out there by the '90s. and maybe even until '94, until '95. produced in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as much food as we needed, and I know that we now import twice as much as we do here. According to this, something is happening, and I know tomorrow may be sooner or worse after the borders are opened than the Croatian peasant will be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41940	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak is next. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41941	Honorable President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I agree with what the minister said at the outset that the Labour Act is one of the fundamental laws and therefore should be given significant attention to it in any case. But what I must say at first, and what the predecessors said, we will not support this Labour Act. Why won't we support him? First, this is the second amendment to the Law on the work of this government, and a third amendment has been announced that will come very soon, the minister said, in the autumn. And each of those three amendments to the Labour Act are intruding at the rights of workers. None of these changes were made in order to improve and ensure the safety of workers. We can understand that labour market conditions can be changed, we can accept the fact that there are new challenges, but we cannot accept the fact that there is no safety of workers. Where are the workers today? What's the situation? We have fewer and fewer workers in Croatia. What does that mean? This means that workers are getting harder and harder to get to work, getting more and more employment and that part of the rigidity that certain regulations and talking about the Labour Act go to the expense of workers. And that's why we won't support these changes to the Labour Act. Clearly, workers and citizens probably knew, and even in the Kukuriku coalition programme, the government's programme didn't write either. It writes somewhere in invisible letters that are slowly increasing into expressions and a certain part of these changes that we are talking about are affecting practically the fundamental rights of workers. What did we have to do with the first amendments to the Labour Act? It was possible to break collective agreements, to reduce workers' rights in such a way that certain rights were abolished and that certain salaries and receipts of workers were reduced. These amendments to the law sort of suit employers. Article 3 when we talk about the restriction and when we talk about reducing daily holidays from 10 to 8 o'clock and here the minister said in tourism, but it is also about agriculture and postal services, which is regulated by the Labour Act, I see no obstacles, and the Labour Act allows workers to be employed on part-time. So part of the job is an employer's organization, but that's not what our employers want to apply, but we're better off reducing that part of the day's vacation. Tomorrow we will wonder why we have so many workers who are sick, who are on sick leave, so primarily because their employers are scolding them, who are silent and who have to do everything they're told and told. And we will reduce that part of the daily rest without asking what consequences will arise. The minister himself said that when we talk about working for a certain time that 80% of the workers work for a certain time. The law prescribed that the Law for a specified time was only an exception, but we practically led that exception into a rule. Why the rule? Well, because it pleases the employers, clearly at the expense of the workers. Workers working for a certain period of time do not have any right, are valued by employers and must remain silent and work and must not complain because they know that they will not be extended to work for a period of time. In some ways, we can accept the fact that for certain jobs that last longer than 3 years there could be contracts at a certain time beyond that deadline because it is in some way the completion of certain jobs. But we cannot accept this fact that employers will be able to abuse it. Why? Because the employer will be able to make some kind of contract for a certain part of the job and that will be the reason for him to enter into a work contract for a certain period of time. And as long as the contract lasts, he will in some way have workers who will have to remain silent and suffer because they know that there will be no further security. And all when we talk about the rigidity of the laws that are increasingly intruding into that part of the downsizing of workers' rights we on the other hand don't have a simple answer to that part of how workers increase safety. And we are practically coming into a situation that part of the work contract at a certain time will last indefinitely, and this will prove in a particular practice and certain cases as a bad solution. The agency for temporary employment already had speeches in these agencies that employed workers there were very large violations of workers' rights, and it is still. They are given certain higher powers in the Labour Act. And I'm asking myself if then and within that the greater powers of them will be violated. Because we know that agency workers can work for up to a year. We had cases that it was everywhere and where more workers worked, but also an institute that can hardly be abused in a way out of practice because part of the workers when we take a combination of work for a certain time and part of the agency then you happen to have workers working for a certain time to three years, then they transfer them all to the agency where they work through the agency to work further at a company of two, three or four months for what the law allows and then they can return to the company again and work for a certain time. That's what employers use in practice. When we talk about overtime, it clearly did not reduce that part of the overtime allowed, but it is an area that is in serious violation. For example, we can take a store where shopkeepers have to come half an hour earlier than their working hours, they have to stay half an hour longer than when it takes hours, but those hours of their work are not recorded anywhere, not paid anywhere, and they are thus damaged through their receipts but also through that part of what they do more and their work is not recorded as overtime work. We can accept this fact that because of the 4 or 5 weeks of each month and that part of the restriction in some ways can be a problem, but ultimately this practice tells us that something else is quite different. And when we take the annual fund of permitted hours, we'll have overtime, we'll have a situation that most employers will know how to use it. Because that part of overtime will be even less recorded. When we're talking, and there's been very little talk here about this part of the collective surplus workers. We have the same situation that workers who declare themselves redundant by amending articles 120 to 122 are no longer obliged to wait for the Office for Employment to show up and practically reduce their employment relationship by 30 days. So they get fired earlier. That's the same thing when we talk about legal provisions that get in the way of reducing workers' rights, and that's also the basic part of why we don't support this way. In those months, there were cases that through the Employment Office they spoke to extra workers through their mobile teams, in some ways preparing them for what would happen to them after the cancellation period when they would be at the Employment Office. These employment officials have also prepared them in some way for them to manage the labour market even though the situation is such that workers can find it very difficult to get a new job one day. But now we won't have that part of the preparation of the workers, we'll have a situation where the employer will determine the surplus, notify the Employment Service and after the cancellation period they'll be at the Employment Office. And something that we especially need to draw attention to at the end, which is a question of probationary work. The law allows the trial work to be done for up to 6 months and now these provisions that we have said that if someone is not satisfied with the trial work, it is enough to inform the worker that he has not satisfied the trial work. He can't complain to anyone, he can't exercise his right any more. And what are we going to have? The employer will hire an employee indefinitely with a test run for 6 months, after 5 months he'll tell him you haven't satisfied the trial work, you can move on. And that is again the method by which part of the employers will be served in a way that abuses this part of the legal solution and we did not in law create protection mechanisms to ensure these workers. At least so far, they could complain and initiate a court dispute, and the thing was that the court dispute required the employer to prove that they had not been satisfied in the trial work, now the proof simply would not be but would be left at the will of the employers and their subjective opinion and thinking whether they were satisfied or not in the trial work. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41942	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we have a line of replicas. First replica and respected representative Vanja Posavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41943	Thank you. Dear colleague, when you said you were concerned about this provision to reduce it means a daily vacation from 10 to 8 hours, however, I would like to stress that it also adds to the provision of a replacement vacation immediately after the end of the period that was so spent without that daily rest. When you say that tourism, especially tourism, can introduce part-time, it's not just that easy. In tourism, especially in large hotel complexes, which I am saying from my experience, you need between the waiter and the chef and the receptionist of the professional worker, the professional worker. And they realize for themselves that this need exists. When you talk about working for a certain time, you have, in fact, in your own debate, somehow made it clear to employers how to avoid this law and find all the holes. The law is clear, but that is why this control must be even stronger and even better in the case of a fixed-term contract because unfortunately, when a law is passed within a few hours, a gap in the law is already sought and how the law is avoided. That's the problem! That's the main problem! And the law as a law very clearly defines it and actually this contract for a certain time is much, much better described by these changes and additions. Now, I think you've already explained to the employers what to do and how to actually make that law break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41944	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41945	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you colleagues were yourself contradictory in your part because you said that I gave in some way the possibility and in some way suggested to employers how to act in the avoidance and violation of a certain law, and you yourself said that the law was very well written. Now I say the law can be very well written in that particular part that doesn't give room to employers that they can manipulate. When I was talking in my part, I was just saying in that part that the law is not good because it opens up this space so that workers' rights are not protected and it allows employers to manipulate workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41946	Thank you very much. The replica of the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41947	You said that the downsizing of employees is one of the reasons for reducing employment and is not a fair relationship between entrepreneurs and workers, and that is the case. You're appealing in some way to rigid legislation. I claim the following all the theoretical settings of modern economic thought, as well as the practice of European and world economies. There is no improvement in the economy without liberalisation of labour law and labour legislation. And we went to the EU, how can we achieve the competitiveness of our economy? If you think... Rigid labour legislation is the way it is, so no one's going to bring any capital. What are we talking about? It is precisely rigid labour legislation that is one of the causes, one of the causes of the poor economic situation, a lack of investment from Europe and the world. We have to admit it to ourselves once and tell the truth, only so and with these grounds can we start a country that says the state economy, or the economy as a whole, we can start to recover. We can't tell any more stories and this and that. And in order not to be misunderstood, I allow someone to be a friend of a worker like me, but no one can love a worker more than I do if I'm a worker myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41948	Thank you very much. Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41949	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Marasovic, it is not the law for the situation and in some way attracts capital in Croatia. the wrong burden is the wrong economic policy. There is a set of other guilts, and in the last place we can talk about the Labour Act and the problem of workers. Workers in Croatia are not particularly paid, workers in Croatia can see from experience very easily found at the Employment Service and remain unemployed, but why is it a question of why capital? No, because of the Labour Act, it is certainly not the reason and obstacle for the capital to come to Croatia. There are a lot of other problems, and this is a question of non-transparentity, it is a question of not creating competition in a way to dissipate the economy and attract foreign capital to come to Croatia, and at least it is the workers and the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41950	Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41951	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you were talking about one very important moment, which is the need for a day's rest, and in that part, it's certainly important because if there's not enough rest, work injuries and consequential illness are possible. And when you get sick, then you know in that part who's under the greatest care and control, and these are doctors, family doctors. Here's a short time ago we had a stewardess case when they were on sick leave and immediately the same time of the inspection, the doctor's control. These doctors must have had stress and some pressure, too. And I ask who's protecting them? What's their protection at work? And we need to touch another very important moment, protection at work. Well, we in Europe have almost the largest number of people with disabilities, and if we add this social uncertainty to which workers are exposed every day, it is a disease and a disease that eventually goes back to the doctor and it opens up the disease. And then who's under pressure? That doctor who has to keep the disease rate in certain frames, if he does not hold it again, follows the penalty. So it's a vicious circle that really is harmful mainly to the worker but also to the doctor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41952	Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41953	I completely agree with my colleague Milinkovic, is a very important protection at work and the conditions in which workers work. They are also the result of the situation where Croatian workers are found to be largely on sick leave, that they are largely going into disability pensions in early retirement because they have been trained in their workplace because certain legal conditions have not been respected and have not been created the conditions for them to work in normal conditions but in many cases they have to keep quiet, trypits, work past that safety that is prescribed and which should be applied to them and clearly that because of that and we have this situation that we are a sick nation, that a lot of workers on sick leave without their own guilt, but because they are then called on to use false sick leave and eventually they will turn out to be guilty because they are on sick leave, and not because someone else has afforded it to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41954	Thank you very much. HDZ Club and Honorable Representative Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41955	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with an associate. So we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act. It should be recalled, firstly, as the minister said, that the Labour Act is a legal framework which regulates relations in the labour market, mutual obligations and responsibilities of the employer and the employer but also has a significant impact on the degree of competitiveness of the Croatian economy and society as a whole. How important it is for the protection of workers' rights, of course, that law has so much importance for employers. Because it either significantly or improves or limits the flexibility of the labour market and the freedom of entrepreneurship itself. And it should be reminded here that the assessment of all relevant analyses is that our Labour Act is one of the most rigid in the Member States of the European Union. Although the requirements for changing and modernising regulation governing the labour market are constantly present by both the economy and the trade unions and the professional public, in this year and a half, nothing is actually happening in this area. Today, we have on the table a set of amendments and additions to the Labour Act that is of no importance and cannot possibly be considered any reform step. Therefore, it is no wonder that the social partners also agreed on changes that essentially neither harm nor benefit any interested party. But, of course, it should be commended that this is one of the few laws or processes in which active social partners participated. Namely, here is what kind of social dialogue is present over the past year and a half we have been witnessing both by the unions and by the employers that almost no law has been adequately and correctly discussed on the Economic and Social Council. But these all the important things that should be arranged in the Labour Act are more or less, more or less the same. From this, while the Ministry and the Government are dealing with cosmetics, the Croatian economy is inexhaustibly sinking. Unfortunately, all macroeconomic data are also talking about it. Well, maybe it's time we remembered again after a while what it actually looks like. So, in 2012, we ended up with a 2% gross domestic product drop. The physical volume of industrial production fell by more than 5.5%, real turnover in the retail trade fell by more than 4%, all compared to 2011. However, unfortunately prices have increased by more than 3.5%. The number of unemployed rose by more than 6.5%, and so we welcomed the end of 2012 with an almost 19% registered unemployment rate. But unfortunately, the end of the bad news was not the same trend in 2013, but unfortunately compared to 2012. 1.5% decline in gross social product compared to first quarter 2012. Let's sum up how much this relates to an earlier year. Traffic in stores continues to fall by more than 4.5%. The further decline in exports with a terrible rate of more than 8%, with 7.5% falling industrial, industrial exports of more than 21% of agricultural products. It is not surprising, therefore, that in 2012, we ended up with a record 324 thousand 324 unemployed compared to 305 in 2011. Unfortunately, it's not the end of bad news either. We remember the numbers of 375 thousand unemployed, but here we are already in front of the full tourist season, at least 6 months should be or at least the beginning of this full tourist season, we have today at 324 thousand unemployed, so almost the same as the end of 2012. That never happened. Here were 287 thousand unemployed in 2011 at the office. This is worth repeating, of course, not because of the inability and self-analysis of this government's work, but all the while we argue that the direction in which this government is driving is unfortunately the wrong direction. What is even more dramatic, despite the fact that the minister of the public often says that they are more employed than ever. Our rate of active population has dropped below 50% on the labour market. The end of 2012 was 50.7%. So it is at least all countries across the European Union. So from that Greece and everyone else. So we are more than half of the active population unemployed, or not in the process of work. And those trends continue. All this, of course, also leads to a real fall in wages more by 3%, etc., etc. There's no end to bad news and there's no indication, of course, that anything positive is happening. And now despite all these catastrophic indicators and trends, the government continues to drive in the old, unfortunately in the wrong direction. And these changes look like nothing's happening, that our unemployment is falling, our economy is growing, and the government has all the time in the world. And so the minister says, therefore, that these amendments do not solve anything important, problems are not solved, but it is good to come from time to time with some changes and additions to the law and thus create the impression that something is actually done. You'd say the ship's sinking and the orchestra's playing. And here's what's worth one more time and see what's actually changing this bill. Therefore, the most important proposed changes relate to the change in the labour contract, many have already talked about it at a certain time, trial work, extra workers' care programme, and there are also minor changes in the provisions on working time and holidays and the agency for temporary employment, and here is the finally announced abolition of the workbook issue. Provisions on co-decision at European level are also amended, and criminal provisions are amended accordingly, in accordance with the changes. As regards the Agency for Temporary Employment, according to the draft law, it is possible for agencies to also carry out business activities... for employment which has not been allowed so far but for the Agency to deal exclusively with temporary employment. We keep this correct change, so the activity of the agencies themselves is expanding, we will have a higher offer of these institutions that will deal with employment and labour market relations. It's good that it's also stressed, although I don't know if it happened in practice, that the employee doesn't pay the agency any tariff in that relationship. It's a good thing that, if necessary, it's already explicitly in the law itself. As regards the daily vacation, so according to the applicant, and because of the observation that the activities of agriculture, tourism and catering have been the subject of a problem in the organisation of work that requires the work of workers on two occasions during the day, and because of the restrictions that were so far 10 hours of work the truth could not be organised in some activities in a quality way. And I also think that this change is useful and it's good that both trade unions and employers agreed on it. Why it was necessary to change the work itself over time, so it remains a 180-hour limit at the annual level, and now instead of 32 hours a month we have 8 hours a week, but if in some circumstances it improves the opportunity and the possibility to organise work better and repeat here, social partners agreed, we also keep this change relatively useful. The employers have been instructed that this is the reason why the applicant says that the failure of a simplified job contract to meet during the trial work is one of the main reasons why they were often forced to avoid employment for a specified time and will now be interesting to see whether, now that this provision has been changed, it is proposed that the failures of the trial work be introduced as a special reason in the cancellation of the labour contract, the employer must, of course, cancel the probationary work according to the reasons provided for in Article 107 on the work. Whether it will decrease and whether it is indeed one of the main causes of such a number of contracts at a specified time for first employment. The workbook has already been commented, so all right, if these changes meant something, so other than the changes we have no objection to happening, it's just really important to say why these changes had to happen now if already over the year, so by the end of the year we expect this revolutionary new Labour Act that will solve all the problems of the labour markets. And the contract, probably the biggest change, but also the biggest dilemma that actually means it's just a contract to work for a certain time. Therefore, the first contract may last for a period of more than 3 years, and all those less than 3 years shall not be extended unless this is particularly justified, objectively or not known to be in the law when these new serial contracts are concluded. It is evident that something was the will that the Government had to do there in view of the objections of the primarily trade union party, and employers with this particular working time are not satisfied. There's been some preamble to some provisions that should mean something right now. I believe that it is completely irrelevant and that this change itself does not mean anything to eliminate the actual causes that have been happening and why they usually happen at the time of the first employment contracts at a certain time. Of course, since there are no other mechanisms for flexible labour market relations many reasons are not listed here, there is no time to elaborate a lot on why someone is employed for a certain time. And although many claim particularly on some sides that this is actually a mechanism of exploitation or manipulation of workers, the fundamental reason is that there are not enough quality and flexible or flexible mechanisms for some modern forms of employment as well as those markets of labour, of course in countries with the most successful economy. I believe that these agreements and what follows by the end of the year will find these new, modern, quality mechanisms of entering the labour market as they exist from Denmark, not to say all other countries that have great protection of work, have great flexibility and have the most successful and competitive economies of the world and these experiences should actually be used. We have never been able to speak openly today about what is actually causing the conclusion of so many contracts at a certain time, and the minister said well that yet the largest number of contracts in Croatia is indefinitely. So we have the fact that we are hiring for the first time at a certain time, but at some point, permanent contracts, or contracts at a certain time, become a rule, and that is both a question and an answer. So we have to find the right causes and look for real and quality mechanisms for more flexible integration mechanisms in various forms of people on the labour market. So, we don't see any particular reason why we should be against these changes, we will support it, but we look forward to you with impatience, of course, and all the announcements that are finally here should happen by the end of the year to see this new Labour Act that will be regulated by our market in the best possible way in the interest of workers, but of course and finally in a significant improvement in the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41956	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41957	Dear colleague Popioč, I'm not surprised that you agree with this law because it is essentially neoliberal, so I'm not surprised because that's where SDP and HDZ are complemented. You said that the Croatian economy is sinking which is a fact and you have seen it well and it is not hard to see it well. But that's probably why the sinking isn't just the government's fault, part of the guilt is on the owners, the managers, the owners of the companies that got the gift because they were close to the government, especially in the '90s. But today they have no knowledge of the Lords, and they have no power over them. You were alluding to the Titanic, but the captain of that ship when the ship hit the iceberg was the head of your party. So, if you're alluding to the Titanic now this Titanic needs to be saved by another party. However, this other party does not save in the right way. The only rescue you see in your debate was how, to support the situation and put as much burden as possible on the backs of the workers, so you talked about the modernity of employment. The facts speak at the level of the economy of Europe, the US, the world and Croatia that workers were never more insecure, and there was never more profit. Therefore, there is an artificially induced crisis, such as the artificially induced decline in production in Europe, as the gross production was moved to the east. Therefore, profits are accumulated, such as profits and Croatian tycoons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41958	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popič, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41959	Well, I can agree and disagree, that's always the way it is. So it's really okay to agree, but it's natural that we disagree because we're not the same mile from which we come at the end. But, unfortunately, or fortunately, we have employers, businessmen, managers that we have. We're going to have to live with them, obviously, or we're going to have to change them somehow, given that they're not, that they're bad, that they're incompetent, that they're not good. I would say that they are excellent in terms of conditions, given everything that their country creates as an environment in which they have to work to be excellent, to be durable, to be above average and capable of still being able to keep that head above water. And I believe that yet our role here and all governments is to concentrate precisely on how the team not only of course our own, and most of Croatia operates domestic employers' infrastructure and, of course, welcome foreign employers, the best, the best conditions for achieving the best economic results, and then it will be better for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41960	Thank you very much. There are now replicas within the club and respected Ivan Shuker, a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41961	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Popioč, you have well understood that all macroeconomic indicators will not change with this technical amendment to the Labour Act, because it is simply some kind of compromise and employers and employees. But what worries me is how this law will apply to employees, 100,000 employees of Croatian craftsmen. Because the government keeps running away from defining the property of craftsmen. Therefore, since the law proposes that the assets of craftsmen cannot be seized unless they are regulated by a special contract. Therefore, 100,000 per opportunity for employees of craftsmen to apply the provision of this law to them, given that they are subject to the Labour Act. There's no special law. How will they exercise their rights and from which they will be charged, and how will the agency pay their contributions on the basis of which. And the second question that opens up when it comes to craftsmen is, the craftsman is neither management nor employee nor salary. And based on this new proposal, the Law on craftsmanship will have the right to apply for the stock exchange and receive employment compensation. In view of the practical concept of bankruptcy, the Law of Turning does not foresee at all. There could be some kind of liquidation or something. So I'm just interested in the fact that the same government is proposing a law on crafts, like this Labour Act, that tomorrow one of those 100,000 employees and 80 000 Croatian craftsmen will exercise their rights, the fundamental right to pay for health and pension insurance so that they have the right to go to the doctor if they get sick. So, just maybe that the minister or you, given that the thinking of our club is that we will technically support these changes, but apparently these changes do not take into account the legislative changes that will take place above all else regarding the Law of Turning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41962	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41963	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. You've got a good spot on your buddy. So here you can see how certain resolutions within the government itself are coordinated. So it's obvious that here we had a two-day debate last week about the Law of Turning and we saw how the minister reacts to everything that we are and then, here's what you mentioned today and how it refers to all of that. So his basic concern was how to arrange or how to deal with the crafts chamber or the head of the crafts chamber. And we suggest, therefore, that this is the first and second reading that this law will be passed, that in the second reading of the Law on Trade solves these problems and that here is Minister Mrsic helping Minister Maras to arrange the relations between all of you as a major flaw here and mentioned that these two laws are mutually harmonised, and all for the purpose of regulating the status of the craftsmen themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41964	New replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41965	Thank you very much, President. Well, dear fellow Drinker, you said in your debate that the ship was sinking, and the orchestra was playing. Well, speaking of ships, I'll look back, given that here we're talking about the Labour Act on Article 120 of the collective surplus workers and the agony passed on May 3rd these days, the shipyard in Rijeka. A simple privatisation company, however, is not clear to the end. Workers are on their feet these days, talking to the Board of Workers on a daily basis, but Article 120 in the third paragraph clearly prescribes collective surpluses of workers, and this is where procedures are conducted in accordance with the third paragraph. However, the administration does not provide concrete answers to workers' demands. They now have 1770 in part of the 3rd May production plant, already before 4 companies (Tibo, Motors and Elevators, Restaurant and STM) with 550 workers moved to AUDIO to their part of the jurisdiction with a safe ending, and this will be the end obviously of these companies. Clearly, the question arises as to why the management in that third May may not want to give the workers systematicisation to know exactly what part of the company will find that surplus of 400 workers because the assumption is that it will go into that manufacturing part of the production plant. Of course it's a burden on that part of people and I'm simply saying it might be too much coincidence or maybe, that's my thinking, is it waiting for this kind of law to end the process then, or what kind of proposal should I go to tell these people that they simply know what awaits them in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41966	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41967	Thank you very much. What do you say to that esteemed colleague? So the problem-solving process here is that 4.5 of the largest shipyards are obviously near the end. So it is not clear exactly what it says and what is all embedded in the restructuring process itself in this way which has changed significantly compared to when we prepared the whole process during the conclusion and the negotiation process. So, when all the restructuring programmes for all the shipyards and 3 May and Brodotrogir and the Queen who, in the meantime, went into bankruptcy and all the Bourza workers at the end and for Brodosplit for 3 May, here we see another 20 days before the end of EU entry, there was some kind of solution that would end, what would actually happen to May 3rd about this combination with the oil company how many people would be? We don't know that. No one saw it, and apparently what you say is different from the previous process where the workers and where union representatives were fully involved in all the points and all the stages of the development and acceptance of the restructuring programme knew more and more of the circumstances. But here's the concern if at this stage, it's still a big stranger to the workers themselves that this whole process will end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41968	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41969	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Popijac, you have presented a number of macroeconomic indicators that depict Croatia's reality over the past year and a half of the work of this government. I would further single out my own doubts when it comes to the projected growth of the Croatian economy by the end of this year. Last year, we adopted a state budget last November on a proposal from the government that envisioned the growth of the Croatian economy, GDP growth for this year at 1.8%. Very soon afterwards, in March of this month, we rebalanced the budget with which we planned GDP growth at 0.7% this year. These days, a number of analysts and financial institutions are talking about a further drop in GDP, which will certainly be negative this year or in this sense come announcements from the government about a new budget rebalancing and perhaps even before the summer break. Meanwhile, the government, part of the union, is skillfully using the Union's representative law when you sign the agreement with one part of the union and it refers to almost all trade unions, signed an agreement that does not reduce employees' salaries in the public sector by the end of the year. Well, now I'm interested and I have a doubt about how this government intends to maintain this agreement and at the same time reduce the expenditure of the state budget by bringing into the Parliament the rebalancing of the state budget. Then what's he gonna cut? Then we will reduce subsidies to farmers, then we want to reduce investments that are more than 50% reduction compared to the 2011 budget, we want to cut pensions, we want to reduce the allocation for health insurance, etc., etc. I don't understand how the government is going to keep a promise signed in agreement with the unions and at the same time rebalance the cost of the state budget expenditure and cut costs?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41970	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41971	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You notice well, therefore, that there is a great gap from announcements, desires, and then ultimately, reality. And every time we start, we're amazed by the worse situation and the worse the hints. So, neither now nor by the end of this year, we can have any hope that something important will change because the preparation remains the same. So nothing important has happened or happened to change trends. Obviously, the government was really counting on the rise in revenue from the budget, they certainly don't happen despite the increased tax press, but we see that it's a growing repertoire of alibis for such a situation, so we recently heard that some twenty billion debts were found, I don't know which government and I don't know of which years, and that's why some new budget rebalancing is going to have to happen. so we hear the force now, since unfortunately neither investments occur nor in the private sector, and apparently nothing from the state can count on it anymore. But every single one and every one of them got caught up in the investment, so it's a waste every day, and we see that there's nothing there. You are indeed right if you want to keep such a stable budget, of course, that it will have to go into further reductions in public sector rights, and that it will physically take place in view of an agreement signed on that we cannot, of course, predict that they probably know who negotiated and which such mechanism and designed, so it is worth waiting, unfortunately, for this whole situation to see what new alibi will be invented by the government for a situation that is unfortunately expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41972	Thank you very much. Before further notice. The 15th session of the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds will be held today on 13 June of this year at 14:00 at Janko Draskovic's Chamber of Directors of the Croatian Parliament and Committee Chairman Dragica Zgrebec. And another deal for us MPs here. The work plan requires that we work without a lunch break. Can we respect that? Thank you very much. It is now up to the Club of Representatives at the Croatian Parliament of the People's Party and the Honorable Representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41973	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with an assistant, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before I go to the HNS Club's metrics, they'll back this bill. They'll support him if this is one of those laws in any case which, by its own content, and also by urgency, binds us to such a thing. It is a law in which an intrinsicity is in line with the amendments that took place in the legal property of the EU or the harmonisation of the Labour Act with the European Regulation No. In 38/2009, he also brings to the field of labour legislation some newspapers that were not present so far in Croatian legislation, as regards the standards and regulations laid down by the European acquis. So, for example. introduces the obligation and certain standards in information and consultation between social partners at transnational level, but also gives a partial answer to some of the questions that have been and have been opened in Croatian labour legislation. This law was passed, as Mr. Minister said as a compromise between employers and trade unions, or between the ministry and trade unions, and of course the law that actually solves the legal framework for resolving relations between the two interested parties and cannot be different. But when I mention trade unions then we must be honest and notice one thing that is present in the Croatian economy in the Croatian labour market and generally in Croatian society, which is to talk about trade unions mainly of public services and public employees. We today, after 22 years of modern Croatian state already and 23, have a situation that actually union organisation is efficient and possible only in the public sector. We have a situation of deep injustice in society that has not been resolved until the end of these amendments and amendments to the law, so I will give an example, this law solves certain specificities of the contract institute for a certain period of time. And fully correctly respects the possibility or need of specific projects which may last 4, 5 or 6 years so that the first contract may take 5 years and after we have a clear completion of the project and economic activity in the case in question the contract ends and ends. However, Croatian politics must have sufficient character to answer one question, which is a question of abuse of contract for a certain time to violate fundamental human rights in this society. Ladies and gentlemen in the field of labour legislation and the positions of workers in Croatia are not all alike, and this is a fundamental constitutional category and everyone is silent about it. Nobody wants to talk about it, nobody wants to talk about the fact that in large companies private especially where women's labour is present because of specific activities. Workers who do not have equal rights to public sector workers. They work workers who can't achieve motherhood because they're employed for a certain period of time. And that's the truth where we all stick our heads in the sand like an owl and nobody's talking about it clearly and there's no answer to that question. No government so far, and I hope this will hasn't found an answer to that question. On the other hand, in the public sector we have fully protected workers, trade unionally organized whatever anyone thinks who in a certain number of cases abuses that good position of theirs. In the public sector, the efficiency of workers rests thoroughly on his personal approach, character, home education, worldview and whether he decided to work or chose to act. (The rest of the phonogram was later recorded.) You are today as an employer and responsible person in the public sector almost so powerless in front of workers who have no intention of turning their sleeves and sweating at their jobs. [[Because of the power failure, part of the phonogram was not recorded.]] And we also do not have clear reward mechanisms for those who work hard and carry on themselves the burden of the functioning of society and system. On the other hand, in the private sector an absolutely unequal position. If one democratic society in one constitutional state cannot ensure the equality of workers and if everyone is silent for more than 20 years, it will be difficult to find a way out of the crisis. A country where such divisions exist has no real perspective or are governed by normal norms and standards. The answer to that question must finally be given by Croatian politics. HNS is a liberal party but not a party that understands liberalism as a framework for such an anomaly in society. And on behalf of the CNS, I appeal to the Resolute Ministry to deal with these real problems. All these newspapers that are listed here in the law are okay, they're fine. Most of them are, of course, subject to the obligation to bring our law in line with the EU acquis in question, which is why we set out in this harmonisation. But we need to find agreements on real issues in the field of labour market relations between employers and workers. We do not belong to a party, nor do I personally belong to people who consider employers to be vampires or exploiters. I was an employer myself, paying my wages. I know a lot of people from employers of small, medium and large who are correct employers, but we also need to find an answer through the amendments to the Labour Law on the issue of proper relations with workers and in the private sector and the question of establishing the fundamental value of a normal constitution in a democratic state, which is that all people have the same chance, equal legal status and equal living and working conditions. We can't allow ladies and gentlemen any more of us as advocates to meet a young woman and to ask how you're answering, I'm not good for the simple reason that I've been working for seven years, I can't become a mother, and I can't become a mother, because at the moment this is my sixth straight contract at a certain time, the moment I'm pregnant, I'm going to lose my job. It's a fundamental question of the Labour Act that needs to be solved. And it is not a question of harmonisation with EU practice, but a question for us in the Croatian Parliament for all Croatian representatives and for the overall Croatian policy. The HNS Club will support this law, but the HNS Club is looking for a future, and that's a soon-to-be answer to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41974	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First up, she's a colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41975	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague, Baranovic, and I am pleased that you have raised this issue of women and their position on the labour market because that is what this is about. Unfortunately, here we are today in the 21st century, facing this painful fact that we are reluctant to talk about, and it is true that we are obviously not able to resolve this issue until the end and end not only discrimination but demeaning but the fact that with all that you've been talking about is today the fact that women in most cases are less paid for the same job, and then also that women in most cases have fewer pensions than men who have done the same job. The fact is that many women still have to answer the question is not often spoken about, and many of them do not want to talk about it in public for known reasons. If she talks about one employer who's ever gonna take her to work. So the question is whether you are married, if you have children, if you want to have children, if you want to have more children and the fact that many women today at the 21st century when they remain pregnant hide pregnancy from employers and hide pregnancy of course from their colleagues and colleagues at work. This is something that we must give all together through the Labour Act and through all other laws that not only touch the position of women and men in the labour market but also all others who ultimately speak of fundamental human rights, and one of the fundamental human rights is certainly the right to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41976	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41977	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Kosor, I'm glad you agree and I expected such a replica from you personally. But what I would like to point out at this time is how and how to initiate the process of resolving these anomalies in society concerns the union organisation of workers in the private sector and the fact that we did not build in Croatian legislation a clear mechanism for protecting workers from employers who prevent and sanction trade union organisation in their companies. I stress, I highly appreciate employers, I come from their ranks although I was a small employer, but I find it unacceptable to work in such a way and that this is how the social scene in Croatia works. What should be done is through the Labour and Sublaw Act as well as laws concerning this matter, at least indirectly ensure the protection of employers from non-employees, but also to ensure the protection of workers from employers who violate their fundamental human labour and civil rights. We still haven't found a way to sanction an employer who realistically prevents union organisation and organised defence of labour rights in his company. And there's a front of the big systems. Ladies and gentlemen of plutocracy is not a democracy. She's something else entirely. And the fact is, this society, this society has been turning its head for years and decades from problems that concern the most powerful and strongest. As such a society, it's hard to find perspective, whether numbers like this or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41978	Next replica Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41979	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's Agent Baranovic and I, in my debate, wanted to talk about this division in our society. That's what gets us all together, especially me. This division between the public sector and the real sector is not only obvious but is no longer tolerable to say so. Well, in this answer to this replica you just said you mentioned unions. Well, I think one of the key wheels in solving this problem is the union. And it's this little union scene in our country that's not good. And perhaps we now and too much hope in the new Law which, on work, has been announced by the Minister of Labour. In doing so, I think we should withdraw and perhaps before agreeing and a public debate over the new law is particularly important, so to speak of the union. We are probably all aware, we will agree that a good union, a good collective contract is not only protection and assistance to workers but is protection, above all, protection and assistance to the employer. So I don't know how heretic the idea of what would be to disband all the unions, to introduce a habitual moratorium. And until it forms the same in the real sector, and after six months it can, then please go to the public sector as well. Ladies and gentlemen, let's think about it. Because we, it's almost time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41980	Answer to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41981	You, Mr. Baranovic, have touched on one topic that we have touched in various discussions, it is the problem of women who have contracts on certain ones and because of their pregnancy, these contracts are no longer extended. And it is indeed a common practice that happens in the Republic of Croatia. That is one deviation, but I'm not sure whether, I think, we in the legislation have and that we have, however, this legislation is not being implemented. And it's not anymore, I think the law makes it difficult for us to handle anything, but we should start implementing what is actually written in the laws and there are certain restrictive provisions where such phenomena could be sanctioned. However, this is not in practice implemented. And this, as legislators, should be asked why it is not implemented, why labour inspections actually work poorly and why in fact most people who find themselves in the mob, and especially women don't even report that mobing, but more or less of them give up practically and retreat before the employer. And not just a private employer. Thus, such events occur both in the public employer and in the state and in the county, both at the health home and at the hospital and at school and in public institutions. Therefore, such phenomena are not merely the privilege of private employers. So mobbing over women and especially women when they become pregnant is a very common phenomenon in the public sector. And it is not the consequence of any such or such legislation but is the consequence of the non-trust of Croatian citizens in this legislation and in this rule of law. Because most women and people who are actually faced with a certain form of violence or mobbing actually retreat before that employer believing in fact that only in any form of mourning will it not go well but it will only cause trouble to their necks. And that is our responsibility. And those messages that I've been saying that we're sending as a society, that's what they're actually confirming to people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41982	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41983	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Djurovic, I disagree with you in this section where you say the same situation is in the public and private sectors. There are clearly legally guaranteed rights in the public sector. And in the public sector, a young woman has a chance to be a mother and get back to work. In the private sector, a young woman has a minimal hypothetical chance of getting pregnant and getting back to work. And that's the truth of this society that's been kept silent for more than 20 years. I can agree with you that certain segments of society, inspection, institutions that have an obligation to monitor and enforce laws do not work. For a very simple reason, let's ask when we read all the laws of different, which cover different topics in how many cases we have clearly prescribed conjectures. For the answer to... the institutions of the Croatian state that do not work quality, efficient their business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Starting with the law concerning the functioning of local self-government, individual ministries, agencies, anyone. What conjectures even local self-government leaders have if they do not comply with certain legal provisions that are related to the functioning of local self-government. What do the directors of inspection services have that do not do their job in a quality way? Read some of the laws and find me those conjectures. They're gone. Because politics protects itself without character unprincipledly as a sacred cow in India. We must finally have the same meter for ourselves and for those people we prescribe the laws, the conditions under which we live. When we do that, it won't be a problem either with the inspection or the functioning of society. And the fact is that there is a clear difference in the position between young women working in the public sector and young women working in the private sector. Workers in general who work in the public sector and workers in general who work in the private sector. Until we reach a balance between these two categories, we will not have a perspective economy or an orderly society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41984	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative of Jadranka Kosor and HGS, a colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41985	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with the associate. Our club will support these amendments and additions to the law. First of all, because of the fact that the law is in line with the directives of the European Union. Of course it's something necessary, it's important, it's necessary, it's something we have to do. It is precisely because it is necessary and we have to do this because we become a member of the European Union on 1 July. And the directives were also known at the beginning of this year, of course to point out why this had not been done before. These amendments and additions to the Law shall take effect 8 days after the publication in the National Journal. See what date it is today, so when the law is passed, when it is published in the National Journal, it will practically enter into force immediately before entering the European Union. It is a fact that a legislator must make sure that all those to whom the law applies are familiar and that they can certainly adapt and that they can be prepared in the implementation of that law. So we think that with these changes and additions it could have gone before, but that's less important now. The fact that the law is before us. And of course this is an opportunity to remind myself that we may be some of the problems that this government is facing today, which we still face today in the economy when we're writing down 323 thousand, slightly more unemployed, right now in the country, that perhaps some of the problems could have been at least a little smaller or lighter that we changed the Labour Act in 2010 when then the Government... At that time, the Ministry of Economy as a proposer in the Government, I would say, ultimately, small from this perspective, almost minor amendments to the Labour Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which were, above all, messages to all of us, messages to us and to politics but above all messages to both employers and employees of citizens and citizens that we can't have collective agreements the same and the same and that's the same thing that should always be said when GDP falls 6% or 5% and when GDP grows 5% or 6%. So, I repeat, there was one small change, especially when you've been looking from a distance from now on for 2, 3 years. However, the amendment to the law reminds me of some to launch a petition to organise a referendum. Now we're facing one of those initiatives again, so I think it's time to talk about it. As it turns out, you all know. More than 700 thousand signatures have been collected. What was, however, the fact that we faced daily, for example, watching television that we listened to many of our people who signed the petition and bitterly said that we signed a petition, not give our pensions, we don't give our rights. So one part of the people was not, and I argue, and today responsibly sufficiently informed that the government actually wants to amend and supplement the law. Of course, even then the opposition signed a petition, nothing was said at that time in the Labour Law should be changed. As you can see, some of the jobs we were supposed to do a few years ago we're going to have to do today and what wasn't done yesterday must be done today, but time is wasting, space is wasting and potential is lost. So since the minister announced the new Labour Act which I welcome, I would also like to remind you that the past government has signed an agreement with the trade unions on the new Labour Act. I think by making a new Labour Act, Mr. Secretary could have taken off last year. It's something that's important and necessary. I appeal that this new law be a law that will indeed open a wide public debate so that indeed all those who wish and who have what to say can say it within a reasonable time. These changes certainly must go in regular procedure and here we look forward to the new Labour Act coming before us because it should be when it is adopted, and this will already be at the moment when Croatia will be the 28th member, one of those fundamental laws relating to human rights, but also that will reflect and whose provisions will reflect on the Croatian economy. And I believe that it will also be brought into consensus, first of all, with those who are key and most important, I will use the word players, which is workers, or trade unions, so workers through unions and union centres and on the other hand employers because we are faced with the fact that many speak and open the topic of social dialogue today in Croatia. I am therefore very pleased that the minister said that this law, i.e. amendments and additions, was adopted in a consensus between the social partners, so government, unions and employers, but the issue I hear about daily remains concerning the work of the Economic and Social Council. So some say the Economic and Social Council doesn't meet, if that's not good. The Economic and Social Council, where the government also sits, representatives of the government and trade unions and employers, is the only place to agree, agree and make decisions. So I would recommend that the start of any debate on the Labour Act be taken from the Economic and Social Council, that it should not be skipped in any way. Today, there were many words in the debate and with full right of course about privatising with reflections of past times, reminders of some bad, tragic, difficult experiences but of course also of good experiences. However, we are facing these problems today, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just reminding myself, in this debate, I'm not going to spread to these problems not identified by the workers, but doctors, for example, about the cases in Brodosplit, so the sending of districts, letters, about the sickness of the workers of Brodosplit. And that is something that should also be taken into account when we are discussing amendments and additions to the Labour Act, So there are still a lot of open questions, a colleague Baranovic opened one. I agree, women employees in I would say to state services as it is said, of course I can achieve motherhood without any problem but in the private sector it is much, much harder and it is the task not only of the Government but of the Croatian Parliament to talk about it publicly. But I think we need to take a step further, that we need a finger, that's not very polite, but sometimes we need to put our finger on and show and say the name and last name we're talking about. In fact, some people do not understand a different language than when it is shown by the finger and when it is literally called. So the minister finally mentioned and said that I quote a law that is legible and simple and understandable to everyone. Speaking of these amendments and additions, I would add that first and foremost, it is important for the law to be implemented this way and to help solve at least some of the problems that we are facing today. The situation is really difficult, especially when we put a difficult economic situation in the context that we will become a member of the European Union and that, of course, some other rules begin to apply, and that everything we do through budgetary adoption, fiscal responsibility, will be absolutely measured in one completely different way, which requires both additional responsibility and further more work for which we should of course have decided long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41986	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41987	Dear counterpart Kosor, you said the Labour Act was to be amended in 2010, and then what exactly was being changed was opposed by those who are not making changes at the expense of workers today. However, your thesis does not mean that you were right in 2010 or that Milanovic's government is right today. I think Milanovic was right in 2010 and did the right thing. However, after receiving the citizens' trust and most of those who saw his signature and honored him in the elections, he then took down the social democratic skin and put on a neoliberal rug. And now you're right to do what you wanted. So, you started the job, you backed up, but the SDP's gonna end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41988	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41989	Thank you, dear colleague Vuksic. Of course we wouldn't have proposed, and then I wouldn't have signed some law of amendment and law supplementation if I thought we were wrong. So we thought we were right, that it was something that could make things easier that was difficult. And as I said earlier, my position is personal as far as collective agreements are concerned. So we are also talking about state and public services, but we are also talking about the private sector. So they can't be the same collective agreements when GDP is growing and when it's falling and when it's hard and it's great. That's the facts. And that's how it is shown, of course, the problems this government had with the unions of state and public services when it tried simply to cut some rights. So it certainly makes sense and human encounters great resistance. But when the government is an employer, and when money for wages, for Christmases, for regress, etc., for those famous shoes that my government abolished. So, when the talks start about it, it's normal and human that no one wants his rights to be less. That's one side. And the other side is reality. We didn't budge. We were of course aware that more than 700,000 signatures that were collected should be respected, and by calling the referendum we finally agreed with the union centres. And if you remember, we tied it up in our agreement to call a referendum on Croatia's entry into the EU, and then it also gave up. So, in a political sense, what you don't do today will certainly catch up to you tomorrow only tomorrow will it probably be something more difficult and it has proved here now and in the term of office of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41990	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41991	Comrade Kosor, in your debate, you reminded of the collection of signatures for the referendum on amendments to the Labour Act that our party then also supported not only but actively participated in the collection of these signatures, but you also mentioned today's ruling coalition. This was the area of the topic of Chapter III. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia – Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms Articles 55, 6 and 57. And now what's dangerous? Today, the ruling SDP argues that the issues of Chapter III are being raised. The Constitution cannot decide on a referendum, and the component of Chapter III may decide on a referendum. The constitution is both labour, social, pension and health rights. So, in 2010, when they signed the request for a referendum, they interpreted it as a matter of referendum decision. Today they claim that all of Chapter III. The Constitution is part of a Constitution that cannot be decided in a referendum. And I am glad that you mentioned an agreement signed by your government to the unions in which it was agreed, and this new government did not respect the agreement, that on the day of the referendum on Croatia's accession to the EU, a referendum on the reduction of the number of signatures necessary for the collection of the citizens' initiative will be held on the date of the request for a referendum. So the definition in this agreement that this government refused to implement after the takeover of power is around.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41992	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41993	It's exactly what you said. This fundamental rights that you are talking about and that we are talking about today in the context of this announcement of a new referendum are, in fact, concentrated in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where social justice is mentioned. Surely, those are the highest values. My opinion is about the referendum that's ahead of us. In any event, if it is established that the question which the signatories of the referendum request is considered relevant, it shall be deemed to be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, of course, that the referendum must be called. There is no doubt, of course, if the issue is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. These are also fundamental rights. Yes, we signed that contract. I think it would be good to make it a practice for what, especially in such sensitive issues, so with social partners when one government signs an agreement on something that has to be done and what social partners are looking for and when we agree that, because every government is democratically elected, every government is a people, every government is Croatia, every government is ours. We can get along with her or not. But these fundamental obligations that are signed here with the social partners should be respected, because ultimately here is the previous government agreed, finally done a job for the EU and the next step should be to call a referendum. Of course this government called it in. Thus, it was logical to sign up in accordance with this agreement, i.e. the agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41994	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41995	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleague Kosor. I will use the replica not to disagree with you but to make certain things potent because I would say that here the Labour Act can have a direct impact and direct importance on the demographic image of the Republic of Croatia. I'd say here one of the cases I've been informed of is that a young lady at the age of 22, when her employer found out that she was pregnant the moment the labor contract was terminated. And I think the legislator should definitely have special treatment for pregnant women in the new law. Because if we look at the demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia and natural growth back in the last 10 years from 2001 to 2011 it is evident that every year natural growth is lower by 10 to 12 thousand people. And with one quality legal solution would be safety towards those young women who plan to create a family and certainly that the Republic of Croatia would have a better quality picture of the natural origin of the population. And that is why I would like to appeal to you also to propose that the new Labour Act be specifically addressed to the issue of pregnant women and women, especially pregnant women who are on contracted employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41996	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41997	Thank you very much. I agree with you, namely the question of pregnant women, women who are breast-feeding, etc. is treated I would say and it is regulated by the current Labour Act, but obviously that we are not effective, that we do not have the results we would like. Surely the new Labour Act should be one of those stones in the mosaic that we call the national population policy of it long ago we have accepted here in Parliament then it is accepted as I remember it unanimously and should be valid and should be continuously implemented at the time of all governments, that it should be upgraded if necessary, and I think it is, that it should always be brought into line with real life. It's exactly what you're saying, and I think the whole problem is population, so I'd almost say disaster outside the agenda. This is how much we will be, and demographics say if this trend continues in Croatia in 50 years, it's certainly a million less, it's a terrible tragedy for Croatia because population policy is a first-rate political issue, it should be, it's a strategic issue, it's an economic issue because it's ultimately a circle that closes actually an economic issue. And if a woman is experiencing what you have stated, and I know hundreds of such cases personally, then of course we have a big problem. And that is why I believe that, with the new Labour Act, we will put even stronger foundations in the protection of the family and certainly in the protection of motherhood. It is not a social issue, and it is not a woman's question to deal with women, and I am very glad that here are two colleagues today in this debate to point out this as a first-class political issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41998	We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u41999	Facilitate dismissal in order to facilitate employment, this mantra in Croatia has been repeated for several years, especially in the last few months and is trying to convince all of us that, by the very act of facilitating the layoff of workers, we will create an air conditioning that these same or some other workers today are unemployed or are more easily employed. Of course, that is not true because this mantra has been taken over from those countries and systems that have not only stood up for the relief of layoffs but has far more fully regulated the labour market and strengthened the role of the state in the labour market. These same people still don't understand the difference, and that's a world-class issue between job security, which is a matter of history, and security of the right to work. Is there, I ask them all who repeat this mantra, work for a man or is there a man for work? Is man created to work and bring profit or work to someone? And the security of the right to work is not only a question of our constitutional arrangement and determination but also the essence of Christian science on human rights. And all those who do not understand and believe that only by facilitating layoffs benefit employers and to God’s ability to develop society are wrong. The investment climate in Croatia, after research and publication of all results, is not bad because of workers, but firstly points out the frequent change in the tax system, so the instability of the tax system, the price and availability of capital, the red tape in decision making, corruption and only in fifth place did foreign investors mention the Labour Act. And how can we speak in a country where 525 thousand employees, which is 55% receive a salary net of up to 5.000 kuna, is that, that these workers and this labour market are the cause of non-investment? Come on, take the official data, look at the amount of rights that workers actually exercise and in a material sense, so you will see that the share of salaries or rights of workers in the distribution of gross social product from 52.4 fell to 47%. What are we talking about? Two proposals to the Minister or two warnings, this bill opens a new Pandora's box. I'm not saying this for political reasons right now, I'm saying it for warnings. In fact, non-determined contracts in Croatia only exist in the public and state sectors in private is an exception. The employment and rental agencies will be a new way to avoid the new Pandora's box, how that part of the Labour Act will also be avoided and the cancellation deadlines, the surplus management programmes and the role of the Employment Office in all this. In fact, Article 27 states that no provisions on the disposal of surpluses or cancellations apply to employees of those agencies. There are no collective agreements or ever will be, there are no unions or there will ever be them, there are no extra programs or there will ever be them, there will be no severances, they have lower wages. If they work in the same place as that employee who is in a working relationship with the employer or this one through the agency have the same salaries for the same jobs we all know, but the inspection can't determine that. The vacation days due to the inability to accumulate work experience are far less, the credit ability of these employees, whatever you call them, is flat zero, resulting in the fact that they can neither get to the apartment nor dare to make a marriage, nor give birth to children because they are rented workers for a certain unknown time. And a growing number of employers instead of hiring people will use the services of these agencies. As dangerous as it may be, we use the experiences of those countries that began to introduce such practices 15 years ago, and now they give up because they realized what they had done to themselves. But what's interesting is that this particular area of allowing such agencies to exist that are nothing more than to hire a man, they hire a man, and what's the subject of the regulatory Convention No. 181 International Labour Organisations, Croatia does not want to ratify and has not ratified. Why are we running away from the ratification of this convention which applies to this particular area and which has quite rigorously laid down the conditions under which conditions under national legislation can be allowed to set up teams and such agencies not only for the territory of that country but for borrowing and renting, listen to how terrible it sounds, renting workers. Ministers, the recommendation to the Government to propose ratification of Convention 181 of the International Labour Organisation to take over all the rights and obligations of the state in that area. Those who talk about the regulated labour market and call on those models forget that the regulated labour market is not only a provision on how to fire but in these labour markets it is unimaginable that someone does not get paid, that it is unimaginable that the employer does not pay a contribution to the worker on that regulated labour market, that it is unimaginable that the working dispute in the court takes 16 years. So when you call on these labour markets, alluding to Scandinavia, Germany, Austria and other EU Member States, continue to tell the story of their labour market, especially you who were ministers or leaders of the Croatian Employers' Association, where your colleagues from Germany, Austria have educated you as much as it is important for employers to remove unfair competition precisely those who use workers to come from dumping prices to the market and destroy and destroy those who want to do business in order. And finally next, the Croatian Employment Service is his role in prevention. They send people to employers who know they've been breaking laws for years, not paying their salaries, not giving them vacations, simply changing every month, two employees. I've also received a written reply from both the Minister and the Employment Office that the staff of the Bureau send a woman to a factory where she works for 12 hours on a sewing machine, says we warn them not to pay the wages there. We warn them that we send them to an employer who doesn't pay his wages, but if she refuses, we won't tell her to delete her from unemployment records. 10 women I know who have been deleted because they refused to work like that but I accept the fact that what you ministers wrote is true. But you know what the problem is, on the list of companies that are being given incentives from an active employment policy measure and sending those 1600 kunas to work for them are also such companies, such companies. So compare that data, answer the question of how it is possible for employers your Employment Service knows that for years they have been breaking workers' rights given incentives to hire, save jobs, gain job experience and public works.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42000	Thank you. Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42001	My dear colleague, Lesar, you spoke about the rental agencies. Remember, we know this from history, we're not old enough to see this with our own eyes, the crisis of the '30s, and when the high-boiled gentleman came in and he read the names of the factory and those workers got the job that day. We're close to hiring daily. Not for a certain time for a few months, but we'll tell that day you and those workers get a job. Some colleagues used to say that the Labour Act is one of the basic laws as you know it. However, it is increasingly becoming the basis for reducing human rights. To reduce basic fundamental freedoms. For a man is not free; that is what you have spoken of, if he does not work, and if he cannot live on his wages. Because the assumption is that the worker is working so that he can secure his own existence and his family. However, the existence of workers, the existence of a family, is almost no longer spoken. Not that way. So let's remind ourselves of what Barack Obama seemed to me two, three months ago, a few months ago in Congress, every day as a nation, we need to ask ourselves three questions. How to create more jobs in our country, how to get our people the skills they need to do work on these jobs. And how to ensure the most important thing is that hard work leads a man's life of dignity. About the dignity of man, the dignity of workers today this government is not talking about. It does not create a prerequisite for a man who lives, who works so that he can live from his work. So that it can cover the basic costs and that it can educate its children, we know how minimal it is, we know that even the average Croatian salary does not reconcile the basic union basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42002	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42003	You've opened up one rhetorical question about what a man is made for, whether a man is created for work or for work for man. If that's what I'm allowed to relate to, I think a man is made for love. Because at the center of God's creation called man's love does not work. The work is one variable added to man, works and ants, works and bees, works all of God's creatures, and works man. But I don't think that's the central axis of man's existence. So it seemed to me that maybe a little overly binding actually the man himself and the work. He's not just, he's not just a character of man or just a value that can only be added to a man when it comes to work. But something now, something else now. When you talked about agencies that were actually introduced by multinationals when they came to Croatia connected with some agencies, they re-painted that model with those so-called. the wild markets of Western capitalism. I would very much agree with you because it is a very dangerous area that really brings into a very uneven position some of the people who work in the Republic of Croatia. This practice has not yet taken such a swing and is still limited to a number of people who work in several large systems but take a swing and could happen in years that come unless we are serious enough and protect in time the dignity of people who now work so that in a time when not a few thousand come but a few tens or hundreds of thousands of people who work find themselves in a situation that actually the rental workforce is employed by some agencies. And I think that with a few amendments to the articles very easily, the Labour Act, the story and those agents of the worker could put an ad act on me. And there we would certainly support such solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42004	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42005	A colleague Đurovic, she asked whether there was work for a man, or a man for work, was quoted from the encyclics of the late St. Father of John Paul II. The encyclica is called "Laborem Exercens-worked man." And he came from the fact that the Christian teaching must come from the fact that there is no man to work, but the work exists for the sake of man to survive and feed himself and his family. As for the agency, you're right. They entered Croatia on the wings of large corporations. But you know what is even more tragic for you to serve these agencies and rent workers benefiting from the state of Croatia. Especially state-owned public enterprises. Therefore, it is not only a problem in the private market, in private employers, but the state, especially in public enterprises, is one of the biggest users of the hired workforce. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42006	And Boris Kovacic, the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42007	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here's a few sentences on today's subject. Although labour law is one of the youngest branches of law that has been developed by creation and creation, it is better said, perhaps by cutting the working class, of course primarily in England and France. So it's been there since the time of the first legal acts like the protection of workers' legislation from England, and it's then written to actually calm down workers, calm down in quotes. So over here, let's also remind ourselves of the international organisation of work that was, of course, still established there in the far 919th of Paris, we know that it is now an important organization of importance for the United Nations based in Geneva. And in this context, it may also be good to remember today the Law on the Protection of Workers, which was also valid at the premises of our country, although within another country and it has been passed here, almost coincidentally on June 4, away from 922, so almost 100 years ago, although before that it has become a certain regulation, i.e. the Law on Labour Inspection, etc., etc. So here to this day, this was kind of a creamworth for me to confirm to myself that she did not stop the need for a normative alignment of labour rights, primarily for the protection of employees' rights, or workers' rights, but also for a clear definition of the employer's position. No matter what the working conditions, as well as the termology used in the field of labour law 20, 30, 50 or 100 years ago, have changed greatly, quite understandablely, anyways who speaks more of the working class. But all of this does not diminish the need to adopt a new legal reading that is just here today at the debate and which I pray is a nice conceptually better solution than we have so far. This is, among other things, particularly highlighted at the meeting of the parent committee. When we talk about this need, it is very current, of course we are talking about the need for a new legal act, the law, I especially stress that we take into account so-called. the real sector. Here I am also referring to my replica, related to this division, the large division in our society that he opened today in his debate and MP Baranovic where in most of the work rights of employees, I am talking about the real sector, the private sector, the least said these labour rights lag behind, not to use the harder word for the public sector. I'm particularly interested in this area. It is precisely this importance of reduced and unspecified rights of workers that raises the question of where the trade unions are, so we return to those issues and problems expressed in replicas, and I am particularly interested in what the effects of this law will be, and every future one when we talk about the new Labour Act. I am currently interested in these effects on this real sector, meaning the sector we were talking about that these rights are reduced and are not protected by any union organisation or collective agreements where self-will is ruled, etc. As far as this bill is concerned, I'm going to look at two aspects, firstly related to the Institute of Previous Verification and secondly, something related to the contract of employment for a certain period of time. In particular, Article 6(3) of this proposal provides for a quote: the dissatisfaction of probationary workers constitutes a particularly justified reason for the cancellation of the labour contract. There's been a lot of debate here today, and opinions have been shared. I, above all, read this provision as an aid and also as a stimulant to employers to make it easier to decide on new employment, yet it is a new courage. I also know some examples from practice, but that also creates a new opportunity for employees. It has already been said here today in the debate that a good worker who will fire him is being held back. Now we have in place that employers are having a hard time deciding on new jobs, opening new jobs, and today the workplace is just holy. This is still an opportunity to make it easier to decide, and it is also an opportunity for a good worker to prove himself. True, the fact that I don't quote MP Marasovic when he talks about the unemployed, so we don't have to worry about the unemployed much. They are people, too, and we need to worry about legal provisions and respect for the law and all other regulations regarding it. But we need to take care of those husbands and women of Croatia who are very staffed, capable and eager to work and want to do their working relationship fairly. Well, here's one chance, though, it's not enough, but it is, it's a constant shift. I also look through this aspect of previous verification, i.e. through this trial work, and yet we also give opportunities to employers, but also an opportunity for new employment, and then to prove workers to stay in that workplace. As far as Article 10 is concerned. In fact, the labour law has been completely changed and regardless of the great improvement in the conclusion of a work contract at a certain time offered in this text of the law, of course I am not entirely sure that we will be able to prevent abuses in the use of this form of employment. Namely, there are employers who do not have a limited duration of the work contract, not only what is proposed in the text of the law that it can last until the end of a given job, etc. Because they are just using this continuous employment please nicely, they in the same or almost similar jobs constantly hire new workers in this way young, healthy, etc., etc., suitable for them, why not. That's what's happening on the other side again and the unfair game on the labour market. Unfortunately, such examples are numerous, I could name them, they just exist, they're around us. Just take an example of a kindergarten, for example, but not just a kindergarten. You have one occipital environment and you have new employers who then hire healthy, young workforce and constantly change it after three years or even after a shorter period. And in this way they are in fact unfair competition with the rest of the employers on that labour market regardless of their property and regardless of their ownership structure. So, I'm also talking about it, but right now it's a good teaming to pass a law like this since the minister announced that a new law has been passed since autumn. And I think by then the practice will show us, so maybe here's the flaw, maybe this kind of legal solution. We'll have both chambers and time to change it into future ones. In the end, I'd just like to get it over with, because maybe even in the replica, I've said something awkward about heretically almost abolishing the union. Of course I'm not in the literal sense of abolishing the union, but to be for one redistribution of that role, yes. For a living maybe moratorium, to throw everything into the real sector. Let's get him cleaned up first, and that gives us a chance to sort this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42008	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42009	You said that labour rights are lagging in real terms compared to the public sector. There is something where labour rights and workers' rights are favoured in the private and real sectors compared to the public sector, which is that people who work in the real sector at least their jobs are not as exposed to political clienteleism as public sector employees are. This is one phenomenon, because those in the real sector, if anything, are looking for an even better worker, and it in the public sector, unfortunately, only employs political clienteleism and places employees. And now I'm going to give an example by the way where the director of a public institution comes to an employee who's great, quality, doing his job well with contracts for almost two years and says he's got a contract for another year here and he says, "Please, just go ahead and sign a breakup, 'cause my political sponsors are asking me to put someone else on that job." It would be good if the place of business were Croatia in '88. but unfortunately, it is the place of business of Croatia, and the time of the shop the day before yesterday and the place of the public institution in the Republic of Croatia. So today, it's all happening now. Political clientelism at all levels, so if anything else, that private employer is less exposed to this political clientelism and its workers. If nothing else is more exposed to competitiveness, then at least he's looking for a better worker. Unfortunately, we're not looking for a better one. We're only looking for ours, no matter who we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42010	Replication response, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42011	Well, I can agree with you for a good part, but it's still about some exceptions. It's not a rule. And please nice and in the public sector we talked about there is still one level of protection and trade union organisation and already these sublegal acts, contracts and there are these rights. In the public sector, I don't know who didn't take advantage of the vacation, who didn't take advantage of the rights I don't know from overtime, etc. Here, please, we suggest that we be taken somewhere blindfolded by the two of us to go to both the public sector and the private sector. After a minute when our eyes untied there, we'll know what's going on. Are we in institutions, public sector institutions or private ones? There's a steady non-sharp in here. Now, let me know, a lot of people listen to me, and I apologize to all those honest, hardworking people who are there, and they're in the public sector. It's clear to me, but on the other hand, you come to some public companies. Well, that's what we're witnessing. It's being recognized in the hallway. Well, that's what coffees wear, I'm a little over the top, I'm a bit of a cartoon. Come to the real sector when you are both announced and unannounced. Now, that's one atmosphere quite different. So we're talking about it. I am both for work and for discipline, but please talk nicely about this division. Why would these differences even exist in Croatia? Why? And that is why I am in favour of strengthening the real sector through, above all, systematically and disagreeing with Mrs. Kosor that the finger should be resisted, because it is dangerous and can cause new injustices. I'm in favor of a systematic solution. Strengthen the real sector systematically, systematically. This will have positive reflections in legislative and any other labour law and towards the public sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42012	Thank you. Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42013	Thank you. Well, my colleague Kovacevic, it bothered me a little bit about your discussion in the way you said employers should be encouraged to get fired because it would be easier and to hire maybe. You pulled the parallel between the good workers and the bad workers and the unemployed. So I don't know what world you live in, but when we talk about a good worker and a bad worker it's a question that needs to be regulated by an employer in a way that rewards a good worker, to stimulate him. But if someone violates the provisions of the law, they do not carry out the obligations he has in the workplace, so even today, the existing law has no obstacle to proving the employer that such a worker is fired. So I don't think, but I'm also sure within that parallel, and you've compared the real sector to the public sector in a way where we in the real sector are going to get quality collective agreements that will regulate, when we're going to build on that part to be rewarded workers who have earned the merit of their work and to ensure that they get stimulation, and the law has no such obstacle when we talk about the unemployed, about not doing their job so that employers first warn them once or twice and if there is this fact that they're fired. No court will take them back to work, no such worker is protected. So when we speak, let us at least make sure that we speak realistically of what is written in the law and what applies to workers who are real, and not to say something that is protected because this law does not protect anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42014	Replication response, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42015	Well, MP Tušak, obviously you did not listen to me, and I was talking about encouraging employers and talking about receiving workers. It was the accent of my discussion and the defense of this proposed legal solution. So, in receiving, not firing. That was an emphasis on my debate. And you said I was talking about encouraging employers to be fired. No, of course not. In the reception, in the reception. Every job, I repeat, is very important today. I often say the workplace is sacred.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42016	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42017	Your esteemed colleague, you made one claim that no one would fire a good worker. Now the question is, what's a good worker? A good worker is the one who works 12 hours, and he's paid eight hours. A good worker is that worker who doesn't ask for work hours, who obeys the employer's wishes. And the bad worker is the one who wants to work eight hours, and if he's working 12 hours to pay him four hours, that's the pumpkin. Good workers are those workers who don't want to be unioned, those workers who agree to disorganize. The big trade chains, there's a bauk orbiting the union. One who joins the union is the first to be fired. It's not a problem for these workers, it's a problem for this country, an unsettled state that doesn't protect workers. So, what's a good worker? It's a question, and it seems to me that he wants to fight, and you have that intensity, to fight the real sector with the public sector. Real and public sector workers. This means that the public sector needs to be abolished by the rights that they now have to be in a bad state. Instead of fighting to protect workers in the real sector. No, we're going to now, try and through the media every day we look at TV that normally places a huge capital of stories that the state pays too much to the workers, that the state too much to pay outside of its salaries to the workers and that these workers should be aware of the rights they have in the real sector. And in the real sector, they have virtually no rights whatsoever. Ask the workers who are standing in the registers of trade chains for what they may, which they must not, when they are allowed to move away from the register. What do they do after eight hours, that they have to edit the bagacins, do they get paid? They don't get paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42018	Replication response, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42019	Thank you. That I know more or less, but again you're putting something in my mouth not only I didn't say but the intensity wasn't my debate. And when you've been talking about a good worker again, so you've cracked the situation, but let's get going from a good employer, please. Well, not all employers in this country are bastards. They really aren't. Well, there are beautiful people, honest, working, so responsible for their employee. I'm talking about them, too. And we give them a chance to get a better job, and I cheer that exactly the kind of employers hire new ones. That's exactly what we're talking about. Let's talk about the positive stuff and go to the negative. In that sense, I stand for a systematic solution in the real sector. You put it in my mouth that I'm at that trend. Well, my habitat isn't like that, please, so I'd argue and if I wanted to, I couldn't do the public sector with the real one. I don't think so. Well, I'm not in favour of reducing rights, so I'm trying to make it a moratorium for those rights until the real sector reaches them. If you really want to rough it up, we can still discuss it. Because we have opened a wide topic that crosses the frames of this plenary session and should probably be organised on that topic and on some round tables, panel discussions and something like that. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42020	Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42021	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, I listened well, so I wrote down the sentence you said, one of the rhetorical questions that we have to worry about? We have to take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we have to take care of excellent workers but we also have to take care of those who can't for a thousand and one reason be such workers that Croatian employers accept them as gold and will never fire them. Of course, there are good and bad employers. But look, employers have capital, employers have power, and our main concern should be to take care of pigeons and poor women like in that song, rich people will take care of themselves. We don't need to take care of them, they take care of themselves, so don't you see that on the road? Can't you see how they take care of themselves and how they take care of themselves in the image of this DTR worker? So they've been fucking for 14 days in front of the store. It terrifies me when the Social Democrats talk about good and bad workers, the good will protect, the bad won't. Who will establish these criteria? You, me or their employer? Well, probably their employer. And who are these good workers for this and such employers? Of course, those who work, keep quiet, don't complain, and don't ask for wages every month, but sometimes when they happen to come. The fundamental question is, who do we represent here and whose interests do we have here? When we clear that up, then it's clear to us who's discussing and who's setting up. You were talking about unfair competition. unfair employers who use workers through these agencies and otherwise, and you don't talk about what happens to workers, but the poor employer... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42022	Thank you. The answer to Boris Kovacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42023	And this last one just once again proves that here I am or you didn't want to listen to me, or that's exactly what I was talking about in this segment about protecting workers, that's exactly what I'm talking about. But since you've all given up almost everyone in your club, you've had a mantra one frame that you've talked about and you've probably known in advance what you're going to say before I've even spoken and so you're repeating the same thing and I'm asking nicely so that's not at all the intensity of my debate that you and now in the last line you're going to put in my mouth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42024	The final word of Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42025	Thank you very much. The discussion was a little bit more about other things, a little less about amendments to the law, but that's when the debate in the House is then we sometimes discuss things that concern the Labour Act but are not a direct link to the matter itself that was under discussion today. So in my closing statement, I'm going to answer some of the dilemmas that came out here without being tied to the bill itself. So I hope that the bill will get the support of all clubs because these amendments to the law are going on that trail that we're going to make, and that is to bring the new Labour Act that will be in line with both trade unions and employers, and that I repeat those three objectives. One is the protection of workers, the other is easier to restructure and easier to employ and the third is that there are no legal concerns anymore, especially when we talk about the judgments of Croatian courts. As regards the Law on crafts and laws relating to the labour market and the Employment and Compensation Office received from the Employment Office, that part will be settled through amendments to the Employment Encouragement Act and unemployment benefits. Namely, the owners of the craft will pay a contribution to employment in the amount of minimum basics what they are doing now when they pay contributions to health and pension insurance. And clearly based on that basis, it is minimal, clear that it will be able to pay and contribute to employment on a higher basis, it is a matter of their choice but they have to pay on that minimum basis and on that basis they will also have the rights that will result from it, but will also be in changes to the law and defined reasons for the termination of the work of the crafts, so in which cases the owners of the craft will be entitled to compensation for the unemployed once they have put out the crafts. As for the observation that this law had to be passed before, so we concluded the negotiations on the law in February of this year, so very quickly we began at the beginning of this year in February to agree on the changes. But unfortunately, it took us about three months until we got the European Commission's statement. As you know, we have until 1.7. All of these laws that are under monitoring must be made clear by the European Commission and especially by the fact that this part that is attached to the directive was in there. So it took three months and more than we expected, but I don't think there's gonna be any problem getting to the deadline that we need, which is that the law will come into force before 1.7. As regards the 2010 amendments, they are not the same today, and they are different in the way the 2010 amendments were made in the way the amendments were adopted today. So as I pointed out these amendments to the law are a product of consensus between unions, governments and employers. The 2010 amendment was not proposed in this way than was unilateral. But it doesn't matter, so the government will propose a new Labour Act in two readings, so I predict that somewhere in the 9th month we will have our first reading and that we will adopt the law by the end of the year after the second reading. So he's going into a regular procedure. But not only that law, there comes a whole set of laws that regulate this matter. The new Pension Insurance Act, the Short Working Time Act, the half-painted or unpopular Unworked Friday Act that didn't order success. There's also the Law on occasional business. Also, since we are entering the European Union, the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds will be divided into two laws. Amendments to the Pension Insurance Society Act are also coming. Right now, he's in the government procedure of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Act. And very soon it will be at the debate of the Labour Protection Act. So we expect that in two readings, the law will be in the fall. And what we have already said is that we will follow the Law of Representativeship and we will see what is problematic in the implementation of this Law and that we will bring about changes, so these amendments are also envisaged. As far as the economic social council is concerned, it is not true that it does not work, but the adoption of the Law on Representativeship of the Centre should have confirmed its representativeness and the foundation of the Five Centres Act, we have centres that are representative and need to conclude a new Agreement on the Economic Social Council. And they are just in agreement with trade unions and employers on the text of the Agreement establishing an Economic and Social Council. And in the meantime, if we don't lose this important social dialogue, the government has signed an agreement with social partners on how it works until a new economic and social council is established. As far as the agency is concerned, it's nice to talk about using a man per person, which is now what I mean by sound. But the first agencies are in our law based on the European Union Directive and, on the other hand, when we talk about restructuring agencies, there is nothing to be restructured. So in the agency people work, so they're in that agency, the agency has nothing to restructure. I don't think there's any, no, there's no reason for the agency to be restructured. Therefore, the agencies are in our legislation, and they need to be further improved. And when we talk about the rights of workers then, when we talk about the rights of workers who work in agencies their rights under our legislation are equal to the rights of workers of those they work with. So if they work in a company together with someone who's an employee of that company, that employee who's employed through the agency must have the same rights and it stands in the law and we're not going to change that absolutely. As for Mr Lesar's observations regarding employment, the Employment and Implementation Office of active policy and employment measures, please give us specific examples. And based on these concrete examples, we will respond. And clearly we can't at all, it's a big system, we can't watch everything and control it. But give us an example, and we will sanction those who did not comply with the law and lead astray those who have applied for these jobs and have caused problems in implementing active employment policy measures. Responsibility must be submitted and everyone must bear the responsibility he has. As for these examples, please provide specific examples and we will respond within 24 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42026	Thank you. Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42027	Dear Minister Mrs., you were talking about, you mentioned the same thing about working courts, actually. Helping workers should be working courts. However, it is a mantra that is repeated all the time, it will not be, will not be functioning by working courts and the judiciary that deals with labour law so long as there is no judicial reform for which you are certainly not responsible. Corrupt courts, judges, protecting the employer, not protecting the workers. You are facing the same citizen of the Republic of Croatia who has been tried for 9 years, a work dispute that lasts 9 years, which is embarrassing. For three years, I had the right to sue the state for it. Nine years and I'm one of those who's a little bit of a judge. And now you're talking about some kind of right, to tie it to that right. And what's going on? First degree court gives you one verdict, then goes to County, then goes to the Supremes, so you go back and walk you like that, actually 3 years of being held in a drawer, after 3 years of being someone... Take it out of the drawer and make a decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those decisions are infinite. Well, I'm sure working courts don't protect workers. That's what I'm saying from my own experience. So long as there is no reform of the judiciary and when it will not be limited to how long the work dispute can last, workers will be in an unembarkable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42028	Djuro Popio, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42029	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, I just have to do it for the public, and you know very well how to say that the 2010 amendments to the Labour Act that you signed, I don't know if you, but most of your party colleagues are, have nothing to do with this and these changes. At that time, we wanted to amend the provision on the extended application of collective agreements that you, of course, changed or adopted in the new Law on Representativeship. So don't compare it because it's not the same. And you didn't get any consent from the union or the social partners for this Representativeship Act. That's true, and I don't know why you need that comparison because it's just not true. As for the objectives that you have stated will bring about a new law, I am afraid that this will not significantly change your relationship on the labour market or improve it. Therefore, the objective should be to regulate the labour market in a way that contributes significantly to improving the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. And that's what's expected. And of course inside that, that's my opinion,... to find within that quality solutions which will satisfy, of course, this fundamental objective as well as the interests of all stakeholders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42030	And Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42031	Minister, in my debate, I sought to be constructive and to warn of possible problems with part of the problems that I have listed you yourself agreed on. When I spoke about agency rental agencies, borrowing, whatever they call it, I read Directive and Convention 181 of the International Labour Organisation. What is missing here, and what you resent when we discuss the law to go a little further is exactly not just a legal norm in the Labour Act, but institutions that monitor the labour market in a protective sense, development and exercise of rights. I have a report from the State Inspectorate last June, a response to my request that was supervised by those agencies, namely, for every time there was surveillance, which was found. In no case did the State Inspectorate find that the employees of the company and those working in the same places, and through the agency have different salaries even though they had three written applications from one company, private property, which deals with telecommunications, because the agency, or the inspector, went only to control the papers in the agency, but not in the company in which the borrowed workers work and did not determine the difference of payment. That's what I warned you about. And in the directive, as well as in the International Labour Organisation Convention, this chapter is particularly stressed that the state must create mechanisms that there is no inequality and thus abuse of that right. Norma is one thing, and admit that we don't have a sufficiently developed system of surveillance and control, and that's where the problem begins, and that's what the State Inspectorate says, that they don't even have enough authority to react when they think they need to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42032	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. We move to a statement on the adoption of the proposed laws we discussed this week. First, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 375. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 166. I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I say we've made a decision with 113 votes in favour and one abstention. I ask Minister Miranda Mrsic to explain Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42034	The Deputy Prime Minister, therefore the amendment to the Government is aimed at amending Article 6 of the final draft of the law in order to remove the possibility of doubting the issue of protection of workers' rights in the event of unjustified grounds for failure, in particular if the resignation would essentially result from the address of workers to the authorities of the state authorities on grounds of reasonable suspicion of corruption. In addition, this amendment sets out the right of workers to judicial protection, i.e. to contest cancellations due to dissatisfaction at trial work. In this respect, it is proposed that the application of unwarranted grounds for cancellation should also be subject to the notice of termination of the employment contract and the return of workers to work in the event of unwarranted termination.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42035	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club representatives can participate in the debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the adoption of Amendment No. 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous with 115 votes to accept the 1st amendment of the government. Amendment No. 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42036	So it's also wrong to use language expressions, so instead of using them electronically in an appropriate paragraph.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42037	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving adoption to the second amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 115 votes, the 2nd amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted. We are moving to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42038	The government does not accept for reasons why we will pass a new Labour Act by the end of the year, where at the beginning of the law we will count all the directives relating to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42039	The board president?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42040	When that's the case, then it's accepted and this amendment is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42041	Amendment No. One is withdrawn. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42042	Therefore, Amendment 2 is related to Article 1 so when we agreed to withdraw Article 1. The Government does not accept Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42043	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42044	With the new Labour Act coming as announced by the minister, it is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42045	Amendment 2 has been withdrawn. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42046	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42047	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 106 votes in, 7 against and 2 abstentions that have been passed. We'll do it again. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? 7 versus and 3 abstentions. I find that with 104 votes for, 9 against and 3 abstentions, the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Act has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer with the amendment adopted. We move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer, second reading, PZ No. 293 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by Labour and Pension System Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42049	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. So before you is the draft final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer. It is one of the protection mechanisms that protects workers on the labour market and during the implementation of this law we have seen certain problems and shortcomings, and they can be approximately grouped into 4 points. First of all, in some parts there are insufficiently precise concepts. It was also since we passed the bankruptcy law that this law was incompletely in line with the provisions of the bankruptcy law and was also incompatible with the legal views of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Administrative Court of Zagreb. He also placed in an unequal position of domestic and acquittal employers and also lacked a certain part of the law to regulate the handling of certain cases that were not regulated by law, but life forced them to regulate themselves. All this has affected legal certainty and the legality of effective conduct, and these changes have led to all these shortcomings being resolved. More clearly, the content and method of protecting workers' claims in the case of employers is defined, and what is important to highlight with these amendments to the law does not go into the essence of the law, so neither the rights of workers nor the height of those rights. In relation to the draft law which was adopted in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the objection was made at the plenary session concerning the succession of the rights laid down by this law, and since the purpose of the law is manifested in the social security of workers and thus by members of his family, this draft final proposal allowed the rights established by this law to be inherited, i.e. to be inherited by the legal heirs of workers. I suggest that this law be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42050	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the SDP club and colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42051	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate. So before us is the final bill on ensuring the demand for workers in the event of the employer's bankruptcy, so in the second reading. Somewhere during the first reading, it was already clear that practically all clubs in the Assembly would support this bill. The law normally dates back to 2003 was changed in 2008 and is now in front of us in the second reading and third amendments to the law. It is the law that deserves to be said a few sentences precisely because it regulates the claims of workers arising from the working relationship of workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer. The law also established the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy and established rights that enjoy, protect, conditions and the way in which those rights are protected. A bankruptcy which arises as a result of primarily incompetence for payment or over-indebtedness in relation to workers assumes, i.e. the assumption is for the termination of the labour contract. The position of the workers is more difficult because, as a rule, the employer did not regularly pay the salaries, contributions, fees, any severance and the like. And basically the worker what he has earned, therefore earned and not paid can only be sought in a bankruptcy procedure that is complex and long-term, and it is clear that it is the workers themselves who are the hardest to bear this waiting because it is essentially their safety, social security, but not only theirs but also their families threatened and months before the bankruptcy because we know that for many months we have not paid a minimum payment. Therefore, in the field of social protection, special protection is carried out precisely in part of the religious claims of workers and ensures payment of that part to the burden of the state budget, while the remaining part of the claim is carried out by the worker in the bankruptcy procedure. The model is not that complicated, although it is of course necessary to satisfy, or collect and attach certain documentation when making the request. And that's why we at the SDP club support it, too, and I would say certain efforts and efforts, and the agency itself, which is in charge, so to pay off the claim that it further promotes this form of protection of workers' rights to make it as clear as possible and as known as that. Because we often have observations that workers don't know what their rights are. But of course, it's not just the agencies, but we at the SDP club think it's also one of the basic tasks to say so and the unions that are, of course, there's the bankruptcy manager and all the others who need to provide information to workers how and how they can exercise their rights. We consider the final bill before us at the SDP club extremely important because it is also the result and observed shortcomings in the application of the law itself, certain discrepancies with other laws such as the bankruptcy law. It follows in some ways and examples of judicial practice, or what has been shown in court proceedings. And it's definitely the way it is going towards faster and simpler billing for workers' claims. As the minister himself has initially explained in terms of how the amendments themselves are concerned, I will not be too long, but I would especially like to emphasise that what the ministry has accepted from the first reading of the law seems to be extremely important to us, and that is, the possibility of inheriting the law and we think that this is important, positive. Because the very time when workers did not receive salaries, when they did not receive fees that I said, of course, at the beginning of the debate, it was not only their personal security or their rights to receive what they earned but was indirectly affected by their family, and in the event of the death of workers during the course of this process we welcome the possibility that there is a possibility of succession. The second thing we also welcome, which is that it was not agreed that members of the administration were also involved and that they were allowed to pay off on these grounds, regardless of when they took over or ran the company at any time and were directly involved in bringing the company into bankruptcy because we consider that the explanation given by the ministry is that the members of the administration themselves are protected by additional and special contracts that they make in the work, i.e. we primarily mean their management contracts. So that's enough protection. So we welcome this final bill. We consider it extremely important because the basis of these changes and the basis of this law is to get as fast as possible and as simple as possible to collect workers' claims in bankruptcy procedures that can be extremely long-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42052	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Đuro Popiac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42053	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Minister. Thus, during the first reading, it was said that the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy of the employer and here are these amendments and additions to a large extent we stick to the fact and clarify or improves the text of the existing law that was passed in 2008. Therefore, as stated by the Law on ensuring the demand for workers in the event of insolvency of the employer, special protection is carried out within the framework of the State's social protection activities, in part of the religious claims from the working relationship of workers in the event of the employer's bankruptcy and at a socially acceptable level, and in the context of budgetary opportunities. So here, this bill went into a more precise definition of the concepts, of course, which is important because in the case of disputes, there are various interpretations, and it is good that the concepts of closer are explained. So it's clear that this law had to comply with the provisions of the new bankruptcy law. Also compared to the position of the domestic employer and workers and foreign employer and workers because we are entering the common market. Here's a good one, too, by accepting the suggestion that rights can be inherited. And as for this refusal that possibly the former members of the administration who stayed in that legal person with that employer but no longer in that status, we don't really understand what it is because it doesn't have much to do with management contracts. They are, of course, always tied to certain bonuses or severances and, in general, such members of the administration are no longer and are not employees of the legal person, but here in some cases, possibly if more during some period they have performed this duty as members of the administration then the company worked and for various reasons, of course, successfully, after that comes the problems, the bankruptcy comes. And now they are in the status of an ordinary worker or as any other employee, and now more because of that some former status, even if it was 25 years ago, they no longer have those rights. It's not right and it's not right. And we believe that this should be seen as a contribution to the better quality of this law. But the same seems to me to be an open question of what will craft workers be charged from? Because again, the issue remained open in view of the undefined assets of the Law on Turnings, which was the subject of this debate several days ago. So we accept these changes and additions, and we do regret that all our other objections have not been respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42054	Thank you. Replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42055	You see, I was deliberately in my replica when the previous Labour Act mentioned the issue of craftsmen expecting the minister in his opening section to explain this bill that we support to be touched by craft employees. Because honestly speaking of what the definition of craftsman's property actually doesn't exist at all in the Law of craftsmen. It raises the question of 100,000 people working in crafts, after all, and the new status of a craftsman who does not have a salary under the law but his profit is some difference between income and expenditure but will have the right to compensation on the Stock Exchange if the craft stops working. However, one elemental question arises, some worker initiates bankruptcy or another craftsman, despite the fact that this craft is not a legal person but someone has some claim, some believer is, since the law does not define property. However, the explicity in the law states that this is Article 36, paragraph 2, that the assets in which the craft operates cannot be carried out. Now the question is raised in the event of bankruptcy itself, given the inconsistencies of this one, is there about 100,000 employees whether it applies to them or not? Because that the Law on Trade defines the property of the craft, what we have proposed to the Minister to make the property of the craft, is where the craftsmanship is carried out. And it's true that it's not a house to live in. Because if you want to carry out your activity in some space, then that space has to be excluded, you have to practically repurpose the space and all the technical features that you have to be in order for someone to carry out the activity. That may be compared to the first reading, Mr. Minister, a new topic that simply cannot be opened. Because we leave 100,000 people in the air who, too, many in craftsmen because of a difficult economic situation, don't get paid. What about them and how to protect them?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42056	Thank you. Now you've spoken to the Minister, and the replica is on a fellow drinker. But the minister explained one part of the final presentation. Here you go, buddy Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42057	Yes, I was going to say that, so probably the minister will say that because he said something about it when he explained the Labour Act, it would be interesting to look at the split situation, given that we are aware of the mass closure of the crafts. So tens of thousands of turns have failed, whether new ones were opening in the meantime, these same or different activities, that's another question. And what exactly is in the context and the management thing, what is the owner of that craft? Whether he is an employer, whether he can also be treated as possibly some member or president of the administration, although of course it has nothing to do with a company in such a status. And will he be treated in this law in the case of this kind of development of his final business venture? I believe, given that this is a second reading, there may still be something to be done or not, but in some other legal solutions such as this and announced and this topic and this problem will be perfectly resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42058	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42059	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Labourists also said in their first reading that they would support the amendments to the Law on Ensuring the Search of Workers in the event of bankruptcy and that we are clearly in line in that position and at the very beginning to say that we will support this law and that it is commendable in any case and this part of what the predecessors said that the claimants of workers in the event of bankruptcy can inherit what a good solution is because the promoter accepted that part of the remark. The law in that part of the first reading of the talk addresses certain questions, so there is no doubt and it is corrected in that part, so that there are no objections to the amendments to the law itself. But in the first reading and also now I will mention a particular question, when workers come into a situation where bankruptcy is clearly opened where they do not receive pay and where there are no sources of income they are in a difficult situation especially if, before the bankruptcy is opened, they do not have any examples, and even then they cannot have certain primates, they are in a very awkward situation to practically ensure their existence that they do not have any examples. For example. We have certain examples and in some companies where no bankruptcy has been opened and where that part of the workers' claim is in some way accumulated and clearly when bankruptcy is to be opened when certain documentation is to be collected and the agency's workers are somewhere on the verge of their endurance and there is a certain part of the problem that I warned about, and for the first time, according to the data we have, the agency has paid off the job claims for 3750 workers somewhere around 40 companies. But clearly you can see from that part of the company that, for example, The Gredelj Railway Vehicle Factory has been paid for over three months in groups of workers that part of the search for workers leading to the problem that I had previously warned that only collection of documentation is one part of a particular problem, not in part of the current amendment of the law but something that we must take into account when we talked about the previous law, which is the Labour Act we have introduced e-books, a booklet which is, in any case, commendable and in some way, the possibility that employers themselves report by electronic means of workers in pension insurance. And when in this case they need to file a request and collect documentation, then we have some significant number of documents that they simply have to collect, and if they don't collect these documents, they can't get a solution and they can't get the money they need at a given time because they're financially exhausted. So, for example, the necessary documentation is a working contract or confirmation of a contract of contract of employment, decision or other proof of termination of a working relationship if it ceases before the bankruptcy is opened, the application of the start of HZMO insurance to the employer over which the bankruptcy is opened and, possibly, all legal consequents prior to the opening of the bankruptcy, the confirmation of the employer of the duration of the working relationship, the historical excerpt from the employer's register, the power to rule on the resulting subsequent damage caused by the occupational illness or injury to work, the number of savings books or current accounts, the employer's confirmation of the registration number of the payment of contributions for personal insurance, the copy of the court's witness submitted by the court, the list of recognition of claims made by the bankruptcy manager, the confirmation of the non-payments of the last three months. That's the part of the problem I'm warning you about, huge paperwork so that workers can actually exercise their rights and we really need to think about it to sort of relieve them. If the amendments to the labour law and the workbooks come out of circulation, and we introduce something new then we must also think about the case when it comes to the rights of workers and their claims that we must in some way make it easier for them to get these necessary money that they only have in some way survived at the time when they are in a very awkward situation and have not received salaries for 5.6 months, and that is the only source, they are in charge, they borrowed money. We have a live example of DTR workers who were here the other day before the government and they cried because they didn't have sources of income to survive. A similar situation is also in the Zadar factory of Adria where the same workers have no sources of income and when it comes to what is worst clear that in any case none of us wants because opening up bankruptcy is something that is not good and it is good that we have a pre-determined procedure and that the company tries to get away with the bankruptcy itself but we must then make sure that workers get to their claims as easily as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42060	Thank you very much. Minister Miranda Mrsic's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42061	Thank you very much. So when we talk about paperwork, part of the paperwork will probably be able to be solved automatically through the OIB system, so all of the institutions in the system will be connected, some of them are already so that for a good part of the things that are being solved, for example. for a child's allowance de facto unlike the previous years where you were supposed to collect a large amount of paper, it was all reduced to one or two paper that was most necessary. So we'll probably be able to do some rationalization in this part too, but the other part is related to the bankruptcy act, so the bankruptcy law, so this law is bound to that law. It is therefore impossible not to collect these papers because they are normal and part of the bankruptcy process. This law is part of a law that we can call a safety net for workers in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this system of laws ensures workers' rights and ensures payment of the rights of those workers. So I would mention that with this Law there is the Labour Act, clearly in which ways are defined to preserve workers' rights. Short-term law, so the Law that we will pass in Parliament in the second half of this year will be focused on preserving jobs at a time when the company has problems with production. So instead of going bankrupt or pre-determined, we're going to go to short hours. With the state being set up, we will be able to aliminate part of the workers' salary. Thus, this Law is directed at workers and not at the employer. Also, the fund is a new one that we are talking about right now and something that will also increase workers' safety. This means that those severances that were both in bankruptcy and in the failures of businesses were lost and that workers could not reach them to be in a safe place and that they could reach them at any time regardless of what was happening to the company. And the Law on fostering employment and unemployment benefits is the fourth law to ensure the safety of workers when we talk about legal and material safety of workers in the Republic of Croatia. So I suggest that this law be accepted. And what's absolutely certain is that the fund is doing its job and unfortunately the companies are going bankrupt. But what we have to say is that workers get their guaranteed rights even though the state pays everything in 30% of their claims. But I'm saying, the safety of the workers is in the first place to pay off those rights that they have the right to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42062	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42063	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Jobs' Claims in the event of bankruptcy, second reading, P.Z. No. 293. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Minister, please, Minister Miranda Mrsic. Amendment 1 to Article 2. The Legislative Committee. The amendments were not discussed at the cabinet session, so we will postpone the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42064	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 88 votes in favour and 23 votes have been abstentions, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of employer bankruptcy, has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42065	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 376; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42066	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The final Proposal for a Road Safety Act in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia fully transposes the EU Directive of the European Union which regulates certain issues relating to the obligation to use safety belts in vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes, initial qualifications and periodic training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the transport of goods and passengers, driving licences and facilitating cross-border exchange of information on traffic safety-related offences. The most important part of the changes and additions prescribed by vehicle categories and driving licences apply to the minimum age for AM categories consisting of mopeds and multicultivator, the limit is reduced, age from 16 to 15 years. In the A1 category, which includes motorcycles with or without a side trailer, a working range of up to 125 cubic centimeters and a engine power of not more than 11 kilowatts and a power and mass ratio of not more than 0,1 kilowatt per kilogram. And motor vehicles on three wheels whose power is not more than 15 kilowatts and the minimum age for that category A1 is 16 years. B category of motor vehicles other than AM, A1, A2, A, F and G of which the maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3,5 000 kilograms and which are designed and constructed for transport of not more than 8 passengers, not counting the driver seat. Motor vehicles of this category may be combined with a connected vehicle whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 750 kg. Without prejudice to the provisions on the type-approval of vehicles in this category, motor vehicles in this category may be combined with a trailer whose maximum permissible mass is greater than 750kg, provided that the maximum permissible mass of this combination does not exceed 4 tonnes and 250kg. In the event that the maximum permissible mass of such a combination of vehicles is greater than 3,5 thousand kilograms, such a combination may be managed by the driver only after having passed the driving test for that combination of vehicles from the teaching course of driving. The difference in the current provision of the Road Safety Act is the possibility that the maximum permissible mass of such expensive vehicles exceeds 3,5 000 kilograms and does not exceed 4250kg. But then a driving test is required to manage such a combination of vehicles which will be marked by the corresponding code in the driver’s licence. If the maximum permissible mass of such a combination exceeds 4250kg, a driving licence for the management of vehicles of category B+E should be owned. C1+E category the most significant difference compared to the applicable provision is the possibility that vehicle sets where a towing vehicle is not a category C1 but belongs to category B, but because it is combined with a trailer which has a maximum permissible mass of 3,5 000 kilograms and provided that the maximum permissible mass of the combination of a vehicle does not exceed 12 thousand kilograms falls within category C1+E. It is important to note that, in accordance with the applicable provisions, vehicles of category B are not allowed to draw a trailer which has a maximum permissible mass greater than 3.5 thousand kilograms. Furthermore, in the future, the Ministry of Internal Affairs will provide information on vehicles and vehicle owners, i.e. vehicle users on the basis of a Leasing contract, national contact points to other members of the European Union for the purpose of investigating road safety-related traffic offences, and the Minister responsible for Home Affairs has been given the power to prescribe the types and manner of delivery of such data. The concept of a bicycle is also redefined in such a way that it is other than a vehicle with at least two wheels and which is driven exclusively by the driver’s strength as so far and a vehicle equipped with pedals and an auxiliary electric motor whose maximum... power is not greater than 0,25 kilowatts and which is gradually reduced to zero when the speed reaches 25 km/h or before if the driver ceases to move pedals. The concept of an animal transport vehicle is also defined in such a way that it is a means of transport used for the transport of animals for which, if the journey takes longer than 8 hours, a certificate of approval of the means of transport is issued in accordance with the provisions of a specific regulation adopted by the Minister responsible for agriculture. As regards this day, it is up to the authorities of the veterinary service mobile units to carry out and monitor the specific conditions laid down in specific regulations, to monitor the duration of the total driving time of the vehicle for the transport of animals and the surveillance of tachographs, to use special devices on their vehicles to provide light and sound signs and thus to exercise the right to benefit from passing but only as they exercise control. That they have on their vehicles devices that print orders and notifications to drivers moving ahead or behind them and exclude the transport of animal transport vehicles for the purpose of monitoring the specific conditions laid down in specific rules. For the purpose of harmonising the criminal and criminal legislation, the provisions of Article 244 have been amended in such a way as to limit the infringement only to cases of non-registration of the prescribed number of registration plates and Article 289 in such a way as to make it clear that it is a breach of the protection measure for the management of motor vehicles rather than security measures. I remind you, the violation of the security measure imposed in criminal proceedings is a criminal offence. These amendments do not provide for any new penalties but only a description of the entity of the offence is defined in such a way as not to overlap with the descriptions of the entity's criminal acts of counterfeiting the document, Article 278. KZ and non-execution of a court decision, Article 311 KZ. Furthermore, requirements for issuing a driving licence can be submitted to any police department or police station in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, allowing citizens to be more easily resolved. The vehicle registration procedure shall also streamline the costs as the vehicle's booklet is withdrawn and only a transport licence is issued for the registered vehicle, and any police department or police station of the Ministry of Interior shall be certified in a transport licence extension procedure, and in such a way as to speed up and facilitate the registration of the vehicle. Finally, it should be noted that all driving licences remain valid until their expiry and for the longest time until 19 January 2033. Also transport licences and vehicle booklets shall be valid until their completion or until the first change of owners so that no additional costs are caused to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42067	Thank you, Deputy. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, by the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke of Work, the Honorable Representative Mladen Novak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42068	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. There's no need to talk about these categories that you've taxed. Anyway, I'm going to say right now that we're going to support these amendments to the law. What was most mentioned in public about the details of these changes is the removal of the vehicle's booklet, and in any case, I welcome it. I must admit that I never came to the realization of what was actually going to be achieved, that is, what were the effects of the introduction of that vehicle book itself that had been achieved if we excluded the effect that it was an additional blow, a kind of blow to the citizens because that form, too, that document cost. Anyway, I think it's a good move, but after all, I don't think anyone has even explained why the previous one was even introduced. What I read when I read this text which confused me a little was Article 23, that is, the amendment of Article 252 of the new paragraph 2, which says: the extension of the validity of the traffic permit is carried out by the departments for the technical examination of the vehicle or police department, or police station. The technical inspection of the vehicle shall be carried out by the station for the technical inspection of the vehicle. Now I don't understand if she has the authority to confirm an extension of a traffic permit which would make someone use the right or option or, in general, in what sense this is intended to go to a police station, or police administration if they can do anything at the vehicle's technical inspection station. At the same time, in order to extend the traffic permit at all, it must carry out a technical examination. So there's everything in one place. This is physically segregating. I don't know why. I'm afraid as soon as we give, we're opening up that possibility that in some way we might be unconsciously giving us the possibility of some manipulation with these documents. I don't think the proposer had that in mind. The traffic permit, which was issued in the process of extending the validity of the traffic permit, was certified by the police administration, or police station. Now I have to be honest that I didn't realize if it was the one that was filled, so it's changing, replacing with the new one. Because otherwise, I really don't see any reason why it wouldn't be done by a technical inspection station which is actually the only one relevant to determine whether the vehicle is technically correct in order to extend the traffic permit at all. I just have these misunderstandings. This is everything else you said I absolutely support, so that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42069	The HDZ Club's position will be presented by respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42070	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Motorized road traffic is one of the essential features of modern civilization. All the benefits of this phenomenon, unfortunately, and we continue to pay for the high price of unwanted human suffering. In addition to individual tragedies and society suffers great losses due to traffic accidents. For many years, we have witnessed that Croatian roads were almost battlefields on average from year to year, from 14.2 to 14.5 inhabitants per 100,000 inhabitants, which were far above the European average and the declared goal of all governments that the number of deaths should be reduced to 10 and less fatal deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. In 2008, a very important law was passed in its essence because it acts preventively in its entirety, and it affects the safety of road traffic that protects the most important, which is the lives of Croatian citizens. Construction and modernisation of national roads networks, highways with full application of the Road Safety Act from 2008 to 2011 with sublegal acts has been done much in creating conditions for the maximum safety of traffic and passengers on Croatian roads and highways. For comparison only, the number of people killed in transport in 1979 was the highest in the history of 1605 killed in the area covered by the Republic of Croatia today. By passing the law in 2008 when the most debate was being held on the abolition of the zero prominence provision introduced in 2004 the number of deaths was 664, 2009. 548, 2010. 426, 2011. 418th and last year 390. In the last year, there were slightly less than 37,000 car accidents in which I said 390 people were killed, and some less than 16,000 people were injured more or less. It encourages the fact that, for the fourth year in a row, a positive trend has continued to reduce traffic accidents and victims as well. Although the death toll has fallen to below 10 per 100,000 inhabitants, the indicators are good. But we cannot be satisfied with the movements in Europe because Croatian figures are still significantly worse than European figures. This shows that there are still great opportunities for improvement. Of course we can ask what contributes to that? Does it contribute to the dominant work of the police themselves? And yes and no. Does that contribute to, say, new kilometers of highways and state roads? And it could be yes and no. Does this also contribute to the new moments that we have in the Republic of Croatia in the last year and a half, which are record high petrol prices. Do people, given the price of gasoline, get less and drive? It's possible to say yes and no. In developed European countries that have invested most in road safety today, this coefficient is moving around six deaths to 100,000 inhabitants. When the safety of traffic on Croatian roads will reach that level will also depend on the efforts of the entire society, and especially on the development of the transport culture of all road users. This bill, which is further harmonised with EU directives, also brings some newspapers. It enables citizens to have simpler solutions to their driving licence requirements, since the proposed amendments and additions to the requirements can be submitted to any police administration, i.e. in the territory of the Republic of Croatia which has an administrative department, in any police administration, the extension of the traffic licence may be verified after it has been printed at the Technical Review Station. The vehicle's booklet is deleted as so far a mandatory document proving the ownership of a particular vehicle, its technical and other characteristics and characteristics which are now attached to a transport licence which has so far proved the right to mark a particular vehicle with certain registration plates and the ownership of those tiles and other characteristics and characteristics of the vehicle, as well as to meet other conditions for participation in traffic. In the light of Article 213 of the Law, it states that no longer car-school licenses for training can be withdrawn and that paragraphs 5 and 6 of that Article are therefore deleted. However, that provision remains in paragraph 3 where the erasure of the same is not foreseen, meaning the erasure of the third paragraph is not foreseen, and the words remain: "if he performs affairs at the time of the imposed measure of labour ban". If we want to be co-existent to the end I think it's necessary to erase it, i.e. provide for in Article 8 of this Act. The third paragraph of Article 213 is based on the implementation of the infringement provisions. Nomotechnical doubt remains, as the ban applies to auto school as a legal person, and the intended withdrawal of the licence is finally and refers to employees. The permanent ban on work and withdrawal of the licence remains in force as a final option unless deficiencies are removed within 30 days. The mobile units of the veterinary inspection shall be able to possess light-signing devices as well as the authority to stop the vehicle carrying the animals and carry out the supervision of the tachographs. Citizens of EU countries are allowed to replace their driver's license for Croatia's driver's license without passing a driving test. After the entry into force of this Act, the vehicle's books shall be valid until the first change of the owner of the vehicle and traffic by the date entered in the transport licence. The driving licences shall be valid until the expiry date and no later than 19.01.2033. Speaking of penalties, we find them rather drastic. Penalties for not having a sufficient number of license plates or international markings or poor visibility are provided for in the amount of 5 to 15 thousand kuna for legal and natural persons craftsmen, not for citizens. We think they're a little too big because often it happens that either you don't know or you didn't see that you lost one license plate, we can't influence something, and the penalty is really dragonishly high from 5 to 15 thousand kuna. What we want to warn here, and we have received a letter from the HAK, unfortunately is not a question of these amendments and the addition of the law, and as regards the provision of Article 306 of this Act, which refers to the regulation of the time limit within which the mandated HAK interrogators who carry out the driving exams and who have not acquired the prescribed high professional equipment may continue to carry out those tasks and for a maximum period of 5 years from the date of entry into force of the applicable law. In practice, this means that these jobs can be carried out by 16 June 2013. After this deadline, 27 authorised interrogators who carry out driving tests for failing to obtain a high level of professional training will be out of work and will, of course, end up at the Employment Office. It's a question of saying the law we're not discussing today. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. This memo we received shows that communication with the Ministry of the Interior has been attempted, however, it is obvious that it either did not understand or did not respond to that fact. And they even suggest that, and this is possible only by the amendment of the Government, that Article 306 changes how those 27 people of whom have enrolled colleges needed to continue their duties, some of whom are before the end of the study, they are over 52 years old, some and over 60 years old, will simply be left without a job by way of the law but also the one that has limited it to five years. I don't know if it's possible, by amendment of the government until tomorrow's reading, because we think it's something that maybe needs to be respected even though it remains a question of course both personal and human responsibilities why hasn't it been done in the past five years? And what we want to notice is that we have a large number of irresponsible retrieval drivers, or those returnees who are constantly committing violations, without respecting traffic rules, so that a whole series of such violations doesn't end up at the beginning of a large material damage, or people's victims, are the same after paying fines and any short-term prison returns to the same manner of behavior. It's always a matter of time before the worst happens, and these are the consequences of fatal accidents or severe bodily injuries and deaths. There is no right measure in this existing measure, neither in this, perhaps or permanent withdrawal of the driver's license or withdrawal of the vehicle itself. The HDZ Club will support this bill. We think it's good, that it contributes both faster and better, a more regulated transport system and traffic security along with this small request that the Deputy Minister just tells us what he thinks of this HAC request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42071	Thank you. Damir Cain has applied for the club of independent representatives. He's gone, so the club of independent MPs loses the right to debate on this agenda point. It is up to the HDSSB club and the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. Well, the HDSSB club will also support these changes and additions to the Transport Safety Act. These few items mentioned by the predecessors, the removal of the vehicle book perhaps that we had previously thought about it was not a very clear reason nor why this book exists except that the bank is being seized by credit and deposited until credit is paid. And that a citizen has to pay more, right, another book he pays extra when he registers the vehicle. We should have waited all these years to join the EU and coordinated to remove a document that was more or less important to us drivers of the B category never really represented anything. We didn't see the meaning of that document at all. When it comes to this short-term use of a driver's license for 10 years, I guess it's about those books because the card is like a credit card, so it's probably the idea that it'll be spent or destroyed more than that old driver's license. Otherwise, I don't see exactly why, after every 10 years, this same permit would have to be re-produced. And Mr. Boris was also saying something about the trend in traffic accidents and the number of deaths in traffic. And I really think that we should give recognition under all these circumstances, acknowledge the recognition and work of the Croatian police who, by means of traffic prevention, by active traffic prevention and by a certain tightening of the law, have reduced the number of traffic accidents, but also by improving the roads, improving the active and passive safety of cars themselves in '79, there was no back-up in cars, let alone that there were airbags and other safety equipment in cars. Therefore, when only the head restraints were introduced, the number of car accidents was reduced significantly in cars, and then airbags came and all other active and passive equipment in cars that in itself significantly reduced the trends of traffic loss, and of course the work of the Croatian police improved roads and everything else that follows. And I think that we have more or less achieved some frameworks with what I personally think is a good part, that is now my opinion, that traffic penalties are fines for many traffic violations too high, so what's really only going on is that people don't pay if they don't have money. They wait for prisons that are overcrowded, so I can't wait for them, and that's how these violations go into obsolescence, and they turn into other forms of support and so on. On the other hand, we may not have restrictively sanctioned just certain target groups that are to be identified and in which these so-called groups are also spoken. Recidents of those who really often and in large numbers are constantly breaking, breaking the law and pose a serious threat to everyone else in traffic, not to themselves but to everyone else. For them, we don't have enough legal measures to sanction them well and well. In view of them, we may be too mild. One more thing I'd like to mention is questions about passing exams, driving exams. So, in the course of passing the driving exam, we're also taking first aid. As far as I could have noticed by reading these directives and the European Parliament that we are referring to in this law, I have found nowhere to be mentioned. So the directives work out all those conditions that must be satisfied when to pass exams, so the number of hours, adopted skills, theoretically practical part and elements of the theoretical and practical part, but let's say our speciality called first aid is gone. so I would also call on the other side of my personal experience from work and in this segment it is my own opinion that otherwise Croatian drivers and in general our practice have shown that the large scales of this first aid are not even there, that this is a regular practice that exists for many years but has never been in place, or at least I have not noticed any case where the drivers of the laymen have ever succeeded and could or could have provided any form of more adequate first aid and therefore my opinion that perhaps I should simply consider that it should be lifted. And that those resources that exist are directed at those who should really provide first aid in the first place, both to the police and to the firemen, so those who come first to the scene today, and generally do not know and are not trained to provide any first aid, I think they should be further educated, not actually harassing people by some difolt to go to that first aid to learn something they never understood. And so we have this fixed-minded, 20-year-old model that I don't think at all has any great sense or great sense of purpose or ever proved to be of any use to the unhappy. And I'm saying that in the context of these directives, some kind of first aid and something about it in the context of a driving exam they don't mention at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42073	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected representative of Gordana Sobol will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42074	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. Therefore, regarding the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act on behalf of the SDP Club, we will support these proposed amendments and additions. We think they're good. They are also harmonising with our future EU membership. We agree with colleagues who have previously pointed out that we welcome the removal of the vehicle's booklet and agree that those who really believe that this vehicle book turns out to be used only when getting credit when buying a car. What this law was otherwise under discussion on individual committees, and we would like to warn on behalf of the SDP club, I think that Boric spoke of it, for many years, or every year. I'd say, in vain battles with those drivers, that's what I'd say. traffic participants who are relapsers, multiple relapsers. And then when an accident occurs with tragic consequences suddenly surfaces to show that the person who drove that car caused someone's death has not only dozens but even hundreds of different reports behind him that then all comes down to the very cause that led to such a tragic consequence. This primarily refers to too much speed, also to frequent alcohol - influenced driving. So, the series, so a series of reasons why they've already been stopped, has been imposed on them, whether they're paying the fine or not. However, they have repeatedly returned to traffic. They went back to the moment until they caused an accident. True, it's even scarier than that and what happens and after that, we've recently had such an example but that's not the point of this law right now, but it should also be said that after one such terrible accident in Slavonski's ship that the judge let go free until the trial of the person who caused this terrible accident without even having his driver's license taken away. So the question of withdrawing the driver's license on the spot, that is, the question of confiscation of the means that one of the most difficult, most difficult accidents have been committed. Mostly when we talk about tragic accidents or when we talk about serious injuries. So it's a question of the possibility of taking away the car as the means it was committed, which actually caused the accident with severe and tragic consequences. When we discussed this on individual committees, it even went to the Government to try, here is even during this proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Road Safety Act to go and also to amend certain articles relating to it. We do not think that, in the SDP Club, it may be possible right now, but we ask, therefore, that the competent ministry, in cooperation with other ministries, determine the possibility that in some future changes or a new road safety law or amendments will go in this direction, so that in Croatia too, it may become an option when it comes to serious traffic accidents with tragic consequences and which are caused by multiple relapses that there is the possibility of confiscation of funds, i.e. vehicles of what is said on the spot and, of course, the withdrawal of the driver's license. Here's what we wanted to contribute to today's debate. I hope that here's the government to be open to this possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42075	I thank and now I give my word to Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Evelin Tonkovic to give the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42076	Honorable Vice President, Honorable MPs and MPs. Any law like anything in life can always be better. And we all share the same goal and interest in improving road safety because it concerns both us and our families and our children. What was kind of highlighted as a problem today, I would just briefly try to answer one lapidary display, maybe I'll miss, but I'll try to stick to what's important. Mr. Novak's representative, you said a registration of a traffic permit whether or not to do so in the cells for a technical proposal. They will be worked at the technical inspection station but will also work in police stations according to the citizens' choice. We give the citizen a chance to be in some way to adapt to his needs if he has any interest, that he can make that certificate in both places. As for the verification of the pattern, he must really first in the police department to verify himself because... Data, initial first data must be stored somewhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once the party has first verified that new form in the first registration, all forms and the following forms do not have to be filled in, or verified in the police administration, but will do so at the technical inspection station. What is most intriguing about what a fellow HZD parliamentary representative has said to me is whether we will make it impossible for people who did not meet in time what the legislator gave them, to adapt their expertise to their calling and job needs. I would just mention that in 2008, the Road Safety Act gave that category of people the opportunity to solve the problem within five years. There have been certain, consistent errors in those transitional provisions of that Law. In 2011, these provisions were amended, so in 2011, that the deadline in which they are required to be laid so that they could carry out their occupation further and they can carry out their activities until 9. Seven. 2016. So it's nothing to argue with. Because there has been a mistake in the transitional and final provisions that have somehow been corrected. Therefore, no one will lose their jobs. Well, that was short, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42077	I thank the Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote When. [[Intruder: When.]] Please don't, you have the Rules of Procedure, you've had your time. We've closed the debate, we're crossing, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42078	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 376. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the motionary, Deputy Minister of the Interior, Honored Evelyn Tonkovic, to be shown on Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42079	Thank you, Mr. President. Apprenticed deputies and MPs, Amendment No 1 to Article 32 The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42080	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2 to Article 33, Deputy Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42081	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42082	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3 to Article 35, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42083	It's also accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42084	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 105 votes in favour, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42085	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on electronic communications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 384; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. And amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. The fundamental issues that are covered by this law are the following. Therefore, a new infringement provision is laid down laying down a fine for breach of the rules and deadlines laid down in the EU Regulation and of 531 of 2012. European Parliament and Council of 13 June 2012 on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union, the third Regulation on roaming. Furthermore, certain infringements of the laws relating to the protection of the rights of end-users of services, electronic-communication infrastructure and a single European emergency number 112 are further specified and errors in infringements are corrected. Certain provisions on the obligations of public communications service operators in the field of protection of the rights of end-users of services as well as on the obligation of the operator to apply a single European emergency service number and associated functionality of the emergency call from the vehicle, i.e. e-calls at national level. Further coordination is being carried out with the Law on Administrative Disputes with regard to the jurisdiction of administrative courts in proceedings against acts of the national regulatory authority and electronic communications inspectors. Further alignment is being carried out with the amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, which are also under way. The objectives achieved by the adoption of this law are as follows: conditions are created for the effective and direct application of the third Regulation on roaming in national legislation from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, making use of new significantly lower prices of roaming communications services from 1 July of this year to Croatian citizens as they travel to the Member States of the European Union and of outgoing and incoming phone calls, SMS messages and data transmissions. The same will apply from that day on to citizens of the European Union who come to Croatia. Furthermore, the regulation of the legislative framework for the application of emergency call functionality from the vehicle so-called an e-call which Croatia has already started to test and successfully introduce together with the first Member States of the European Union. Afterwards, facilitating and shortening the procedures for the conclusion of a concession contract to be made by electronic media publishers i.e. In future, radio and television will only be concluded with the regulatory body responsible for electronic media. Finally, I would like to provide a review of the prices of roaming communications services before and after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, i.e. by applying the roaming regulation 3. According to current rules, the phone call from the Republic of Croatia depending on the country to which the call is made is 6-11 kuna per minute, and from 1 July 2013 it will amount to 1.82 kuna per minute and from 1 July 2014. 1.44 kuna per minute, which is three to six times less than now. The incoming phone calls coming to the Republic of Croatia therefore amount to 2.40 to 6.40 kuna per minute, from 1 July with the application of this law 0.53 kuna per minute and from 1 July 2014 to 0.38 kuna per minute, ranging from 4.5 to 12 times less. For SMS messages that now cost 1.6 to 3.2 kn per message from 1 July of this year 0.61 kn per message, i.e. from 1 July of next year 0.45 kuna per SMS message, ranging from 2.5 to 5 times. And the data transfer price today is about 50 kn per 1 MB, and from 1 July of this year it will amount to 3.41 kn per 1 MB, i.e. 1,52 kn of 1 MB from 1 July 2014 which is around 14.7 times compared to now. So, if any of the Croatian citizens benefit from joining the European Union, and that will be useful in making phone calls and transmissions of data and messages more expensive than today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42087	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. In that case, I'm opening a debate. For the first debate on behalf of the Labourist-Stranka Rada Club, a respected representative, Branko Vuksic, appeared, so I invite him to come here for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42088	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So what Mr. Antesic said at the end of his presentation, I fully agree, that is, one of the more joyful news for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We know that there are more in Croatia phones than there are residents and that we are a nation that likes to talk very much, so just from room to room, but we turn on cell phones. However, a few words about what the law does not say and can be hidden in every law, especially that of the Law on Electronic Communications. Because electronic communications are without a doubt we all know that, we know from profit reports, about doing business, not only in Croatia, but in general in the world. And in this business, thanks to some illogical, it can also be said by the murky moves of the state and these moves go far into the past. THT was for years or decades a privileged telecommunications company, we didn't know for a long time, and I don't think most of the public knows what's in those famous sales contracts for THT, either, was in a privileged position. Thank God we now have to adapt to European prices by entering the EU and now we should take a pen or a computer into our hands, calculate how many Croatian citizens have actually been robbed all these years because we have paid tariffs that are astronomical. Now he said the deputy minister actually would several times lower the price. So why didn't they shrink a few times before? Yeah, we weren't in the EU. So we already have before we enter, before we get 1.7. Some benefits from joining the EU. Here we have managed to restrain the powerful because the EU does not allow Croatian citizens to be robbed in this way. The affairs of electronic communications are so powerful that their bosses who are here in Croatia managers can change the decisions and this Assembly can change the laws, and remember, so it gives me the right to make that claim of giving up the payload on SMS messages, on the MMS messages we first made. HDZ made a decision to abolish, and then the new coalition came and said no, there would be an imposition. After that, Mr. Mudrinic and the rest of the clan's men were thundered, and immediately the government retreated and said no, they will invest in the business. We see how they've invested in business so far. This law on electronic media is very much related to HAKOM, and when we talk about HAKOM, it is related to that HAKOM which is one of the most recent decisions in this assembly, which is the one about the appointment of Mr Lucic as head of HAKOM despite the fact that it is a person and we have made arguments, we have faxed some contracts, a criminal case has been initiated against him which has not been proven by his work so far. And according to what we got and what we warned about was a person who wasn't in the state service, let alone the head of such an important agency. But the interests of the powerful are in most cases above and how we like to beat ourselves to please the very own vanity of this House of Commons. No matter how bad the law was, the practice is even worse in Croatia. There's not such a bad law that practice doesn't get worse than he does and worse. That's why cutting laws made me realize that there's less and less point in cutting laws. However, some articles of this law make it clear to the knowledge that we are in the age, that we have entered deep into electronic times, thus also determining that public communications service operators will no longer have to publish general operating conditions in the daily press as they have now done. Now it's only enough to publish in the daily list or in its shops, to trade means that they are engaged in selling these and offering these services. Why are we doing this? So that We may release the burden of those who earn a great deal of money. I wonder what about those people who don't have Internet, and those in Croatia, those people who don't use the Internet. I don't think that provision is, I don't mind particularly. It bothers me because I'd like to help these wealthy companies advertise in the daily papers that are in crisis. I think it's unnecessary and at the expense of information citizens will make this decision. Article 5 shall specify the existing obligations of public communications service operators on the occasion of the publication of data on their services, on their so-called so-called ‘public communications services’. packages. Let's say those who have cell phones and who take those packages, and then take the famous 50 kuna package. I'm one of those same suckers, so then you take one phone that's not official, so you have your own private and then your account comes, you don't phone for one second, you don't do anything, that phone's a month in the drawer. You know how much you pay? 104 kuna, and 50 kuna is your package. Everything else is air, snow, water, staleness, I don't know what. After all, they've calculated it all, and the legislator tolerates it. So everything that's written in this law looks nice or as it says, so we figured out, let's say, clearly and legibly, and then we figured out what it means to be readable. Readably, this means that it must be highlighted by the font of letters seen by those wearing glasses, so it is legible. So everything here is readable, illogical, and practice is even more illogical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42089	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative Josip Boris will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42090	Thank you very much, Vice President, Deputy Minister. The HDZ club will support the adoption of this law, as the deputy also said, brings benefits to Croatian citizens. One of the few in this year and a half, but it's still moving, I'd say. It was in these year and a half of the laws and measures that went through this House, which have exclusively hit the pockets of Croatian citizens, only the 25 per cent VAT law in 4 years 20 billion kuna in Croatian citizens' pockets more. There were laws that allowed new prices and higher prices of electricity, heating and billions. So it is indeed a blessing that we can say maybe not for everyone but those who travel abroad, who communicate with abroad or tomorrow within the European peoples' or the EU's community that we will still pay something several times less. We discuss this law again after 6 months, then through previous changes and additions it was exclusively about reducing the number of members of the Management Council of HACOM from then 7 to 5. We believe that I believe that finally the business of that agency has stabilized and that through new tasks and through what they receive through this law that this agency will fulfill its tasks. Today everyone uses the Internet, phone, any electronic communication. We believe that this law touches all Croatian citizens even though the 2008 Law, which I say is several times and corrected in changes and additions, has brought a real shift especially in the segment of fixed networks, data transfer, number of mobile operators. So, concrete progress in the telecommunications section. And we think that now this is finally one end that will not be a safe end, there are still measures that will be introduced into it by EU directives, but it gives something that fully liberalises it and allows for cheaper and faster use of all the necessary data. Roaming has so far been the biggest source of extra profit for all operators, so the European Commission has reacted to protect its citizens from these astronomical prices. European Commission i.e. In EU countries, 27 of them came into force on 1.07.2010 and then they were brought in and lower prices of roaming. We heard today from the Deputy Minister how much this is and how it will be applied in the Republic of Croatia since 1.07 this year. For outgoing calls that from 6 to 11 kuna as it was now going to fall to 1.82 kuna, incoming calls from current 2, 4 to 6.4 kuna to 53 June. Of course, these are prices without VAT because each country has a different rate to tax the segment. The prices of text messages fall from current 1.6 to 3.2 kuna to 0.67 kuna as well as the transfer of data from 50 kn to 1MB today to only 3.4 kuna MB. We think it might contribute most to everyone. I don't know if the promoter has led and taken care of what exists in the EU, which is a limit of the monthly roaming account to 50 euros, means when you reach a 50-euro transfer account, your further calls have been disabled, if you haven't defined more limits with your operator before. I don't know if by this law we have such a possibility, I haven't seen her. Maybe that'd be good, too, I say. Although each user himself will assess how long it takes him to go abroad peacefully and return without being welcomed by excessive bills for international calls. The fact is that this law will take several hundred million kuna away from mobile operators in the Republic of Serbia by the end of the year, but it is also the fact that we will continue to communicate with the Republic of Serbia and that a minute with the Croatian Sim Card will cost more than 20 kuna. All in all, as the most important part of this law, which is roaming, a major shift has been made, and we at the HDZ Club express our satisfaction and we are pleased to say that finally Croatian citizens will be able to communicate with abroad at cheaper tariffs. That is why I repeat once again we will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42091	Thank you. Damir Cain has applied for the club of independent representatives. He's gone, the independent club loses the right to argue on this agenda point. I'm the one who concludes this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42092	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 384. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Please, Minister, I'm pleased to see the respected ministers, maritime, transport and infrastructure. Welcome!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42093	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42094	Amendment No. Article 4 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42095	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42096	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Article 9 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42097	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42098	Thank you very much, Minister. It became an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, 99 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42099	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 388; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Register of Ships was established by the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships of 1992 as a public enterprise and the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships of 1996 becomes a public institution which performs tasks of special interest for the Republic of Croatia. The probability of the Croatian Register of Ships is social care regarding the protection of life and property at sea and inland waterways, as well as the protection of the marine environment and the environment of inland waterways. According to the applicable law, the activities of HRB include, among other things, the constitutional certification of maritime vessels which determines compliance with the requirements of international Conventions relating to safety at sea and the protection of the marine environment such as the International Convention on the Protection of Human Lives at Sea from 1974 or SOLAS 74, the International Convention on load lines from 1996 or LL 66, the International Convention on the Prevention of Sea Contamination from Ships of 1973 as amended by the 1978 Protocol. MARPOL 73/78, etc. Then, the constitutional certification of ships not covered by international conventions, such as ships in national navigation, further the constitutional certification of inland navigation vessels, and the support of the Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure to meet the obligations of the Republic of Croatia as flag states and the classification of maritime vessels. HRB is a member of the International Association of Classification Companies, and the process of obtaining EU status is recognised in accordance with the EC Regulation No. 391/2009 of the EU Parliament and of the Council on common rules and standards for vessel inspection and control organisations. And I am pleased to point out that this procedure is almost over. This law lays down a framework for the implementation of Regulation No. 391/2009 EU Parliament and Council of 23 April 2009 Common rules and norms for organisations carrying out ship surveillance and inspection shall be governed by the powers and status of HRB in the period following the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. It was necessary to amend the powers of the HRB in such a way as not to include the activities of the statute certification of ships covered by the international conventions to SOLAS, MARPOL, LL 66 for which HRB may only be authorised as a recognised organisation in accordance with the Regulation of the European Community 391/2009. The law deletes the provisions on the adoption of technical rules adopted since the EU's accession by the minister, and the HRB will continue to provide professional assistance in their preparation. Furthermore, the law amends the financing provision of HRBs in such a way as to finance HRBs from revenue obtained by charging fees from direct users of services, and only the possibility of providing from State budget funds under a specific programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is also prescribed that the revenue generated by HRB through the conduct of operations under this law can be used exclusively to improve HRB's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42101	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ club, the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy. The HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships, with the Final Proposal for the Law. Otherwise, HRB is one of the oldest state institutions since it draws its legal sequence, and this has been confirmed by the International Maritime Organization since the Austrian Register, which was founded in 1858 and is practically 3rd at the age of the world classification office after Lloyd registers from Great Britain and Paris Bureau Veritas. This clearly refers to the importance of HRB because without such a single institution, Croatia would not have all the attributes it carries and has one maritime state, which Croatia is certainly many countries in the world that have a larger commercial fleet with significantly larger numbers of ships and higher tolerances have not organised a single ship certification office or one classification institution that can determine on behalf of the State whether a particular vessel object meets the conditions of navigation safety and protection of the marine environment. Therefore, it is good for the Croatian government to take care of HRB status and to do its utmost to ensure that this institution can firstly confirm and issue certificates for ships that are part of the national fleet. An important moment in the development of HRB after 1992. The international maritime organisations have indeed recognised as the legal successor of one of the oldest classification institutions in the world has certainly passed a law on HRB which is set up as a public and non-profit organisation or an institution that performs tasks of special interest for the Republic of Croatia, and these transactions relate to the identification of the capabilities of ships and floating facilities for navigation, embezzlementing, identifying the ship's ability to work safely and protect the environment and other businesses in accordance with international rules which touch the safety of navigation and protection of the marine environment. What is important and what is well done then is the fact that by the composition of the Governing Council of the Croatian Register of Ships he established primarily as a professional rather than a political body since most members, that most members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Register of Ships come from the ranks of the profession, from the ranks of the shipowners etc.. It was also a very important moment in the development of the Croatian Register of Ships in 1997 when Croatia became a member of the Paris Memorandum, making a commitment to the Croatian Register of Ships to take special care of safety, equipment, crew work on Croatian ships. And since then, it seems practical to me that the Croatian Register of Ships has made a major step in its action. This also contributed to the Croatian government's adoption in 2008 of an action plan that prescribed a number of measures by the ministry and Croatian shipowners to raise the Croatian commercial fleet to a higher level, to rank the best commercial fleets in the world, i.e. to come to the white list of the Paris Memorandum. And it is precisely the role of the Croatian Register of Ships in the process in which Croatia has fulfilled one of the criteria for joining full membership in the European Union in the maritime part, one of the great merits is on the Croatian register of numbers that it has certified, which monitored the quality of the Croatian commercial fleet on the one hand and on the other hand the training of crews, Croatian crews on those same ships. And thus thanks to this action plan and the work of the entire maritime administration in Croatia, the Croatian commercial fleet is today on the white list of the Paris Mamrandum, which means that it is the best quality, most trained fleet in the world and that its ships are in any case highly competitive with other world trade fleets. And in that sense, I think that this should have been said as an introduction to the amendments to this law because this law also allows for further special status of the Croatian Register of Ships and this special status is also the article 2 of this Law of View in the fact that the effectiveness of the draft... ships in national navigation are currently in possession of the Croatian Register of Ships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not only for seaboats, but for ships on inland waterways or waterways, how today's Inland Navigation Act speaks on the one hand and on the other hand clearly on all waterways. It is clear that, as on yachts and boats that are not subject to quadrification under international rules, they will exclusively serve for, are vessels that sail in national navigation. Therefore, on this side of the Act it was contributed that it was secured in a certain way the status of the Croatian Register of Ships. What I believe is not good and what the Government should have done, and that is, at least that was agreed in the process of negotiations in the maritime part of the European Commission, before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full membership in the European Union, the Croatian Register of Ships is certified by the European Commission as a certified, authorised classification institution. According to my knowledge until yesterday, the Croatian Register of Ships has not yet received this except one letter from the European Commission that until this condition is met that the Commission has certified the Croatian Register of Ships as a certified company and institution in the field of the European Union, there will be no problem with the functioning of the Croatian Register of Ships. What I think is still not enough, and I think that the Croatian Register of Ships deserves, deserves that before the entry into full membership of Croatia into full membership of the European Union, such a document should be obtained, thus ensuring the status of the Croatian Register of Ships on the one hand and, on the other hand, all those ships certified by the Croatian Register of Ships, which are in general in the vast majority of Croatian commercial fleet ships, so that they do not have any difficulty in boarding the ports of the European Union. That's why I think the government should have made this one step, that one, that one effort to finally get the Croatian Register of Ships and be certified as a recognised organisation by the European Union. Therefore, all in all the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this Law which will clearly strengthen the Croatian Register of Ships, but primarily calls on the Government to do everything to make the Croatian Register of Ships but primarily calls on the Government to do everything possible to be confirmed by the European Commission as a recognised organisation... whose ships are classified by the Croatian Institute will clearly be safe in all European ports and will be clearly confirmed that they are certified by the standing of a recognised organisation which is the Croatian Register of Ships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in my introduction, I said that the Croatian Register of Ships is a legal follower of the Austrian veritas which is the third-old classification office in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42103	Thank you. A respected colleague, Mladen Novak, stands up to this replica exhibition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42104	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, I absolutely support especially that of your opening part when you have elaborated the entire history of the ship, the ship's register. But I'd like to remind you of the debate on the Maritime Code. At that time, on behalf of the Association of Professional Fishermen, Mare Croaticum, I raised a problem relating to this particular pond of fishermen, where they mentioned that it is controversial that in the law of Article 5, it states that 12 metres is a fishing vessel and 24 metres is a vessel and that they consider it to be 20 metres in order to be a border measure. At that time, I can't argue that it is true but then they are among other things and in their allegation, I believe that you also got it because they got all the board members that exactly the Croatian ship register opposed this by stressing safety, the element of security that is far greater safety if it goes, but it is again bound to some periods of boat examination, but also to the cost of these fishermen. So it is clear that it does not turn out that we have forgotten them too in this story that the Ministry has been promised to approach the new Maritime Code where, at least I hope, they will be kept in mind and their demands and to meet them as much as possible, so here is a reminder for you and for this debate because as I recall in that debate, you were extremely active.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42105	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Novak, yes, I remember the changes and additions to the Maritime Code, the remarks that Croatian fishermen made to us from the parliamentary representatives in the part where they asked that the certification of ships from 12 to 24 metres does not work on the Croatian Register of Ships, but that it was left to port captains, which would simplify the procedure according to their interpretation, and on the other hand, which was not less important and cheaper. And that's the attitude I've stood for for many years now, and here I've had a neighbor, Mr. Petar Baranovic, who has also been from those same positions since the first day. So, I respect the view of Croatian fishermen but it is not a problem whether fishing vessels in Croatia between 12 and 24, at least according to me, certified, reviewed by the Croatian Register of Ships or port captains. In my view, it may even be better for these professional activities to be carried out by a classification service than the problem is that the procedure is complicated, which requires a more frequent review of these fishing vessels on the one hand and the more expensive the procedure. I, too, was in the process of bringing amendments and additions to the Maritime Code to support Croatian fishermen in the part in which we ask for the procedure to be reviewed by their ships and ships to be simplified on the one hand, so that it would not be subject to stricter criteria that other classification societies or other maritime administrations work against these same ships in the European Union. And the third thing, to make it even cheaper, and that's what we as Parliamentarians need to support. And on whether the maritime code will change the definition of the ship and say that the fishing vessel within the meaning of the Maritime Code is a vessel of more than 24 metres, I leave it to the Government to make a decision about it. But at this point I support such an attitude to meet Croatian fishermen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42107	Thank you very much. The HNS club's position will be presented by respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here my colleagues motivated me to report to this topic because when I look at this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships, it is actually clear to the first ball that it is a matter of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, which is already repeated in this hall thousands of times in recent years because we are constantly dealing with this necessary legal work. My colleague Bačić told us about the Croatian Register of Ships of Some Things. A house that has tradition, which has its roots from Austria's Veritas and then beyond, let's not be ashamed of it, the Yugoslav Register of Ships, today the Croatian Register of Ships, the house that has been present in this activity for many years and has all the conditions for doing its job and is undoubtedly doing business according to standards of prescribed conventions and international maritime law and all acts that follow this matter. Repeat in the shortest lines, therefore, the tasks which are based on this bill and in line with European standards are expected by the Croatian Register of Ships that deals with the certification of ships in international navigation, in the national, certification of ships in internal navigation, as well as the classification of ships in the Republic of Croatia, and the desire is of course to create all legal assumptions that the Croatian Register of Ships is to be admitted to the family of European registers and to be fully equal tomorrow on the European Union market. But, of course, my colleagues provoked an old topic, and the subject is so old that when I started it, I didn't have any grays in my head, and today I'm already pretty banged up, so I dedicated myself to them full if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Bacic, who was then a secretary of state for 10 years, persistently trying to explain to the professional public and responsible in all the governments that preceded this one, so here I am now at the opportunity of this government being a real problem and what a life problem is. His non-resolvement stems exclusively from the cruelty of bureaucracy and some habit of rejecting problems from himself, not from solving them. Namely, the complaints that my colleagues are now, and on their behalf and I personally have endured for the past 10 years, are fully founded and realistic. When you look at the conditions in which fishermen work and examine, they register their vessels in the environment, when you look at the conditions that exist in neighbouring Italy which is a fishing country, when you look at the conditions that Slovenian colleagues have, although they are smaller fishing countries, I tend to say that their entire fleet is smaller than the lake or Murter, but however, the conditions in which they work are much more liberal and this does not necessarily lead to a reduction in security. I will try to illustrate it with facts that can and can be numbered in the records of the port captains of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, which is that much more hashful with the worst ending, the loss of a vessel and even sometimes the lives of my colleagues, experienced on ships that are under the Institute of the Sea, means they are treated as a ship and are therefore subject to reviews of the Croatian register while, say, fishing boats that have a lot more, perhaps two or two or a half times more in circulation than these large ships in those in the exact same area in the same conditions of work have fewer accidents. Paradoxically and strangely. The phenomenon is not likely to be conditioned by a poor review of the Croatian registry, so that someone would not understand me. She has some very likely other reasons I wouldn't be dealing with right now in this assembly. However, the fact is that a review that is not in accordance with the Croatian Register of Ships does not necessarily mean a reduction of safety. What do I want to point to? I would like to point out that it would be reasonable and necessary to look at the position in which they are realistically in the cost area and Croatian fishermen, but also Croatian shipmen, not just fishermen. To review the tariffs under which these checks are charged, to look at it in the context of this government to reduce the parafiscal burdens and impose generally on the Croatian economy. We'd cut the OCFG, the FZ as it's called for the woods, we'd cut by water, we'd cut all kinds of loads. But no one thought of the Croatian Register of Ships. No one wants to know the truth that you don't need the same inspection regime of a 15-and-a-half or 16-metre fishing boat and, say, a 2,000-ton boat that drives, I don't know about a Mediterranean tree or a general cargo or anything. It's not necessary. A whole series of norms prescribed are unnecessary and generates additional costs, complicates life, creates congestion. It is abnormal for a fishing boat to be remounted for the conditions and requirements required by the people of the Croatian Register to be withdrawn for months. The ship that's on land in the remont doesn't work. That's the kind of ship that loses. Loss creates a ship's collapse, and the ship's collapse creates unemployment. It's a very logical sequence. People, for God's sake, let's make things simple! Once again I thank my colleagues from all the parties who have opened this topic and have given me the opportunity to once again know which time I try to open this topic seriously at the level of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. I urge Mr. Deputy Minister to take this seriously, not to ignore the fact that in our neighbouring countries, EU countries there is a significantly different, more liberal and cheaper approach to this issue. And I pray that outside the context of this law, it is not the subject of this law, but I ask that this topic be taken very seriously and that people who are in a very difficult situation the entire fishing sector is in a difficult situation to meet and do what is realistically possible and what is really necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42109	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42110	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 388. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you, please score. I find that it is unanimous with 102 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42111	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is - Final proposal for a law implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 387. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Honorable Snježana Spain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42112	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Mss of Parliament MPs and gentlemen of Parliament. The law is adopted in order to comply with EU legislation, i.e. to fully ensure the implementation of Council Regulation 834 of 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products. This law lays down the competent authority, the tasks of the competent authority, the official control and the manner of handling of persons authorised to carry out official controls, and administrative and infringement provisions. The ministry's obligations regarding the delivery of the report and the notification to the European Commission have also been prescribed. Council Regulation 834 of 2007 clearly defines the objectives, principles and rules for organic production, which seek to establish a sustainable management system with respect to natural systems, as well as the conservation of soil, water, plants and animals by taking care of their balance. It also contributes to a high level of biodiversity, responsible use of energy and natural resources while respecting high standards of animal welfare, and production of high quality products. Environmental production therefore plays a double role in society in which it provides a particular market that meets the demand of consumers for organic products and also contributes to the protection of the environment and animal welfare as well as rural development. Given the fact that by joining the EU, we become part of the EU's single market for organic producers, changes are taking place in terms of product labelling. Products must be marked by an EU eco-label which has not so far been the case with which the area where agricultural raw materials has been grown must be indicated. In order to avoid fraud and possible confusion among consumers on the origin of EU products or on the origin of products not originating in the EU when the EU eco-label is used, consumers should be informed about the area of farming of the agricultural raw materials of which the product concerned consists. In addition to the mandatory EU eco-label, the use of a national eco-label is allowed. This law therefore regulates the use of a national sign. In order to protect consumers and competition, the concepts of organic, biological, ecological, and abbreviations bio and eco are prohibited from marking, presenting and commercial documents for products not manufactured in accordance with this law, i.e. with the regulation with which we are harmonising, which is 834 from 2007. Certain changes also take place for importers. Imports of organic products from third countries will be implemented in accordance with the conditions regulated by the EU acquis, and this law regulates the obligations of the ministry to issue authorisations for imports of organic products from third countries. The law regulates the conditions for the authorisation of control bodies which exercise professional control over organic production and obligations to the Ministry. The safety and quality of food is a basic prerequisite for winning not only the domestic but also the global market, so the organic product and the consumer control and certification system gives consumers security and confidence in the overall system of production. The law also regulates the establishment of a Committee on Organic Production for the purposes of monitoring, above all, the development of organic production and the making of expert proposals and opinions. The interest in organic production in the last few years has increased significantly, so in 2012 a total of 1528 producers who produce at 31903 hectares of agricultural areas accounted for 2.45% in the total agricultural area used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42113	I thank the Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Petar Baranovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate. The HNS Club will certainly support this law. It is also again a matter of compliance with the EU acquis, in particular with the adoption of the substance incorporated in Council Regulation No. 834/2007. What is the newspaper of the Deputy Minister has apostrophe of the introduction of a sign for agricultural production, i.e. for the organic agricultural product, in its opening presentation. The way in which organic agricultural products are advertised is also prescribed and the powers of the ministry to decide on the supervisory authorities are prescribed. It is also prescribed that the Agency for Agricultural Production shall keep a register on entities in organic agricultural production and run the Register of deleted organic producers. It is also the authority of the ministry to approve of the possible imports of organic products from third countries. Environmental agriculture is an important segment and segment in agricultural production that definitely has a future, it has its own attractiveness because trends are such that demand for such products is noticeable on the market and the chance is precisely small countries such as Croatia to specialize in agricultural production in this case with well-organised organic agricultural production imposed on the European market. Therefore, not only this law but also the future legal matter in this regard, as well as the implementation of the agriculture ministry's own policy should be directed in that direction. HNS will advocate all positive measures and, of course, support all laws that will go in sequence after this and this. What we have noticed by reading this law is a technical failure, according to us, that we have installed in a short amendment on which the proposer will be manifested until the law is passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42115	Thank you. I would like to invite my esteemed colleague, Djurdzica Sumrak, to introduce us to the positions of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished Deputy Minister with an associate. Well, here's a esteemed colleague and a colleague of mine, as usual in our assembly, we talked about it yesterday, and maybe we'll talk about it every day. In my view, among other things, this and the definition of agriculture and forestry are one very important point, which is the point relating to the harmonisation of the Regulation of the European Community and this proposal for a law implementing Council Regulation No 834/2007. on organic production. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States and therefore in force on the organic production and labelling of organic products from 2010 even though it is in line with Council Regulation (EC) No 834/2007. It stops working. Before I have time, I would like to say a few words in general why organic production is important to us, that it is not just a philosophy of life and in some ways when it started to deal with organic production it was. What I know from my experience in work and especially with some environmental producers in the Zagreb area, but also in the area of Slavonia organic agriculture, they began to deal with the masquerade of young people who had graduated from some universities. What delights me, I've already said that to me once, will you please just give me a little bit, architectural and agronomic, and then young people decided to do one production that they realized would be profitable, just as well in the beekeeping area. As far as all legislative regulations are concerned, I must say that they were much stricter than they were in the EU. So all the legislation, regardless of what we did in 2010, brought it into line with this regulation before that, was much stricter as it was much more stringent and as far as conventional agriculture was concerned. Is that good or bad? I think personally it's okay if he's introduced a row. As for livestock, we can be proud because we haven't known any zoonoses in years, and that's why we're very easy in 2011. 5 years, so I have to say unsustainable, but here's the surveillance we get permission to export pig meat and game meat, all because our veterinary inspection was doing its job, and so was our legislation. For example, I was in Austria next to Vienna on an ecological property with environmental producers, and we were all very surprised together in one big space was oil press, honey fillings, teas that were not allowed in us, to respect certain hygiene conditions. What our producers were looking for, and this is a domestic sale, and given that such a strict regulation was not simply possible, it was not possible because there was concern about the hygiene conditions of production and just a few years ago rules were adopted and some products such as honey, such as cheese, such as some other products, so the responsibility is now on the manufacturer, inspections are and which the product will be controlled and we have to trust that manufacturer. Organic production is a special system of sustainable agriculture and forestry, which includes plant and animal farming, feed production of raw materials and natural fibres, and processing of primary products, and includes all eco-economic and socially justified production methods, procedures and systems with the prescribed use of fertilisers, plant protection products and animals, in accordance with internationally adopted norms and principles. For the first time, the Act on organic production of agricultural and food products was adopted on 31 January 2001. We remember those years when someone was working on organic production very strangely without talking about dynamic productions and others. I've been thinking about the witch type. And in reality, organic agriculture is a partner for the sustainable future of Croatia, it has a strategic meaning for the development of rural areas. This is also the conclusion that the Government followed in February 2011 the adoption of the Environmental Agriculture Development Action Plan for the period 2011 to 2016. At that time, the competent ministry established and we can say recognised organic agriculture as an important entrepreneurial concept, so the aim of the APREP is to accelerate development primarily to ensure the supply of the domestic market and then also to produce for exports. It was also also announced that by 2016, about 8% of agricultural land will be around 90 thousand hectares. And the list of eco-producers was to increase from a thousand to 5,000 economies. The results achieved in the meantime can't exactly give us some optimism. In 2011, a total of 1.1 million hectares of farmland under eco-growing were 32.036 hectares and 2.9%, respectively. According to the 2012 data, 27 thousand 180 eco-hectares were reported and there are some 1,000, 700 eco-producers. This difference amounts to nearly 4000 less processed eco-hectares in 2012 compared to 2011, which illustrates that the projections of the action plan should be achieved more quickly. With conventional agriculture, Croatia cannot say it freely, nor can it dream of a fair competition with European farmers. In organic food production, however, the situation is reversed. In this segment, not only because of the exceptional geographical-climate advantages but also from the non-polluting industry and the fact that large areas have grown into weeds and have not been processed for decades, we can freely say that Croatia has the potential as no member of the EU. In addition, organic farming also brings a better profit compared to the price of food from conventional cultivation. And on the Croatian market, this food of organic production is only 30% more expensive, while it is up to 80% in European and Western European countries. The annual value of the global market for organic products is estimated to exceed around 45 billion euros, nearly half a billion euros in the European market. The strongest market within European borders for the consumption of organic food is the German market with a value of around 6.6 billion euros. The fact that Europe's market imports over 50% of the annual organic food, which is worth more than 10 billion euros, must be a major challenge for both the government and the Croatian eco-agrarian. A million is a hectare of abandoned agricultural land only owned by the state. In this way, Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina also claimed, announcing a major land reform that would put raw areas into office, create 50,000 new jobs and generate income of at least 7 million kuna per year. As many acres of it are put into service in the meantime, we don't know it, I hope we get a report like that. What is the position of the RES will, of course, be seen when we see how the action plan is implemented by 2016, whether these 8% hectares will actually be realized, which would be very good and 5 thousand economies. How come... We'll see. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that they are in the same interest as all of us in Croatia that this segment of organic production really takes its place in agriculture as well as in the Croatian economy. For example, in Austria there are 20 surfaces, 20% surface area under eco-production, in the Czech Republic 11, Italy 9, Slovenia 8, Spain 7. Of the 16 actions envisaged by the action plan so far, only 6 have been implemented in whole or in part. It is evident from the performances and statements of the designers of agrarian policy that, for the time being, eco-agriculture is not yet a particular priority and a serious alternative to conventional production in addressing the ecological, economic, social problems of Croatian agriculture and rural areas. Indeed, we can say that eco-agricultural is part of Croatia's agricultural policy first and foremost because it is part of the Brussels package. I wish that one day it wasn't like that and that our organic farming and we can be really happy and that's what my colleague Baranovic was talking about, but I think that here and on the committee of colleagues who are talking know what they're saying is a very important area for the Republic of Croatia. As for this compliance with the regulation, I won't repeat it, the deputy was already talking about what's going on here. Of course, it is not a newspaper that the eco and bio could not be used, nor could they have been used before because it was banned in those products and what was, of course, happening on the market for commercial purposes. So they wrote, I don't know, eco plums and they were in some kind of plastic old packaging or eco stuff and everything. And the law came out, and it was known and strictly to what it could be eco and was. And now, of course, we're harmonising this one more time with this regulation. I hope that this commission that has been in the same way so far, I hope that the minister will choose the best people to be in that commission and will really protect the interests of environmental producers. Something else that is in this Regulation and this Regulation and by adopting this regulation are not even all the rules anymore, they should be made new rules, I'm sorry for the paperwork, but here it is when our discussions are quick, quick. But I'd like to say next. Yes, there is an implementing act in the European Union, i.e. detailed rules covering the area of organic agricultural production Regulation 889/2008. and I am now interested in how we will regulate this area in the Republic of Croatia and have we in reality prepared ourselves for this implementing act which is related to this regulation and why we did not have it now. And I'm still interested in nothing bad, but of course we'll be in HDZ, so who wouldn't support a law like this really. And we are rooting, I would like to know why this Regulation and this Regulation are not mentioned in the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2013 which was adopted at the meeting on 8 February 2013. Well, here it is, I'm asking for the future to be a little more precise and a little bit more detailed on everything's report. To see what needs to be attached to this Regulation because we're bringing this in now and how we're going to spend, we don't know, that's what I don't think is right. Thank you very much and we will support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42117	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, Ivica Mandic, stands up to this replica exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42118	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues of the Sumrak, you mentioned the Committee on Organic Production and the action plan on organic production in your debate. And you and I know well what organic production means, which are its values and what is lacking in organic production. What you did not highlight enough in your debate, and I think it was necessary, although in the most part I agree with you, that the wider social public should be more popularized by organic production, that it should be spoken more about its value, especially as environmental production in the Republic of Croatia is still much more acceptable at prices than in Western European countries. What is important and I don't think it's a colleague of Baranovic's, and you didn't point out that it's very important and important for the Committee on Organic Production, which has several important functions of promotion, promotion, monitoring, advice, expert opinions. And I believe with the quality selection of the ecological commission that the results of organic production, on the condition that these rules on the popularity and importance of organic production are accepted in the sustainability of the entire agricultural production, are very important. I'm glad you agree to accept such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42119	The replica matches the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, colleague Baranovic, in my debate I have written on one page and perhaps what is very important I did not say, but what I really think is that consumers are what you say, increasingly interested. Why are they interested, because we are increasingly aware and concerned about our health and health of our children is indeed in our interest and our consumers in Croatia are increasingly reaching out to organic products, with the fact that this trust between the organic producer and the consumer must exist, which is precisely for that consumer to be sure of the certification of the product, be safe in this eco-label that now receives another additional E mark, means the EU, that the product originating in a Member State of the European Union, outside of the Member State or is partly in the Member State, and one part outside of the Member State may be, but if this is an equally certified product of organic production from a third country. And I think that you have also touched that this is not enough here for two debates in front of the club and one replica to say in reality everything that makes it important in tourism for ecological agriculture, but also for the preservation and sustainable development, preservation and good climate and healthy countries, as well as healthy people. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42121	The right to the closing word is now received by Deputy Minister of Agriculture Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42122	Thank you very much. I'll do it again, regarding the payment and the organic production. Applications for organic production were submitted until 15.5 this year under the old law which was in force and will be paid out of the national budget. It is another harmonisation with the rules of the European Union, which is that from next year, organic production will be financed through another fund called the AFRD, or a programme intended for rural development, and that is why we started earlier. The commission, which has members from organic production producers, from county representatives, from competent institutions, institutes and colleges, was formed on two levels precisely for the reason that, given the importance of organic production, good sublegal acts are being prepared. We plan and prepare environmental production guides for individual sectors in order to prepare as high as possible for the following year when we are hoping to submit our applications as part of the rural development programme. So all activities are carried out by the Ministry in time, all activities are coordinated with both producers and counties and local self-government units and with competent institutions. I thank you for your support, and this opportunity would only once again point out to agricultural producers that in organic production the amount of support is extremely substantial because, with the basic payment for multi-annual plantations, 4000 kn per hectare is obtained, and for the rest of the plants another 2500, means if the team is engaged. Of course they have... throughout the year, but production and sales are secured and placed on the market as you yourself said is extremely good because consumers are increasingly aware of the healthy food and environment we live in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42123	I thank the Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42124	Final proposal for a Law implementing Council Regulation No 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 387. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the HNS. I ask that on behalf of the motionary, Snježana Spanish Deputy Minister of Agriculture be declared. Deputy Deputy Amendment No 1 to Article 21. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42125	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42126	Thank you very much for becoming an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42127	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42128	An explanation for the respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42129	Thank you. Official control of organic production should be carried out by the agricultural inspector for organic production for the reasons that the same must be made aware of the legislation regulated by organic production and further bound by the schedule at the place of work of the agricultural inspector for organic production. We therefore believe that in the final proposal of the law there should be an indication that official controls are carried out by agricultural organic production because within the inspection sector there are currently jobs specialised in certain areas of agricultural production such as: agricultural inspector for livestock, wine growing, plant protection, food quality, seed and fruit material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42130	Thank you, too. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42131	Your Honor, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42132	Petar Baranovic withdraws the amendment. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, 99 votes for the adoption of the Law implementing Council Regulation No. 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42133	We move to - Final proposal for a law implementing Regulation No. 1082/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the European Group for Territorial Cooperation, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 395 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Minister of Management, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The regulation you quoted was therefore adopted for the purpose of overcoming obstacles to territorial co-operation, establishing cooperation instruments at Community level for the creation of Community cooperation groups with legal personality status called the European Group for Territorial Cooperation. As a secondary source of EU law, the Regulation will be directly and fully applicable in the Republic of Croatia on the day of accession. The proposal for this law is a mechanism for implementing the Regulation. This is therefore a new form of legal personality that can be established with the need to establish cross-border cooperation activities. The objective, i.e. the purpose of the establishment, is to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion. In this respect, Croatia is able to use the full potential of the EGF based on the implementation of cross-border transnational and inter-regional cooperation activities. EU proposals for legislation for the next financial period 2014-2020 promote the use of European Structural and Investment Funds in the context of macro-regional strategies, and therefore the tasks are primarily limited to the implementation of programmes and territorial cooperation projects co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund or the Cohesion Fund, in the light of the macro-regional cooperation in which the Republic of Croatia participates. The implementation of the EU Strategy for the Danube region is, among other things, based on the existing programme of transnational cooperation "South-East Europe", while the implementation of the EU Strategy for the Adriatic-Ionian Region, whose preparation is being organised by the Republic of Croatia, should be based on the Transnational Co-operation Programme "South-East gateway" and the Italian-Croatian cross-border programme that are being developed. The proposed law provides for legal persons from the Republic of Croatia who may be members of the EGTS, which are the Republic of Croatia, the counties, cities, municipalities, public rights persons within the meaning of the second subparagraph of Article 6 of Directive 2004/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on the coordination of procedures for the conclusion of public works contracts, public procurement contracts, and public service contracts, and national associations of municipalities, cities and counties. The proposed law lays down the competent authority for the receipt of notification of the intention to participate in the European Group for Territorial Cooperation and the competent authority for the granting of the necessary authorisation. As the competent authority for receipt of the notification, the Central Authority of the State Administration is designated as responsible for the political system and the system of local and regional self-government. It's at the moment the Ministry of Administration. Therefore, the Ministry of Administration is also the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation of this law. The Co-operation Mode is defined in a way that, when considering and assessing compliance with relevant rules, the Ministry shall request an opinion from the central authorities of the national administration responsible for regional development and EU funds, as well as external and European affairs on the intention to participate in the European Group for Territorial Cooperation and Proposal for Conventions and Statutes, i.e. on a proposal for amendments to the Convention, significant amendments to the Statutes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia may also refuse approval if it considers that such participation does not comply with the provisions of the Regulation or the provisions of the law or because such participation does not comply with the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and such a decision is therefore subject to the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court. Also, the bill stipulates that the State Audit Office is the competent authority for the control of public funds management, as well as for the financial supervision of the European Group for Territorial Co-operation with its head office in the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the use of EU funds, the provisions governing the supervision of the use of such funds shall apply. The draft law prescribes the legal status of the European Group for Territorial Co-operation, based in the Republic of Croatia. It is a public institution which is entered in the court register and which acquires legal personality by enrolment. So we propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42135	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ Club, the honourable representative Andrej Plenkovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Before I refer to the topic of today's agenda, therefore, I must say that I came back from Strasbourg late tonight to be here today to discuss the Law on the Cooperation of the Government and the Parliament on European Affairs. But given our lively practice changes the agenda instead of the announced Thursday that the debate was yesterday. As far as I am aware, almost none of the current observers in the European Parliament have been at the debate in the first reading. I think that's really bad. While we advocated yesterday that great support would be given to the first member of the European Commission from Croatia, Mr Mimica, we could not discuss in the Assembly this important law which I believe is in force that this disgrace would not have occurred yesterday with the vote of no confidence to the EU Court of Auditors candidate from the Republic of Croatia, Neven Matas, who was totally uninformed and unprepared to speak to the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament in a way where with good faith representatives from all groups of the European Parliament came to support it, and given the unpreparedness, it turned out that man got a negative vote yesterday. That's not good. If we had previously the Co-operation Act, it would have been very likely that this candidate would have been here in front of the Parliament and he could have been more prepared for that debate. It's connected to my colleagues on this subject. It's very connected. Because that law is crucial even when the minister represents this law today. [[President: Well, connect well, Mr. Representative./]] There's been a working group in this law for three years. The text we received in no single word mentions that, 15 days ago, the Council, together with Parliament, reached a consensus on the revision of the existing regulation. Read a little coworker and co-worker who's so grumbled that you say something has nothing to do with this. It's all right. To say and to recognise that the government sees what is happening at EU level on the European Group for Territorial Co-operation Regulation at this time, then this law in its introductory elements should have the essential features relating to the revision, so perhaps some of those solutions on which there is a consensus at EU level should be included in this current law. Also, I expected the minister to say something about how much in practice there are European Groups for Territorial Co-operation in Europe after this Regulation was adopted in 2006. From 2008 to 2012, such groups were established over 40 in EU countries. They are a new form of cooperation that allows units of local and regional self-government to form legal persons in a way that can attract funds to those border areas that have a number of common elements and that would allow more significant economic development and social cohesion between countries or regions and cities involved. I also expected the minister to mention what Croatian regions are so far within the existing legal framework of the Regulation that enables and cooperates with non-Member States and from the Republic of Croatia have associated status or at least contacts with some of the existing European Groups for Territorial Cooperation and through these forms seek to help their own economic development. This is a confirmation of the thesis we spoke in the European Parliament's election campaign that the European topics are local because it is precisely our colleagues from Međimurje, our colleagues from Osijek, our colleagues from even a few counties dealing with the transformation of the initiative on the European transport corridor from Baltic and the Adriatic include the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the Karlovak County and the Varazdin County are on their way to form or join several European Groups for Territorial Co-operation. These are all elements that I am convinced should be kept in mind when such legal proposals are made, when they come before parliamentary deputies who have heard the only aspect of the Ministry of Administration at this time. I understand the logic of the Ministry of Administration chosen as one of the ministries in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which deals with whether or not they will approve the content of certain statutes, or individual future conventions of the European Group for Territorial Co-operation, but I am sure that you had an inter-resor group in which there were also those dealing with external and European affairs, those dealing with regional development and European funds, and one of these people may have read this here almost 200-year-old-page thick monitoring report on European territorial cooperation groups prepared by the Committee of the Regions, and on whose content in terms of the quality of these groups has no words. So if he read it, dear Minister, then he could have said something about it to the MPs and let's see practically what kind of legal framework it is and what that legal framework in practice allows. I am saying this because I have been following this topic for a number of years, and the way it has been presented in the House today in my opinion is another example of an unfinished approach to European topics that are shown in a series of examples from the current government and which in some ways worries me that you will come to us with the text in June which was recently in the Government, and that in May the European Parliament and the Council adopt a political agreement on the revision of the existing regulation and that there is no letter in this document. So, there are services in diplomacy that follow these topics, there is a mission in Brussels, I am sure that at least one of the colleagues working there noticed what was going on in the European Parliament, that he might have listened to what the rapporteur on the subject of the European Group on Territorial Cooperation Joachim Zeller spoke on the Committee on Regional Cooperation of the European Parliament, that perhaps there was little someone sitting in individual formations of the Council of the Republic in the last year and a half as an observer also followed that topic, and then all of these elements could come into the draft of this law that is before us today. This is what I'm saying to the ministers with good intentions. The goal is for all of us to use all the legal instruments created over the past few years to make more effective use of EU cohesion policy funds. The goal is also to support the central level of government and help county levels, urban levels to participate in the European dimension of Croatian policy. This Regulation and this legal framework are precisely that instrument. And that is why it would be useful if you had said something about the European Group on Territorial Cooperation of the PANON on Osijek, if you had said something about this initiative chaired by the Karlovac County over the past few months. There was a recent meeting organised by the Primorje-Gorski County in October, it seems to me exactly with all the regions of the Polish regions and through the Czech regions and the Slovenian, Hungarian, who want to create a new transport corridor that would relieve the traffic currently going through Germany, which would connect this so-called so-called traffic corridor. The route 65 Baltic and Adriatic has essentially exceptional economic and developmental effects for Croatia. It seems to me that it would be useful for us to have received a review of the specific possibilities in this bill. It is not known to me whether you have held certain consultations on this subject with local and regional self-government bodies already engaged in practice for the past few years or not because I cannot read it from this. And I would also like to know what the view of the ministry is on these several new innovative elements which are the content of a new revised regulation that will significantly simulate the possibility and the establishment of the EGTS will no longer need the explicit approval of your body, so the Ministry of Administration, but there will be a practice and rule of six months. If the competent authority does not react within 6 months, it shall indicate that the content of the Convention establishing the bodies of local and regional self-government has been tacitly approved. Generally speaking, I think that international co-operation between local and regional self-government units is an extremely important aspect, it is also regulated by the Charter of Local and Regional Self-Government, whose party is Croatia. It has been enabling in today's Europe especially since Croatia will be a member of a brand-new kind of operational engagement, a brand-new approach to EU funds. We will, of course, support this law at this stage, but I believe that after the adoption of this regulation, the Government will come with a new law already within a few months, since this is just the Law on the Implementation of the Regulation and somehow acts as if you had agreed to take a previous step among yourselves, if we hadn't missed out on July 1st without a legal basis and that you left the contents of the economic social character and this experienced, analytical part that has been done so far, and that I'm not talking about upgrading the legal framework for another occasion. I appreciate the government's work in this regard, but I also appreciate the role of the Croatian Parliament and appreciate my own information on certain topics that are not small, which is not since yesterday and which is still expecting a higher standard of information and suggestions when the government brings it before the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42137	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for questioning. Does he want a proposaling representative? No, I don't. It was a replica, it was a single replica of a respected representative of Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42138	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Plenkovic, I've been listening to your debate and I'd like to tell you something. You were gone yesterday because you were away and you were right about what business you were in Strasbourg. Yesterday we warned the MPs here when it came to the proposal of the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs and when it came to the proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we also stressed that it would be very good to have these two points, and that the representatives of the Government and the representatives of the proposings also appeared. And equally, it would be useful and good if you were our Europarliamentaries both on the one hand and on the other hand here and you could have given us so I would say in some way some instructions but also tell us what all of this and this harmonisation of these laws means. You well know fellow Plenkovic that he existed before the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations and that today's Minister, Mrs Vesna Pusic, was the chairman of the committee. We also had a parliamentary monitoring committee for the Committee on European Integration. We don't have it anymore, and yesterday was a very interesting and long debate, and I'm sorry you weren't here, and I'm sorry because some assessments and qualifications have been passed and I don't think they would have been accepted with approval in the EU. Well, here's what I'd like you to do, since you've had a long experience at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but here's our monitor, and now our European representative, to tell me what you think is normal when two laws like this are passed that there are no representatives of the government and that we can't get any explanation on the subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42139	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42140	Dear colleagues, twilight, thank you for this replica. The truth is that by continuing this debate, we would get away from this topic which is the proposal for a point of the agenda, and since I am both a lawyer and I respect the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and I will not abuse the minutes I have. But I really think that one general observation about the conduct of the agenda and the dynamics of putting the points of MPs for very objective reasons rarely brings into an unenviable position where the points are listed in a way that is not very elegant, is not likable, I don't even think it is meant in terms of the existence of what is called a democratic debate on a particular important topic for the Croatian public. I am, of course, sorry that a large number of us weren't here yesterday. I'm saying I got the impression that this debate is going to be today, but it's behind us now, and I guess we'll be better off maybe in the second reading, and I believe that the legislative proposal will be better quality. It wasn't a suggestion to be more quality. The fact that there were no representatives of the Government at the Parliament's meeting on such an important topic as to the relationship between the Government and the Parliament or the control of the Parliament over the activities of the Government in European affairs is at least bizarre but the responsibility of the one who was not there is, although they probably had a better opportunity to come from Mark's square to Mark's square than from Strasbourg to Mark's square. But it's behind us now. I would like this law that we are adopting today to encourage units of local and regional self-government to branch, more concrete, more comforting cooperation with the same units from other particularly neighbouring countries because the opportunities that are economically open to people living in these units are extremely large if this is used well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42141	Thank you, too. On behalf of the motionary, the final word of the minister of the administration, the respected Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42142	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to be brief. I think it's time to answer some of the questions that MP Plenkovic raised. So we have followed and introduced, of course, the fact that there is an ongoing debate on the revision of this Regulation. However, as we wanted to avoid sanctions that could be exposed if we hadn't passed this law, then we decided to propose such a law. So, of course, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development, as well as representatives of the National Associations of Cities and municipalities, participated in the draft law, and therefore this was the execution of one obligation. And I agree with you there may be an opportunity to say more about this, but then there will be opportunities when we are working on the basis of the revision of the regulation to amend or new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42143	Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1082/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the European Group for Territorial Cooperation (EGTS), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 395. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that it is unanimous with 102 votes for the adopted Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1082/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the European Group for Territorial Cooperation in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we would move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a law on hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 366 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. These are the provisions of Articles 144 to 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. On behalf of Proposer Ivan Vrdoljak, Minister of Economy. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42145	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. You have before you the Proposal for a Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. And here you will allow me only in a few minutes to present to you why we are passing a new law, what is the situation in Croatian hydrocarbon exploitation, and how exactly does this bill regulate the issue of hydrocarbon exploitation. We go into two readings to discuss well and open a wide public debate on the best possible solution, although I think we're on track to have it on our desks today. So why are we passing a new law? We passed the Mining Act a few months ago, recently adopted in the Parliament, but due to changes in the economic environment and the growing interest of foreign investors to explore gas exploitation, but also oil, there was a need to regulate these specific issues, in fact with lex specialis, with a special law. We also took into account the long-standing world practices adopted in many developed countries of the world, and even the success of their economy based on the exploitation of oil and gas, for example Norway as well as the attitudes of countries of course of the European Union, as well as the experience of many investors in this business and business. The law will enable the state to manage these natural resources and to give investors legal certainty and flexibility in the realisation of projects. Now that's the current situation in Croatia. Croatia unquestionably has the natural resources that we possess, are not small, but what has been happening in the last six years? We're dropping oil from 700 2000 cubic metres in 2007 to 511 thousand cubic metres last year. The amount of gas obtained was slightly more than three billion feet [3 billion m] in space six years ago to 2 billion and 100 million cubic meters. Croatian gas production satisfies about 65% of Croatian consumption, of course our oil production is far less percentage, somewhere below 20% of our oil demand. And from the Adriatic you get about a billion and 200 million cubic metres of gas on our 19 wells as far as we have today. Just for comparison, and later I'm going to get a little bit more on that, the Italians from their Adriatic wells are getting now, so last year 5 billion, just over 5 billion cubic metres of gas. Until 10 years ago, they were at level 12, 15 billion. Total consumption and consumption in Croatia is cca 3 billion cubic metres, something fell and is now little below. And the Italian side, while they spent 3 billion and produced 2 to 3 from the same Adriatic, exploited up to 15 billion in the 1990s. 60 hydrocarbon exploitation fields have been approved in Croatia so far, 13... The area of hydrocarbons, 57 exploitation fields are located in the mainland part of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From that, only in one exploitation field is stored gas in geological structures and... Gas storage and 3 hydrocarbon exploitation fields are located in an epicontinental belt, meaning on the Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a total of 19 platforms on the Adriatic, I will again compare the Italian side, 180 platforms are located on the Italian side of our Adriatic Sea. In Croatia, we currently have only one concessionary of the INA, or concessionary of the underground gas warehouse, which the PSP company Around as a company of the daughter of Plinacro today. The interest of Croatia is of course the opening of the market, attracting the world's largest companies and oil gas business in... Researching the exploitation of hydrocarbons and this law gives them... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to enter the Croatian market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most important issues that this Law regulates, first and foremost, were the great rock of interference over the years, and this was the introduction of a single procedure for the issue of permits and the conclusion of contracts and thus the direct acquisition of concessions. The issue of permits and the conclusion of contracts will be carried out on the basis of only one public tender in a single procedure. After that they are clearly stated and defined the obligations and rights of both investors and the Government in this Act, property is my particular wish to highlight. The ownership of the entire documentation and all hydrocarbon-related data belongs exclusively to the Republic of Croatia. There we had a lot of trouble clearing up ownership over documentation between... The Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Act defines that all documentation belongs exclusively to the Republic of Croatia. The investor, of course, is able to use land and underground to perform mining work with a unique, simpler and more efficient process of solving property legal relations. It's a long line of years and a day INI today and where it wants to invest is a pretty big problem solving property-legal relations. Of course, it's defined by signing the contract and it's a bonus and a fee that the investor will have. The law lays down the highest standards in the protection of nature and the environment, the clear obligation of investors to comply with all applicable rules relating to the protection of nature and the environment, the health and safety of people, the property and the recovery of the area where mining works were carried out and our standards that we are now setting are again going to be compared to neighbours greater than on the Italian side. My colleagues even used examples when individual platforms came to reconstruction to move from Italian side to Croatian side of exploitation, so they need far greater amounts of money to actually comply with the Croatian standards that exist. And it's good that it is, and we'll keep it. The law lays down the establishment of the Agency for Hydrocarbons and its competence is within the competence of the Ministry of Economy to decide on the establishment of a state-owned company where the underlying activity would be to investigate the exploitation of energy mineral raw materials. But it's only after the investigative stages are over. So when the explosion takes place that we have a company that would be in... the contract of division of production with the companies that are going to be exploited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And perhaps, in conclusion, to point out that this law gives Croatia a chance to actually take advantage of the greatest ecological and business standards we have. We have investors, the law allows legal certainty to invest considerable financial resources in research projects, tens of millions of dollars in individual platforms and wells only in research works that the investor must invest in numerous wells that he will have during his research. And finally, but not less importantly, it is actually the fact that the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens, after the completion of the research work, when the exploitation takes place, if we have a forecast of gas reserves not only on the Adriatic, but also on oil on the Croatian mainland and gas, have new technologies that can go deeper, which can better exploit the wealth that we have today, that we can easily turn into that basic desire into an energy strategy, which is in the energy... of this part of Europe. In one centre that will also give Croatia a basic position through transport, storage and a large amount of energy, especially gas, which will give the Croatian economy an absolute security of the supply of energy and as cheap as possible the price of that energy. We had a period when the energy price significantly ruined our economy's competitiveness. Now it is improving, we have opened the market, but still given the quantities we exploit, we are heavily dependent on global developments and we will never be completely independent of global situations, but if we exploit in our area the amount of far greater gas than we need for the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens then it is to assume that we will have and no country in the environment today is there, then it is to assume that we will have the cheapest price of gas in the region. This is, of course, a long-term project, which is something that this government is doing that in 5, 6, 7 years the Croatian economy will have its competitiveness. The effects of this will be seen in the phase of research with a series of activities during the research which, of course, concessionaries will be able to activate numerous Croatian companies, but the real effects will come after a long, long number of years. We should go once, and I think this law that is before you respects world's best practices and environmental and business, and I suggest you accept it. Of course, we are open to all suggestions that will come through the debate and consider coming to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42146	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42147	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. This is certainly an extremely important law, perhaps the importance of this law can be compared to the Law on Privatization of the One of '93. I hope that the application of this law will be much better than the '93 privatisation. A year. This law defines in the long term whether Croatia will maintain its sovereignty in an energy sense. When the proposal for a Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons appeared in public, praises and lusts were paid. Those who praise the law and praise the law are filled with great expectations, and praise the law mostly by lawyers and say that it is an excellently committed law. However, the problem begins at the moment when it is started by experts in the field of oil and gas exploitation. And they say it's a legal-made law, but they see many traps in the law. Some go so far as to say that the law is so bad that it can't be fixed, it should start over. The description of the situation because of the ambiguity in this description raises several extremely important issues. Like who today has concessions for the exploitation of gas and oil in Croatia? On the basis of what contract does he have these concessions for exploitation? On what basis did he receive these contracts? And on what part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia did he get that contract? We know that all these concessions have expired and the government has extended without competition for the next five years. But those five years are up, so I'm curious about why gas and oil are exploited. Article 67 is interesting. It mentions the procedures for granting a concession. These procedures will be completed under the old laws said in the law, which is logical. But what are these procedures, according to which orders are being made, who has requested concessions. We know that geologists have divided Croatia into blocks, into a block of panon, Dinaridi 1, 2, 3 and 4, to the northern Adriatic, the Central Adriatic and the southern Adriatic. The blocks are for us laymen, we've been taught by experts, they're restricting meridians and parallels, so they're the right shape. Croatia has not established those blocks. Articles 42 and 43 speak all research data are owned by Croatia and all of these data owned by Croatia are classified, so these data are classified. By selling these secrets, Croatia lost energy sovereignty or part of energy sovereignty. Here's an example of that. Example one, it's Syria. It's Hayan Block. While Croatia had INA, Naftaplin was researched. INA Naftaplin was also researched in Hajan bloc, and that block is divided into Đihar, Almahr and Palmira fields. In these three fields, our experts have found large supplies of 80 million tons of oil equivalent. Those oil supplies were estimated at $23 billion. It was a secret discovery, it wasn't supposed to be published anywhere, and it started talking about it only after INA was sold to MOL for 505 million dollars. The question is whether MOL knew about data from Syria, whether the Croatian government knew about these data on Syria-Croatian Hajan. It's also an interesting link between MOL and INA Naftaplin, which extends far before MOL bought the INA for Naftaplin. The MOL for INA Naftaplin on that block provided geological research services, so it is unlikely that MOL did not know how valuable this field was. Here's another example, now we're moving from Syria to the Adriatic and the northern Adriatic, which is far closer to us. The North Adriatic is divided into fields of Isabella, Edina and INA jeep and Marica field. And this is about co-ownership as well as in Syria and 50-50 with the Italians. It was estimated to be 11.6 billion cubic metres of gas in these fields. So far, only 40 billion cubic metres of gas have been exploited on the Anamari well. The question is who had the correct assessment data, an estimate of 20 times smaller, although experts warned it was underrated capacity. The government has accepted those assessments that are significantly lower than the real situation. What I'm saying is important because of Article 22, which speaks of a unique process of research and exploitation for 30 years. Those who formulate these rules are said in Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This article lists the members of the expert committee, all except experts, representatives of all ministries and stakeholders except experts, where geologists are, for example, geologists. The new facilities are being re-evaluated by officials and it is justified that new Hajan or the new northern Adriatic will happen again. Whoever controls the amount of gas exploitation on the Adriatic, who is informed of the amount of gas exploitation. It is also interesting to note that Article 64, which states that the state can establish a national company, point. I call it a referencer. For which the national society, which it will deal with, is not written in law, anywhere. It says he can start. Article 10 allows research spaces to look like octopuses or paint stains on canvas. What does that mean? This raises suspicion that obviously those who painted these investigative spaces know where there are gas and oil, should not buy or pay concessions in those other areas when they are correct forms. The Italians, for example, divided the Adriatic into 20 fields, had an obligation, and it seems to me that today they still have an obligation to each field one, to explore one well a year. What's our standard, that's what I'm curious about? Article 21 speaks of expropriation. Our proposal is that it cannot be ruled out below the average price. So when all the prices are summed up and one owner is to be taken out, he can't be forced under the average price. Article 22 speaks of two types of contracts. The first is the research contract and the division of the exploitation where we share the profits. The second is research and exploitation with the obligation to pay taxes and fees. The question is how will the state protect itself to gain its half, its share, or its share. How we control how much oil or gas is exhausted. Two articles say, it will certainly be a colleague Holly interested in the 46th and 47th articles that is pumping CO2 into geological structures. I heard on the board when I was that it was harmless, experts say it was extremely harmful to the environment. Finally, Article 30 of the government will say to determine the amount of compensation and distribution ratios by the regulation. We propose, since this is the first reading to determine the amount of compensation and distribution ratios by law or by this Law or by special law. So much for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42148	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42149	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, since Parliament often likes to argue on the basis of something like this, so when we talk about INA privatisation of INA, then we have the Law of Declaration, actually the Law on Privatization of INA, the oil industry d.d. adopted by this Parliament on 19 March 2002 and pro-Club HDZ was against the law. But in Article 3 of that Law, he tells you that... INA Group member companies and other shares in the holding of INA d.d. they will not be particularly privatised under this Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the applicable regulations and restrictions laid down in this Act, these shares and shares shall be subject to the INA d.d.. So it's clearly defined what's being sold when INA's being sold. But it is a very interesting item in Article 4 where the Republic of Croatia retains the ownership of 25% + 1 of the INA shares that will be privatised under a special law after the INA has been admitted after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union. It's the 2002 Law. Based on that, everything was going on, I will repeat it in this House until someone sees the truth in the whole story. And as for Syria, the Hyan bloc, Palmire, etc., it's a joint company of INA and Syria. With INA having 25% ownership here. And I... I can say that a large part of me, as chairman of the Supervisory Board, was then left in the hands of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And otherwise, Hayan Block was something that needed to be shut down because everyone was saying it so it wouldn't be worth it. And in 2007, oil started to draw there, but it was poured into the tanks and there was no pipeline. Meanwhile, there are still two wells made there. And it's not good because of this law, because I just don't think that Croatia should be invented hot water it's long been invented just like the gunpowder. And this Law should be just the use of positive experiences by those who have far more experience than we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42150	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42151	Mr. Shuker, you read it last time, and it's good to read it from the Law every time, from the INA Sales Act. But I was saying, something else I asked a question. Did the moment INA was being sold know the real value of Hayan? That's what I asked about. I asked if we knew what we had. Yeah, if there's any behind the cooking shop. How to prevent the great wealth of Croatia from being inhabited. It's clear to me that everything in the papers is clean, all in the contracts clean. It's said that the huge value is left to us, and we sold it to the INA for, at that point, 505 million dollars. The value of the field we share with the Syrians is far beyond that. That's all I'm talking about. Did you know or didn't you know? First of all, the law won't reverse what happened. But the law needs tools and mechanisms to prevent such things from happening in the future. That's why I was talking about this. No evil intention whatsoever. One analysis to show. And besides, I think that this state's attorney's office has work to do to answer the state's attorney's office to some, not the ministry, not the minister. Maybe he has some knowledge that he can give us today. If not, some other time. And maybe Mladen Bajic will inform us about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42152	And a new replica, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42153	Dear Mr. President, I was offered the opening words of the distinguished representative Vuksic when he said it was an extremely important law. And that's what he is, and that's why I don't think it's a good idea to discuss him this afternoon in front of a practically empty or three-quarter empty booth. Because carbon exploitation research is undoubtedly the most significant mining and energy activity in Croatia. So far, we all know that about 200 million cubic metres of oil equivalent has been obtained, that oil and natural gas production today is 60% of domestic production of total primary energy, and consumption with liquid fuels is close to 70% of total energy consumption. Therefore, unequivocal is the first-class importance for Croatia as a whole. What did not mention, however, as I think is a problem, he mentioned several problems related to this law, and what is a problem, and this is the non-compliance of the provisions of this law with the provisions of the Mining Act and it seems to me to be a big problem because in some segments these two laws are even the opposite, diametrically opposite, and I'm actually afraid that if this does not comply, there will be huge problems in real life both for one activity and for other activities that are highly interrelated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42154	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42155	Dear colleague Reiner, I fully agree with your opinion that this law and the Mining Act are inconsistencies, but I think this is the first reading, the first thing I haven't said in the presentation is commendation that we are not in an emergency procedure and I hope there will be enough time until the second reading to open public debates and to analyse all the proposals that will come here in the Assembly. It is very important that you said that such important issues as gas and oil exploitation depended on the energy sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and we know what energy means today and what it will mean in the future, but this is about what we discussed about the Rules of Procedure yesterday as well. I think the Bureau of Parliament should simply build up the points. They say everything is important, there are less important and more important. This is one of the most important laws and it is absolutely certain that it should be debated in front of the full hall and that it should be discussed by all clubs and that it should be taken care of and that the general public should know this and that the general public should be informed of the debates in the Assembly. And it's not good when we push it into the afternoon and push it into times that are not suitable for the theme we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42156	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Đuro Popijač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42157	Mr. President, ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So we have before us a law that will regulate relations in the field of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, whose reserves are potentially located in the country or underground within the seawaters, and which relate to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And I agree, although rarely and this time I have to, with my colleague, that this law is extremely important and should have been placed in a more appropriate time for the public to eventually and also for the media that we know that this afternoon do not show any interest in what is happening in this House because it can be one of the key to the future economic picture of Croatia. So far, this economic activity has been governed by the Mining Act. The proposal states that when the law was drawn up, it took into account the long-term practice adopted in many countries, which the economy's success is based on the exploitation of hydrocarbons. Well, the government obviously wants to suggest that Croatia is located on rich oil and gas sites, and here we have finally found a magic formula that should be represented by this law, so by its vote and application Croatia will probably become a new Kuwait or Norway. This is what the presentation looked like when this law was launched by the government and the public, and through the media messages were sent that there was finally a way that this treasure lying underground and under the sea would be removed, and thus all Croatian problems would be solved. Today something similar, of course very optimistic, spoke and the minister himself presented this bill and announced, of course, in addition to all this and the cheapest price of energy in Croatia. I don't even know what the basis for these forecasts is for both potential reserves and possible exploitation. So if it is predicted, of course, that research and exploitation are going into concessions, that many major global companies are interested in research and exploitation, it is known what follows, contract, compensation and exploitation, and gas and oil will be sold to whoever gets the contract, who wants it at a higher price as it usually does. What will the Croatian government guarantee that this gas or oil will be sold cheapest in Croatia? So it's incompatible and don't promise it because it's just not true. It may happen, but not because it's going to be sold like today's case, so-called. Croatian oil or Croatian gas. Of course, these expectations of the government are also understandable in view of the fact that we are faced with the disastrous consequences of the government's economic policy and the increasingly obvious lack of any indication that something can change. It is also announced that there is an INA, which we have seen in recent weeks, as a company that has finally lost its monopoly in the field of hydrocarbon research and exploitation in world scale. Now, instead of INA, when this law is passed, and as the Minister of Economy says here, probably Americans will come, drill the Adriatic oil and all the problems of the Croats will go away because that's what the Italians do. It's just not comparable either. The amount of platforms, wells, gas or hydrocarbons on the Italian side of the coast are probably experts to you and said it is incomparable simply because of geology, because of the composition of the soil on our side compared to the Italian side, and it has nothing to do with each other and it cannot be compared like that, especially in this way to send some hope that it is only important to reach that Italian level and that everything will be solved. Respecting the fact that during a number of decades Croatia has accumulated great knowledge and experience in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons through scientific institutions, the oil and gas industry has accumulated its knowledge and experience in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, everything should be done to ensure that this knowledge and this experience and through the implementation of this law is used in the best possible way for the benefit of Croatian citizens. The progress of new technologies in this area certainly opens up the possibility of once-discovered beds, and perhaps new ones putting into commercial function because what they used to be restrictions on new technologies is being bridged and the exploitation becomes more likely. And in the history of research on the most complex terrains, they have always been done in collaboration with powerful global and European companies. These knowledge and experience exist and should be used in the future. It is important to know that everything that has been researched so far in the context of existing technologies has then and the financial opportunities, of course, already been done, and that is extremely much. A further step in more complex research and more complex methods of exploitation will also require extremely large investments, and not so little time. So it's actually a bit of a surprise announcement that it also appeared in the media that the first oil from the Adriatic will be on its way next year. That's not possible, of course. Such announcements will end up as announcements of the tsunamis of investments we've heard from the representatives of this government. Investors who will show interest in research will have to provide large investments precisely because of the very geology of the Adriatic, and will therefore expect an adequate return in real time. It is therefore necessary for Croatia to be fully prepared to be an equal partner to these players and to benefit from this relationship. This law should also mean the first step towards that goal. So if we assume that hydrocarbon findings are an extremely significant economic and strategic potential, we should certainly clearly set up a strong institutional potential that can closely monitor that position. But that part seems to be the weakest point of this law. Although the law tries to follow world experiences, in this part these experiences are not followed, but Croatian specificities are re-installed and the whole idea is diversified. The definition of the power of the Ministry of Economy and the Agency does not determine the clear relations between competence and the role the State wishes to play in this process. The ministry has a pale role to play, and the agency is given a role without obligation and responsibility. First of all, the agency should be able to assess the reserve based on the collected carbon bearing data and determine the commerciality of these reserves. It's the main activity of the oil ministries or similar agencies in the world. There is no such thing in this law but is as left to the extent that the investor himself is doing so. What this law gives the Agency is to coordinate other state administration bodies so that the investor can work. The law lays down that it is necessary to coordinate the state administration, let's say Article 6(2), where I quote: ensuring the conditions for effective enforcement of the rights and obligations of the investor on the basis of issued permits and contracts. Does this mean we're getting another investment agency that's gonna make the state administration do their job? What if the investor finds that the agency has not secured the terms enough? The role of the agency is reduced to controlling and forcing other authorities to work and thus completely loses the sense that it is also called the hydrocarbons agency. The law defines the Agency as carrying out its activities on its own, and when it looks at jurisdiction in all these activities, it only participates and cooperates, and without any responsibility. The only thing it does on its own is reports to the Commission of the European Union which submits a report on the difficulties faced by investors. The activity itself is contradictory of defined competences because it says that the agency must provide conditions for the uninterrupted business of investors. Furthermore, why does the agency collect data from investors, then not process them but forward it to the Ministry? Is that what another agency needs? It's a pretty vague image of the rights and obligations of the surveillance agency, it's a small agency, a little bit of a role of the State Inspectorate but without the right to take some action and without the obligation to collect the data that it does. Such a defined agency is just another bureaucratic product that is nothing like similar institutions in the world. It is the impression that someone has carefully created a new institution for fostering the like without any real obligations, goals that need to be achieved and without responsibility. The actual role of the Agency should be focused on the professional decision-making of all exploitations, such as those of the Agency. the duration of the maximum possible daily production based on the expertise of oil, mining and geological professions on the course of the course of the field in terms of re-use to other purposes, on the determination of the necessary..., etc., etc. There's nothing in the law, but if this were in the Agency's activities, then it should certainly be done by experts, but it's the opposite of what this government is doing. It is particularly interesting to see one definition of terms, so it is a national commercial company, meaning a company formed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for research and exploitation of energy and mineral raw materials. So from the text of the law, of course, we can't figure out what the government actually wants. In addition to this law, there are, of course, these other principled remarks that it is necessary to quantify the provisions of the Mining Act and of this Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. The law does not comply with the Gas Market Act. The law regulates the case when a new investigation procedure is carried out to a concession for exploitation and does not define a way of adapting already existing ones. The duration is therefore 30 years of exploitation in the Mining Act is 40 years. The conditions of release in the test exploitation are lacking, no conditions or ownership rights are regulated over the quantities of hydrocarbon produced, it is unclear and undefined way of achieving the right of purchase, production of the share, etc. But there is still one particularly interesting part for this short time, which is a financial tax on the rights and obligations of investors. Therefore, despite the Law on Commercial Companies, the Foreign Exchange Act, the Law on Payments, the Law on the Croatian National Bank, all tax laws, the entire legal regulation of the European Union in this area deals with specific issues of financial tax law and investor obligations. It's the only thing that doesn't exist in any other law. Why does this Law deal with this? What do the provisions that state what taxes investors will pay? For example. profit tax. Special treatment, for example. a profit tax and in the following paragraphs of this article, where it is said that it enters, which does not enter, very specific to one of these laws. Does this mean that what isn't listed here shouldn't be paid? What does bonuses mean and what do benefits mean? Does this Law exclude all legal regulations applicable to all other business entities in the Republic of Croatia and the European Union? Does this mean that an investor does not have to open, for example, a trade company in the Republic of Croatia but opens an account? Even if it is not from the European Union. Because it's defined that he can only open an account. Other laws define the entire area, what accounts are opened, how they are paid in Croatia, in which currency, meaning foreign exchange business and which means, of course, tax obligations and how they are determined. It's certainly one particular area that needs to be discussed. Which is why it is introduced into this Law and what it represents in relation to other laws, which means that something must also be changed in other laws. Some items treated by this Law. This article also seems to be the most controversial and confusing in the whole law, and I don't really understand that everything goes through the Ministry of Finance that it's been the Ministry of Finance's opinion and whether it's been obtained at all. This could really, at some point, be a real treat for corporate lawyers of potential investors and you say that real companies have them at large. I think, therefore, all of these, of course, in the short time of the observations made, observations and observations should, of course, be taken seriously from us and from others. That it is necessary to work in detail on the definition of the agency itself, the role and the right to obtain a true hydrocarbon agency with fully adequate roles, responsibilities and obligations, and not another place where red tape will be entertained and balled between ministries and some quasi agencies. The law makes sense, and the law can be fashioned to that level that it is even easy to accept. I believe that the very colleagues of the Ministry of Economy will take a greater role in that. Because I have an impression, knowing, of course, most of the professions that work at the Ministry of Economy that this is not the product of the original and original economy ministry and I believe that they will be included more in the procedure itself when the law is passed in the final version. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42158	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I quoted the 2002 INA Privatisation Act for the simple reason that it convinced us at the time, and then we just started the story about the European Union that the state cannot own and that this is why INA must be privatised and that at the moment that we enter the European Union we must sell everything. INA had an extremely strong company at the time, which is INA oil gas, which was among the certainly better in Europe. And now very interesting 10 years after that, we propose this law to re-establish a company that would deal with the same business and we sold this one the way we sold it. However, this Article 40 is particularly interesting and I will, therefore, report to the individual debate specifically, it is very interesting that in one country that has a specific law defines all tax obligations, which has signed contracts with all countries in the world with which a double taxation agreement can practically be signed that regulates those international transactions, we enter into one law provisions that have nothing to do with common sense. Some of the provisions of this Law have nothing to do with common sense. And I'm just asking you a question, my colleague, and I'm going to ask the Minister later, whether this 40th rule out this Investment Encouragement Act. Because you don't have it here. If someone invests in Croatia, it is subject to the law as well as to all companies. Therefore, this Law is very, very dangerous for the Republic of Croatia. Look at INA's Law between INA and Syria, and you'll see how they're regulated and we say they don't know anything, that we know everything. We, in our knowledge, unfortunately do things the way we do things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42160	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42161	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, fellow Shuker, of course, there's still a lot in the law itself besides what you said about what should be put really increased and understand what your intention is. It is true, then, that oil gas as part of INA was once really a leading one, at the top of the world's oil business in terms of research. And more or less about the Adriatic, they did everything with their Italian partners and others. At the time, there was no possible exploitation, even some attempts, and it was known how it ended. But about that some... Some of the great unknowns are gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as Article 40 is concerned, this is particularly interesting and you have rightly noticed, so let’s say that when calculating the tax on profit of water, it will take care of the following and indicate what will be taken into account. And it says that the profits will be calculated according to this law, meaning not that law, but this law, and this law does not say how they will count the profits. And does that mean that in that law to someone where it's already been said it would have to say that it's not worth it to some legal person or some activity or some company or something that's going to do this job? I have the impression, therefore, that as the minister said, the law was done by some examples of how worldly people do it, countries that have a big business in it, that it is in many parts and prescribed, so this is also misspelled. Now this certainly can't stand here unless the whole regulation that touches this matter in many other laws, and that's quite a number of laws, about payment traffic, about foreign exchange business, I've tried to list them. It's a serious problem in this law, and I think there's going to be a lot of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42162	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Drinker, you have devoted part of your presentation to the establishment of the Agency for Hydrocarbons. The law provides for the activity and part-time work of the agency itself, but on the Committee on Environment Protection, a representative of the Ministry, or a representative of the Government, answered the specific question that the Agency is a limited life-longer that does not appear in the law. In fact, our committee was concerned with the fact that the agency would cease to exist when the fields were divided and the hydrocarbon exploitation started, and that it said in Article 64 that the state could set up a commercial company for the exploitation of hydrocarbons. Now I don't understand what the need for the establishment of an agency that is here according to the government's representatives on our board has a limited life span. I don't see why the Ministry and the Government couldn't carry out the procedure in that sense, which is why they set up a special agency, another agency in the public administration system in the public sector that can only further spend the resources of the state budget, anyway scarce resources of the state budget. Although it says here in the bill that they are secured at the position of the Ministry of Economy 400,000 kuna for the work of the Agency, from the experience of similar bodies established in the Republic of Croatia, for example the Energy Sector Monitoring and Business Centre, which was also envisaged in some small amounts, later it seems to me only in part of the costs related to the administration, somewhere at 16 million kuna. What is now the establishment of an agency that will be said after establishing potential locations stop acting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42164	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42165	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I really cannot understand the real purpose. If it was to create a real hydrocarbon agency to do what they're doing, I mentioned it in the debate, let's say, oil ministries in countries that are abound with that energy, to manage the entire reserves, resources, exploitation, research, then it's something else. Then this definition simply does not cover such a role if it was the Ministry's intention. It may be necessary if it is assumed that Croatia is indeed lying on such rich sources and that it is necessary. There was once, of course, a state-owned company, it was an INA that ran everything, so from the research and records reserves, and today it's probably all the geological research in the basements of that building INA. However, if the investment agency is only helping investors, we already have three at least in Croatia. In one ministry, we have that energy center, and then those investments could be dealt with by one of those agencies. What exactly was there to want? Or you can build a hydrocarbon agency so everything... inside is what it needs to do, and if it's just an investment agency, then there's no need to be an agency just for those investments, so it can also be done by the Ministry as it's done so far in the end. So especially when it's said verbally that it's a short-lived agency, it obviously doesn't have the intensity to be a really permanent hydrocarbon agency with its full role and function as it should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42166	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Deputy, Mr. Krassic. Well, perhaps the predecessors have said that it is not the most appropriate time for discussion, judging from the fact that the debate is mostly constructive and good, it may well be a better solution for us to come together to better and better laws. Sometimes very often we get divorced or disintegrated, try to be picturesque, about some other debates. I think the debate so far has shown in fact how important the law is and how good it is... here is a fellow drinker from HDZ who has warned of all the possible things that this law can fix or better work it out and prescribe it in accordance with the world's best practice. So my predecessors and the minister concluded that this paper in Croatian legislation was also announced when we passed the Mining Act that we would very quickly pass this alloy specialis, so the Mining Act estimated that new circumstances simply cannot prescribe everything, and as I said in accordance with best world practices. It's a good thing this law, so now my colleague Shucker's confusing me because I'm... Everything's fine. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So to exploit the mineral, research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, then separate it into a bearing of specialis. For the past 20 years, the wealth we were lying on didn't happen much, said counterpart Vuksic at the front about what INA did, what it didn't do. I wouldn't go too far into the details of what happened and how, because it's going to separate us from some politics again. But the fact is that the past 20 years have been relatively little invested in research, especially in the last 10 years, I say, there are many, many justified reasons and crises and a lack of resources. And that famous privatisation. I'm saying, but with all the advances in technology, I think that's also unison, and I believe that other clubs are going to say that this area can and must be better prescribed. I say in accordance with best world practice, and that will enable us in any case two readings, and on that side, it is good that this Law be considered as much as possible in this House. So what are the basics of the advantage, the Prime Minister said of them, something about them, which is a simplified procedure, which is therefore a unique procedure for issuing permits and for entering into an exploitation contract, so we clearly and transparently open the door for potential investors. Types of contracts, which would ultimately be clearly defined by government obligations on the one hand and potential investors on the other. It's also said so... The use of land, therefore, is a more efficient and simple process of solving the biggest problem in Croatia of property-legislative relations, it was a matter of state or private land and the ownership of the land of natural persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The obligation to comply with all applicable rules relating to the protection of nature and the environment for human health and safety shall therefore be clearly prescribed, and subsequent resolution of the area. There's always a step further, probably going to make your contribution to fellow Holly when I see her here in the benches. The clearly defined ratio of bonuses and fees, ownership, someone said it critical property over the entire documentation and all data remains exclusively for the Republic of Croatia and that is good, is it good that it is secret or not, but in any case a certain degree of secrecy is for this activity to say so desirable. Maximum, maximum insurance, maximum policy for possible unwanted cases around these situations, so there should also be best practice. What is new, and so far these are two new institutions, so the Agency for Hydrocarbons and the National Trade Society, which has been the subject of so far, and I agree with my predecessors that their future activities should be better prescribed. And the last newspaper of this Law is not least important and what is usually the first for us to pass the law here, so compliance with the acquis of the European Union. Directives of Parliament and of the Council since 94. So, with a single statement of newspapers in the legal system, but I believe that we can all agree that this Law offers solutions that better and more complexly regulates this matter and that, in any case, it should contribute to a more successful development of this activity, I say quite a frozen activity in the last 20 years, the last 5, 6 years, which is actually a shame given the progress and technology and all the opportunities this activity provides. They also said a colleague before me, there should be some harmonisations, therefore, both nomotechnic and termological with the Mining Act that we have recently passed, there must be more, more room for this. What I can say in front of the SDP Club is what the proposals would be to consider, look until the second reading and what would be good is that the Proposer of the Law of the Ministry and the Proposer of the Law Government until the second reading is further harmonised. This is in any case the definition of a national trading company for the research and exploitation of energy mineral raw materials. They are only determined in one way if I am not mistaken in Article 64 of the Law. Thus, and neither in reason nor in itself, it is 64th and neither in the article itself determines a closer functioning or financing of that society. As I was saying, we should determine something more precise, a public statement, a more precise and clear statement. For example, in Article 5(6), the term of everyday life is not happy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Afterwards, colleagues spoke in the last or last replica of Article 40 concerning the indication of the obligation to pay the income tax, the additional value, and the tax on contributions and other charges, whether or not it is necessary to prescribe it, if it is not the happiest solution, and the same should be seen about better solutions. Article 55, Article 55, I don't know if anyone has mentioned it yet, I've listened, I don't think so, are also non-compliant paragraphs 3 and 1. The financial guarantee is therefore referred to in Article 55(1) while the article, paragraph 3, refers to a financial guarantee or to another equivalent instrument. If we wanted one, then we put one, one, and the other, if we wanted another, then let's fix it somewhere else. It is not clear enough in Article 56 when I am already in that part of the Law paragraph 1 so it is said here that the investor is obliged to make a financial contribution to the ministry before there is a transfer of responsibility, so here it is thought of a concession for the arrangement. In any event, it should be more specified what it is, what this financial contribution is and how it is defined. Another comment or topic that should be considered is this transitional phase, so I was saying now that all concessions in the use of the INA company are in general. A certain transitional period should be made, whether this period of 2 years is well determined whether it should be shorter or longer on this will likely be further debates. What I would certainly appeal to, I think, is that, in Article 67 instead of paragraph 3, it is within two years, so now the holders of their concessions, in fact, have to comply with this law. In my view, a better solution would be to replace, therefore, research approvals, etc. On that side, we still have a two-way relationship. So both in a way and the responsibility of the ministry and of all the competent services on that side, that would be a better solution anyway. Here I am saying the need and the commendation that this law comes, given the new circumstances, to new technologies, to comply with the environment. No one agreed on it, said the Italians' opening minister have 120, we significantly lower their platforms. Montenegrins are in a hurry, Albanians are in a hurry. It would not be bad if we, I say, but in accordance with best world practice, we do this law, we bring it, we describe it more precisely, and we work out the concepts that will help us to say that they are on the world's best lead that will primarily protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, but on the other hand, they will in no way detimise potential investors for which they obviously have an interest in giving up investment in this area, so that, in the end, they will all have full benefits, of course, by condicio son qua non everything, and that is the full and most effective possible protection of the environment. My colleagues and colleagues, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42168	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, Honorary Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with the deputy and associate, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club on the Proposal for a Law on Carbon Research and Exploitation. I'll join at the beginning of the evaluations of previous speakers that it's extremely good that this law is important in two readings. It is indeed one of the essential laws that have so far appeared in the parliamentary debate in this conference because when we look at this legal matter, we must start from the fact that Croatia is an energy-dependent country in all segments of energy supply and production. We are simply put into a situation that if we do not work intensively on the regulation of the energy sector and on the progress in that part, it is difficult to expect a more significant economic recovery, and it is even harder to talk about reindustrating the Republic of Croatia because we are aware that energy consumption is growing, and in this particular case I intend to speak on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club when it comes to hydrocarbons, then the production of hydrocarbons is falling. And that's the measure of things. Every year we record a decline in production and oil and natural gas. We are witnessing the abstinence of a company that has recently been truly ours and why not today is probably a topic for some other audiences and for some other debates. What is important is that the Republic of Croatia must create conditions for investors of interest to approach and exploit and explore and exploit hydrocarbons in the territory of the Republic of Croatia not only in its territory, such as the esteemed colleague Popiac seems to have told me, but also in the area of extended jurisdiction, i.e. the epicontinental belt of the Republic of Croatia, which may actually be the most prospective space in that part. It is not an area of total sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, but it is based on the '82 International Convention on the Law of the Sea. working on an ipso factor, lawyers would say right to exploit and explore all the resources that are tied to the bottom or are below the bottom which includes oil and natural gas. A fellow Popijac said in his statement that the number of oil platforms in Italy is higher than the Republic of Croatia because of a more suitable area for research, exploitation. I could comment that it's partly true, but it's not about composition and type of soil, it's primarily about batimetry. She's depth is one of the most important determiners of the cost of exploitation and research. Those who know that part know that the Italian coast, especially in that part of their territorial waters, is extremely shallow, and therefore as suitable as that part of the northern Adriatic, which includes these several oil platforms on which not only research is being done today, but gas exploitation, and that is one special story again. However, the Republic of Croatia has also quite a suitable batimetry and the Adriatic has its perspective in research and exploitation. For this reason, it was necessary to approach the draft of this law because it was shown not only when it comes to hydrocarbons, but we also passed a special gas law for the simple reason that the existing law is actually archaic. The Mining Act could not fully elaborate all specificities of individual domains that are part of mining. There are specificities in the exploitation of mineral wealth, mineral raw materials, oil, gas, and it is good that we recognize the moment and that, with this obligation to comply with the acquis, the EU actually takes advantage of the moment and to install all the positive experiences of countries that have a prominent component of this economic branch in its national economies. Mr. Secretary mentioned Norway. It is a very bright example, a country which primarily owes its wealth a responsible approach of course to the benefits they enjoyed with the game of fate, but a very serious approach in that part. And their experiences should certainly be used. When it comes to this law, it covers almost everything in chapters. It has developed elements of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and future investors and concessionaries, which eliminates the anomaly that the process of concessioning for research and exploitation is actually being separated, which makes things very complicated and dissuasive for potential investors. It also covers a segment of the obligation to apply the highest standards in environmental protection. It also provides for defined forms of contractual relations, basic forms of research and distribution contracts for hydrocarbon exploitation or as an alternative variant of the research and exploitation contract with the obligation to pay fees and taxes. The basic principles for the termination of the contract are also clearly laid down, and the rights of the Republic of Croatia in the event of the termination are protected in which the property remains the Republic of Croatia, which the property in a particular variant may be withdrawn and could thus be listed indefinitely. What is important to emphasize is that future investors need the Republic of Croatia because we no longer have a national oil company that would be under full or dominant control of the Republic of Croatia. And that oil company today doesn't have that ambition that she used to have. So far, concessions on exploitation research have been defined by the fact that it was our national company and it is necessary to standardise and establish new rules and approaches in accordance with the practices of countries that have been in this business for years and whose business is core. It is not the same relationship that awaits on commercial grounds and the foundations of good governance of any other investor than the one that once had INA on these premises decades ago. INA with such a position as a fundamental foundation has passed the time and shown interest in research in these areas is important for the Republic of Croatia and it is good that in one serious process of adopting this law, with open public debate and respect for all constructive proposals, especially the profession, and clearly and policies, a law that protects the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the future will allow intensive research and exploitation with the clear and well-protected interests of this country, because if we are absorbed from the opening of investments in the field of energy, we are generally not well written in this area either. Finally, we hope that in the debate in this law, because of its importance, the profession will be included and that we will have enough time in the Croatian Parliament but also the general public to refer to this law. We consider this first variant well-complicated, but we do not clearly live in the illusion that it is perfect because no one has ever made the perfect law and people who are either as authors or as authors and co-workers working on making the law regardless of their experience and expertise are aware that every law in its application has experienced one or more novels. Therefore, for the first reading of the HNS, it is satisfied with the offer and we will advocate that this law be passed as high as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42170	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused three replicas. She's the first one to represent Đura Popièa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42171	Well, here's a thank you. A colleague of Baranovic's good news is that you have completed a little further picture of what our side of the coast is, which is Italian, especially if we are moving closer to the mainland. There's probably no ambition to install platforms between our Kornati or anything. But that's another topic. And secondly, one truly fama and one often used illusion of this energy independence or energy sovereignty. What does that essentially mean? What we mean by that when we use it and use it for a variety of purposes. Does this mean that we have all the raw materials we need for something, for anything, that we have all the energy sources, that we need to use everything for some kind of own consumption in anything or that means something else. Or that's even important to anything. Who is a major energy addict than, say, Austria or Germany or England or any developed country of the world? And who are, of course, so-called. Energy independent entities? So let's say Austria with 10 million inhabitants makes a 360 billion-euro social product. 100 billion euros in exports of industrial products. Don't export oil or gas because it's not there, there's not a single cube in its own production. So we have to think about what it really is when we talk about what energy is for us, which is for us and exploitation, I see it primarily as a commercial product of goods as well as any other. It's good if we're close, so probably because of the transport costs it'll be cheaper, but that only means some economic prosperity, and without this second part, so let's say that Austria sees what it's doing, I think that with that energy sovereignty, independence just gets carried away if we can finally achieve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42172	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Petar Baranovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable colleague, Poppin Austria, has no oil, but there are most probably ski trails in Europe. I mean, oil makes wars. So let's not lie, gentlemen, I mean, let's not undermine the importance of one country's energy stability and the wealth of natural gas hydrocarbons and such things. Of course everything can be bought, but we can't run God's economic policy in a way that we don't care if we have a piece of agricultural or total agricultural production self-sufficient. I don't mean in a literal sense, but in terms of how much we import, we import so much that we don't have a deficit. Of course we don't care if we go into... how much energy deficit we're going to have to import everything or still produce certain types of energy ourselves. Well, if we went with that logic, then we'd be perfectly whatever in all domains of the economy. But I think that logic and such thinking have led us to the situation we are in today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42174	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And most of all, I agree with my colleague Baranovic, who well explained the advantages of this law and argued that he is a good starting point and we can work things out by the second reading. I have only one sentence left, you told Mr. Baranovic that almost all of this law in one part goes really into detail, can prescribe something more than is necessary. That's why I'm saying it might need to be balanced, but this law doesn't prescribe it, and that was the suggestion of my debate, it doesn't prescribe perhaps the most important one, and that's the powers and responsibilities of these new bodies that we're establishing, therefore, with the very role of the ministry throughout the process. It is certainly also a national trade society, I said that which is just said that the government can establish and there is no word and that it will work tomorrow to initiate etc. As far as the Agency and its competences are concerned, they are in part overlapping with the powers of some other agencies, primarily the centre of... business and the energy sector and investments. It would be good to get things out of the way so potential investors don't go astray, that's all. In confusion. And what is confusing in some ways I forgot in my debate and Article 9 paragraph 9 when the Government transfers to the entity it proposes can transfer its right to acquire shares in the rights and obligations of the licence and contract, so when the investor transfers its own, the Government can also bring it down to a national trading company. But it says he can pass it on to someone else. Maybe that's not the best solution to say further confuses future investors. All in all, the law is good, but there's no reason why we shouldn't clear these details up until the last reading. And as I often say here we pass the law by consensus because it's a very important law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42176	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by a respected representative, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Radjenovic, the only comment I can make is that it is very certain that certain details will not be dealt with by law but by sublegal acts stemming from this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42178	The last replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You tell your colleague Baranovic among other things, this law will allow the exploitation of hydrocarbons by the highest standards of environmental protection. We are discussing this law almost parallel to the change in the Strategy of Spatial Planning, which the strategy reads in the strategy, made it possible in the country's area in the Adriatic area in an epicontinental belt of hydrocarbon research in the areas of potential oil sites, gas without previously planned locations on the one hand, and on the other hand this same strategy done without a strategic assessment of the impact on the environment of hydrocarbon exploitation in the Adriatic. I think that you who come from Sibenik know the potential danger of exploring hydrocarbons on the Adriatic, and then clearly in the South Adriatic area where the same strategy drew and potential locations of hydrocarbon research. In fact, the exploitation of hydrocarbons today is the most complex industrial process in the world. What a mistake in such an exploitation can do for the environment, I guess, in the wake of the tragedy that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico when the British Petroleum had to pay huge damages for destroying the Gulf of Mexico. So I believe that this law is in the same text as it should have come after the correct environmental impact assessment of all those potential hydrocarbon research sites that would have been prescribed in the decision to amend and supplement the spatial planning strategy. But I don't have time. I'll discuss it more individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42180	Thank you very much. The respected representative Petar Baranovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, I believe that the law stipulates that the activities of this type which are subject to this law cannot interfere with the safety of navigation and other economic activities. Of course, it is expected that such activities take place on the open sea rather than on waterways or in those areas that are much more environmentally sensitive and closed eco systems. Of course we remember well and I share with you concerns about environmental protection, and most likely with all present representatives and representatives and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What happened in the Gulf of Mexico was indeed a disaster but it was conditioned by one fact, which is actually the real advantage of the Adriatic when it comes to this activity and extract the data at which the depth of the sea in the Gulf was drilled, and at which depths it is done in the Adriatic, and you will find the answer to the question of how the tragedy occurred. And ultimately, it is certainly very good that it is written and clearly prescribed that respect for the world's highest standards of environmental protection and safety of standards is expected. And it is recommended to the Ministry to draw up a regulation or sublegal act based on this law which will specifically elaborate on the subject and make it mandatory for each investor, as well as for the concessionary himself, or the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42182	Thank you very much. We would now move to the next presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives and this will be on behalf of the HDSSB Club, the distinguished representative Drazen Đurović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42183	Here is Mr. Vice President, the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. Well, the fact is that the Republic of Croatia is really neither Kuwait nor Algeria. I don't even know Bahrain, that the Republic of Croatia is a territorially small country with a small population but a number of people with relatively decent oil and gas supplies, or how these are spoken by hydrocarbons, oil and gas. Some estimates suggest that in the Republic of Croatia, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the 60-year period, about 184 billion tonnes or cubic tonnes of oil equivalent have been drawn up. And some estimates say that about the remaining reserves, estimated reserves are about 56 billion tons of that equivalent of about 30% of oil and 70% of gas. So either a billion tons or a cubic of oil equivalent anyway. It's visible, and all the data suggests that domestic production is falling oil, especially oil. However, all data also say that the reserves exist, so that certain reserves especially in the northern Adriatic are made by the Republic of Croatia. And now it's just a question of how the state policy is actually going to be raised on this issue we see from this actually a bill of law about what the idea is. We've seen from the presentation of HNS representatives, the HNS Club we're about to give up the INA, so the INA model as a national state-owned company has been spent. What happened. We no longer have, or it is our political judgment that we no longer have the power as a state to turn that wheel and because of the few percent we lost in ownership or because of those contracts that we signed, we actually have this model as it is with regard to the exploitation of gas and oil definitely changing and turning with another concession-open model where this is what we are going to do in some way through some regulation actually offer on the market. It was visible, I think, that one or two parliamentary issues came up these last year and a half days, one of them was actually a question of the state of concession in the wells and in the fields. And there was actually one review, a review of the state of these concessions, it was a year ago where it was visible from most, from most of these concession contracts that were listed in individual fields that actually a good part of those contracts came out, that some expire, some still do not expire. They're charming on all the elements. Even those who have expired are still actually some fields in use. And so. It's obvious there and depending on when they tried different and the deadlines of exploitation, it's predicted, some are extended. In fact, it was visible that this whole concept, the explosion of oil and gas actually rests on the INA as a state-owned company, and now this is one turn in a completely different direction. Since the law itself is relatively formatted, it shows more or less the direction of the word. And it's a good question at the Croatian Parliament if that's the direction we want. That's the real question. Is it the direction to say goodbye to INA and head towards opening the market for other companies that will enter the territory of the Republic of Croatia? And so, through clear contracts with them, it simply simply added to the INA and its position that it has in Croatia today to make it even more difficult. Because that's what's gonna happen. In all things, even in such assessments, a little strategic thought should be given. And I think that, if the strategic judgment of such thinking exists, I don't know, I think there's a certain tactical judgment that applies to the next few years or where it's estimated that certain, certain incomes can be made through contracts with certain companies. I hope that such tactical judgments do not rest on anyone's private interests. I don't mean the presence here, but generally. So, to really rest on some judgment that the Republic of Croatia through such arrangements can achieve its national interests. And that, on the other hand, through the damage that will undoubtedly happen towards the INA in years or the next 10 years that will come that the damage that will be created there will not actually be greater than this gain that we through this model as the Republic of Croatia will achieve. In doing so, I also think of the number of employees and of all those incomes that the Republic of Croatia makes not only through concession fees. Like any proposal coming from this ministry regardless of the current minister, the deputy minister who was coming or the previous minister was always there in the proposal by one agency. So it was AIK, it was CEI, now it's this hydrocarbon agency. No keys, maybe it could be called ACH, that agency CH or ANP oil and gas agency, but one agency still appears. None of them shut down, but another one shows up no matter what legal proposal it was. Here is now a brief review of several articles of the proposed law and remarks, since it is about first reading. Therefore, the first observation is a total strategic judgment that is not reasoned. So, strategic judgment. Therefore, since this is proposed by the government, it is a strategic judgment that this kind of energy policy or policy towards the spatial supply of oil and gas is of Croatian interest, although it is not so clearly written. And when it comes to the bill itself, let's say the article, here's a little bit about articles. This Regulation shall enter On the Expert Committee for the Implementation of Public Competition, where representatives from that hydrocarbon and competent ministries are part of the expert commission, and in the end from..., I assume that this applies to it. For example, let us not assume that, for example, in the commission’s part to conduct this public competition for concessions, it might be good to have a profession. We, for example, have. The Energy Institute "Hrvoje Fire" themselves say and write about themselves on their websites that they are the headquarters scientific institution for energy planning. It seems quite similar to this subject, for example, there may be other related scientific institutions that would sometimes not be bad to include in the composition of such committees, rather than just political bodies. There may be even more high-quality scientific institutions for representatives who may be able to contribute to the decision on concessions for exploitation, i.e. research. This is about Article 13. It is well defined in Article 27 that the Republic of Croatia has the right to buy gas or oil. In my opinion, it's a good thing it's left as a possibility. When it comes to Article 37 of the environmental protection measures, I think that this is a very insufficient approach, in fact, to develop measures that would protect those sites after completion and use, i.e. exploitation, and that this article should further develop the measures and obligations that the investor would have to take for the purpose of resuscitating, protecting the environment and nature and its responsibilities in order to preserve, whilst leading to various incidents and incidents and incidents which, relatively not least, follow such facilities to a larger or smaller extent, regardless of whether they are at sea or on land. Therefore, if we are already opening up like that, then I think we should work out measures to protect nature and the environment with a few additional and more detailed items. For example, in the last sentence, the investor takes all measures to avoid the risk of pollution of nature and the area of the plant being returned to a favourable, or satisfactory state and ends there. It's convenient, or satisfying. What's that? I think that's where these investors are supposed to come for profit, and it's ours if anything else to protect nature and that space where it happens, to put it back in the way it's at least as found if it's possible. This article 40 they referred to, and Mr Shucker will be sure to elaborate further on it, I will not look back on it in substance, but I will mention that this article is written in simple sentences, in short, simple, undeveloped terms, and then comes article 43 of the protection of the confidentiality of information. When it comes to the protection of the confidentiality of the data here is a very complex one, it would say a fiscal dictionary, a multi-complex sentence which is very hard to be complex enough to become difficult to understand in almost 14 rows and with very much like this, as if two different persons wrote Articles 40 and 43. So when it comes to the protection of secrecy, both parties must protect the secrecy of the data, and five years after the validity of the licence has been suspended, and there is a strong debate on how the sacred secret in the contract will be protected so that the public will by chance not have the right to know or the right to see what kind of contract has been concluded, in which circumstances, who has passed better and who has passed worse. Interesting. For the purposes of which the confidentiality of investor data must be protected in a restrictive manner as defined in Article 43. So, all in all when it comes to energy independence that some have touched is interesting, interestingly this notion of energy independence and energy addiction and whether we need it at all is the same and almost the world-wide issue. Usually, commitment to independence, economic sovereignty because the state is more sovereign than energy independent, which is more independent in food production, which is stronger in its resources, and then it's interesting when some people who represent a certain conservative option think that the state should not be energy independent or when defending those who represent, say, a more liberal option. In a country where the average net salary is 700 and some euros, and therefore GDP is 40 per cent of the European Union average, where energy prices are about 70 per cent to 80 per cent of the European Union average, only domestic production can actually preserve such a socially sustainable component for Croatian citizens. Well, of course, gas and electricity can only have as much a favourable price for Croatian citizens as possible if we will produce them to the greatest extent in the Republic of Croatia, not if we are bound to prices on the world market that have been growing in recent years. It's not just like that when it comes to energy prices. It is also true when it comes to prices and agricultural products. Therefore, our view is otherwise that Croatia's energy independence should certainly be favoured to the greatest extent possible. As far as this bill is concerned, we think it needs to be significantly, significantly completed and strategically considered whether this is really what we need. So, we'll be restrained in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42184	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused two replicas. The first is the respected representative of Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42185	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you have made one claim that the Croatian People's Party in the exhibition of Mr Baranovic gave up on the INA. We haven't given up on INA at all. I mean, I don't see what we gave up on INA. We just know that INA has given up research and exploitation according to all the data we have, and someone has passed on, and we already know who the management rights are, so we didn't want to at this point, we can't have any other effect on their decision-making management but to open up a space for competition for them, but in a way that absolutely and INA will be able to participate and we believe we have interest in everything as already stated by standards and criteria that primarily protect the environment, and on the other hand open the space for energy independence or independence of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, all of those gains that mean when you have your own production, when you have the development of the economy that this law can, in any case, bring into exploitation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42186	They will respond to the replica, the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42187	Thank you. Well, I can't quote, but I can paraphrase. Approximately said Mr. Baranovic that INA is a finished story. I can't really quote and in that context he spoke. So we have to actually turn to another model, and that's this model that this law promotes. And I say, it's a matter of strategic commitment. It should not be forgotten that 10 years before MOL hit INA's INA, she could have finished the MOL. So maybe in 10 years, who knows how things are gonna go. But my one direction when you go with it is very difficult at some point turned. So I think this model is how it's going to go that in it INA will very or relatively little participate, and here's the time it's going to show.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42188	The next replica is her respected representative, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. counterpart, you've been talking about a few important things that are. One of the most important things is what Croatia will define itself for. You said one exact finding, said that energy independence should be forced. And this finding that you just said that we actually said goodbye to INA, and that's what Mr. Shuker quoted from that contract all the time, we're going to have 25% plus 1 shares. Yeah. So we said goodbye a long time ago. Whether to swallow INA MOL won't, because it's MOL. It's the only name I'm thinking of. We're still in those delusions. You've also turned to secret contracts. Secret contracts aren't about the state. The state is part of it because of the powerful men who signed those contracts not to be lynched by the people, and most of all because of the fact that they're hiding the ugly, dirty work, to see that they slaughtered a cow because of a steak, and we ate that steak a long time ago, and now we have nothing to eat. That's also the case with the INA, that's also the case with THT. So we've had more secret contracts in which we know what was actually going on on the hood. It's very difficult to maintain energy sovereignty if what you said we don't set directions, if we don't know what we want, if we don't protect these fields that I don't believe, you said there's another 56 billion tons of supplies. By what estimates? What kind of experts are they? When will the state finally refer to it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42190	Thank you very much. The respected representative Drazen Djurovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42191	Yeah, yeah. This is an article 43th protection of the secrecy of data, in particular paragraph 2 which should really be read and it would be interesting to hear from the minister who wrote it. It would be interesting to hear, therefore, because the person who wrote Article 2 is an excellent, excellent lawyer. It does work for the interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42192	Thank you very much. Here's a word for the respected Economy Minister Ivan Vrdoljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42193	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to charge myself with how much I've been able to write down your remarks. So, first of all, I don't think of spending too much time because it's not the subject of today's privatisation process of the first contract, other contracts and everything that followed so that we concentrate more on this very important topic so that we don't turn on something that's a big national topic and interest, but to be clear, no one here has given up this law or anything else. The Croatian state owns 44% of INA and the INA will go to the competition completely equal to its knowledge, experience, references, money, everything like any other world offerer in its country probably knows the terrain better. Maybe he knows better engineers, I don't know. They may even be favored with some of their knowledge, experiences they have in Croatia. They may know more than someone who will come to us from other parts of the world. I don't know, but we opened the door for them. So why would we give up INA? Well, INA can do that. How? Well, INA does it all over the world. So come on, people, work. But it can't happen that the only concessionaries, it was a question of Vuksic, who the concessionaries are, and I was introspecting INA is the only concessionary. Where they got their rights, the rights they had since Yugoslavia, but after that there were competitions. Now, Mr. Popioč left, and he himself opened 14 contests in the 11th month of 2011, for 14 fields that we managed to undo for a month. The recommendations of the profession, I've gone around the world to ask what the recommendations are, what are standards? Let's learn, we don't know how to do it, so we ask. So they say the tender under 5 months isn't real, 6 is optimal for all investors to prepare. We open at the 11th month of the month competition for 14 fields on land. So then we annuled it. So, some were... about the contest and some were acquired rights. INA is the only concessionary. And no one has given up the INAs, but we want them to come, invest, that where the state owns it, so probably both the INA board members and the state's supervisory board will fight to go to the competition and find, to choose the best possible fields, to have the best possible exploitation, to make the most possible profits. So who's gonna stop them? Well, no one, of course. So let's get this situation straight. So, those who expired, Mr. Vuksic, we took them into concessions, all who expired, we took. So we don't have a topic anymore. Those who are active are active, those who today have a lifetime remain, have had to adapt to the provisions of this law. There is the biggest problem of property-legal relations that we understand, and there we need to help them in front of AUDI and... to follow them in keeping with all the necessary documents by adapting within two years. And it's a joint job of the state and the company where the state is owned by 44%. I think we'll do it together for sure. So, as far as the proceedings are going on, and you asked that, there's no one to start the procedure. I'm asking the lawyer's college why are we writing this if there's none? Well, because it's supposed to be written, it's a legal model to write. What about those who are ongoing, even though there may be none now, what if one opens up to another reading? That's what they told me. So I said good, but there's not one today just so you know the number. And we will always report in a transparent manner if any additional questions are needed. And a little clearing up the situation which is an investigative block, which is an investigative space, which is a block. What you said was an investigative space. Blocks are also defined later today if we define according to data we have from the '80s or the '70s that we barely took over from the INA and gave to the Geological Institute, they might be unserious and they don't need to define the blocks today. We'll define when we make a new strategy, when we have a new one... then we'll define how many blocks it goes in the field of investigation. Of course the research area is and the Italian side has three, well there are no three there are five, and the blocks have very many. So we'll define the blocks depending on the results of the seismics that will follow in the next half of the year. So all you know is the distribution of what's an investigative space, which is a block. And it's not supposed to be, it's never, of course, and the data that says, it's never blocks that follow the reserves that are down there even though without a drill, it's all suspicious, you see and what the estimates were before, 10 times less, 10 times more. Which is unusual. Today there are newer technologies so it can be more precise, but not absolutely until someone goes into research and spends big money in the research phase so they actually get the right numbers, so they know what's at the site. So, as far as the assessment of these capacities is concerned, it's always been a profession, with the Mining-Geological Oil Institute and members of the Committee of the Ministry of Economy are exclusively all the doctors of science from the institute and we ask them because we don't know that, I personally don't know that. We ask them and look for them, sometimes a little bit more wrong, sometimes less, sometimes they correctly evaluate everything according to their professions. They're no worse than any other scientist in the same business world. So they're in touch with us and they're taking part in all those committees and in that article where you say it would be good to include the profession, the profession is part of the ministry, and they're going to be part of the agency tomorrow, and the last line says everyone else we're going to include because we have to call people to help us, to give the best benefit to this country. That's what we'll do, of course. To give us knowledge, experience, references, bad, good examples of the world, all things to follow. It's in that last line there's good talk about it. So, how do you keep an interest? The world's practice says one thing: we go through it with a regulation later, it doesn't say it in the law. Why? Because it depends on the amount of field to be found after research and we keep the interest of the Republic of Croatia in two ways. First it's by dividing the hydrocarbons that are found and exploited. There's another fee. The fee is an amount that is interesting but never crucial. I'll just tell you the numbers, on the old concession contracts with INA, the Republic of Croatia gets 5%. The ones that came next, we get 10%. World practice is up to 50% and above that if they are larger findings. Norway can have contracts up to 70%, Norwegians. Of course, there are conditions for technology, cooperation, so there are various world experiences. These ratios weren't entirely natural in this history, so we're changing that now. And our interests will be the greatest benefit in fact I expect to be in that division of products, the hydrocarbons that will exploit and then answer the question of what will we do with it when it won't be ours? Yeah, it'll be ours. In some larger fields 1%, in smaller fields the other, everything will be clear and transparent. It will always be decided by the government, it will always be in public sessions, everything will always be known but we will have direct hydrocarbons owned by the Republic of Croatia, not just compensation. So we will be able to enter the Croatian market with that gas. And there are other mechanisms like these others, it says the right of the first class that you noticed that we can and this rest that isn't de facto can be directed to the market of the Republic of Croatia. I personally think that we will be the ones to direct this to the regional market in Hungary, Ukraine, Austria, the Czech Republic, etc. Yes, compliance is Article 2. Consistency between the Mining and Hydrocarbons Act, Article 2. There's a lot of things written about what's regulated by the Mining Act, which is the Law on Hydrocarbons. I think it's quite clear here and there's no significant overlapping. Of course something to do with this hydrocarbon law doesn't match the Mining Act. If it matches everything we don't need the law, then I don't need the lex specialis, then I can do it on that one, and I can't. And we can't mix pears and apples and the world's biggest practices say that they can't put stone exploitation and hydrocarbon exploitation into the same law, and that's why they make lex specialis. Unfortunately, he doesn't have a friend now, so I don't want a lot of questions he's offered himself, but okay. It's not because it's the thesis that we've come up with that will solve all economic and economic problems in this country. If someone had heard it at all or said it somewhere, has anyone ever written in one debate or written somewhere that I or any of my colleagues ever said that? We never said that. We're just saying that we're going to try this model aid in one piece. That all the problems will be solved? Of course they won't, nor should they. No one thought of it. So we have a thousand more mechanisms that I have to fix to improve and the the thesis that comes with it, we're going to solve the economic situation, no matter what, away from it. But that we'll be able to do it in a few years, five, six years, maybe help, yeah, sure. Here I am in the minus? Let's go fast. Yes, this is a new direction and whether we need this law, it's doubtful whether we need this law or whether we need this law or not, is it a strategy? I say that, that the strategy to use it is that you said it yourself, your production, your resources and that in this way we are correcting and affecting the open market of energy in Croatia to the extent that research works will ultimately be able to show. And I don't think this law is dangerous. It was much more dangerous and not even the law. And the INA Privatisation Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42194	Now, we've really gone a little too far for a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42195	So the INA Privatisation Act was not so dangerous but the execution of certain people who executed it was very dangerous. I don't think there's any danger here. This is a law that is before you, suggest, we will take everything in world practice into account and hope that at the second reading we will come to the best solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42196	Thank you very much. There was a minute and a half longer than expected. We have three replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42197	Dear Minister Vrdoljak, I am truly grateful that you tried to answer at this time what you had at your disposal and you really went to points and it rarely happens that the minister answers specific questions, concrete answers to what you could. Some of your answers encouraged me to take your word for it until I'm sure it wasn't, until that moment. You said if the Mining Act and this Hydrocarbon Act were the same, then we wouldn't need two laws, we could regulate it all by one law. However, it is not said that they should be the same but are contradictory at some points that is very important. They are contradictory and need to be corrected until the second reading to see what the contradiction is. I don't have that much time to explain in two minutes what it's really about. Me in your sentence that you said the interest of the Croatian division will all be transparent. I'm worried about that futur, I'm worried about it. I want it to be transparent now, to know everything, and not everything will be, you know, in some future it'll all be. It promises us all our lives that it will be better tomorrow that it will be transparent that I will live better, etc. I wonder, but when will this future come? I'd like to live in the present. So for that reason, I ask you nicely to be transparent from today, not from tomorrow, from today that everything that happens in this area that you run, be transparent. Make an exception and make it transparent. So all I asked is to be somewhere to write to make sure that the citizens are available what is not a secret. And the less secret he has, the better the state's procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42198	Thank you very much. Here's the Honorable Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42199	So just for a little while. So all I can do today is be transparent is the law, and he's here in front of you and I have nothing further to make it more transparent than the law that's here today. Of course everything else and world practice is saying that everything else is under the law. And that article that asked me who wrote it, then legal services. I'm a dipling. The electricians and I can only check with their colleagues whether it is in some benchmakt in some world practice whether it is in accordance with other Croatian laws and is. So why? What's going on? In the phase of research tens, tens, tens of millions of dollars, the euro of whatever, is invested by companies who want the data they then have from their research wells to be secret and that is world practice. And I say well, that's your data. We have them and we own them, but they have to be secret. When the exploitation starts, that's all it says in that article. I know it seems confusing to you, but it's no idea to hide anything. Don't give God a secret contract, it's not coming. You mentioned, the data is secret from those who defacto paid for it with expensive money. And after a while then it's still owned by the Republic of Croatia, after a while they're no longer secret. That's the basic purpose of the law. Secret contracts. It's on top of my head of secret contracts, they won't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42200	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42201	Thank you. Well, here you go, Mr. Minister. Read that article a little bit more in detail. I wanted to say something else that I forgot to say in the debate. We here in various proposals of the law, this story with the agencies has really gone beyond that in this country. And I don't think that as a society, we can afford to continue to build up agencies. But they're piling up in every sector, whoever comes with the laws is designing another new agency. And so I think that this hydrocarbon agency of yours could probably fit into the CEI, which has already been formed in practice with several items and the additions to the CEI statutes, so there should not be another one, another one in a series of agencies that are in this year and a half to all those previous ones, even dozens and dozens of new agencies. And he thinks there's no end to it anymore. I don't know who's gonna start paying in this country. And once the water reaches the throat, then we'll start tricking those agencies at such speeds as lightning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42202	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Ivan Vrdoljak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42203	I agree with you colleagues, there are a lot of agencies. And very often I think about whether some are necessary or not. Some, even during the negotiations with the European Commission, have some been established because we should have established them, so I was wondering why they exist. But we also need to take into account that you're saying it ourselves today, we need to engage a lot of professions that today in some business, a new job like the one that we unfortunately have in limited quantities within our ministry. I, too, really want the best Croatian experts to come to the agency with the best references. Have they ever been to the INA or worked at an institute or at the university, I don't know, but we need to open the door to come to the agency that would, tomorrow after the research phase and go into exploitation, turn into a company that then defacto at business levels can work, can work product, sell or anything, market with a part of the products in... The Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That ministry can't work. Well, the company should follow anyway. The only question is whether we're going to take these people, put them in a systematization of the ministry that's going to run this new job, or if we're going to put them in an agency that's going to end up in a company that's actually going to be a management company that can't finish, these people can't work that job from the ministry. So, I totally agree with you that a bunch of these agencies that have been noised in the channel very often by both me and you and the public and the citizens, positions, opposition, all of us, more or less, we've had phases when some cut agencies, they've connected, they've broken up, they've done things. And I know that feeling isn't bad, it's honest with you, and it's honest with me, but I think it's necessary here because this is a whole new strategic commitment where I have to bring the profession to a position that has a fast, efficient, quality position and tomorrow it's actually turning into a company that would necessarily have to come. That was the only reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42204	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it is undeniable that since the last ten years have taken place on the energy market of the world the law should have been passed. But we act like we don't have any experience in this whole story. You know exactly why INA went into this relationship with ENI the moment she went into research. It is also known that, say, at the beginning of this century, the INA was totally invaluable to draw oil in Ivanić and Podravina because the barrel of oil on the world market was $30, 35, so it was probably cheaper than what it cost. However, when the barrel went to 80, 90, 100 dollars, then the findings were very interesting and Ivanic's city was re-activated. So, just certain movements dictate some things. And we just don't have to pretend like there's nothing here, like we don't know anything. The second thing, when we talk about INA, we have 44.7% of the property and there are nearly 10,000 Croats. And if just for the sake of the interest of 10 thousand Croats that INA is not in the interest of us, then I will not use a single word of it at all. But also if anyone knows in these areas what there is, then INA knows. So he knows MOL's strategic partner. Therefore, they let them compete in the contest, however, there is something in this law bothering me, about it later on I will talk more about it and it is that INA nowhere even though the world-renowned research company could not come drilling anywhere without establishing a joint company with... The country, with no more than 25% in that company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what's missing from this law. By investing in funds you don't have at the moment, the one who comes will invest the funds and you will later return those funds to him through what is found underground. So it's something that all Arab countries have. And you don't have that in this law. You don't have that in this law. At least I couldn't read it. And later on, I'm gonna talk about this financial part, and now I don't have enough time. Therefore, we have experience. And what my fellow Drinker was saying is it's only based on those experiences that we have. And every change in the world will insist on changing this law. We may have to change it again in seven months.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42206	Thank you very much. Here is the reply of the respected Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42207	Here I am very pleased that my colleague Shuker confirmed my words when I turned to INA, if we were owners of 44%, that he could come to the competition, that we know what's going on, that it's the Croatian company he works in, I would draw the attention of 10 thousand Croatian citizens and who are very interesting and probably best known to us. And I'm glad you've confirmed my words with and some previous exposure. And second of all, check the Arab laws. In their laws, they don't write these contracts, but contracts are about the establishment of an agency,... percentages, field size. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in their laws, they also don't have the details of contracts, but all the details that are needed for exploitation, the division of products, the establishment of a company, are part of the contracts that they later follow and cannot write in law because we don't know the scope. We don't know the scope today, we don't know what they'd write if we didn't even know what was beneath our land and sea. We'll know that in three years, four years, we'll know that only then. So I just wanted to draw attention to thank you for confirming the very great importance of INA in the energy market in Croatia that we especially hold, and we agree and have great knowledge there. It is a pity that they are not fully used, and that the rest of us will, of course, be dealt with in contracts as well as in the whole smart and developed world.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42208	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to individual debates and the first one is those respected MPs of Mirala Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42209	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will support this bill that we are discussing for good luck in our first reading because I think there is plenty of room for improvement. I will support this bill because I believe it is extremely important that we move towards a significantly greater exploitation of our hydrocarbons and I am thinking primarily of gas, and yet in order to ensure greater energy independence and energy security of the Republic of Croatia. But after this, let me say a little positive start, I have to say a few criticisms, and my first criticism concerns the inconsistency of this bill with today's applicable Mining Act, and it's quite disturbing for me, given that at the moment the law entered into the procedure, the assessment of the situation of this law was in relation to, or was referred to at that time by the applicable law when you wrote obviously this text of the Mining Act and I don't think that such things should happen anyway that these unadjusted texts come from the government to the existing state. The area of hydrocarbon exploitation is a very sensitive area, and not only from the environmental protection position that I most often speak of but also from the economic interest of the state, and I fear that in Croatia we are quite deficited with expertise related to the management of serious energy projects, which we were able to convince not only in the distant past but also in the near past or even in the current situation. What exactly am I thinking about? In particular, I'm thinking of a bad situation related to the contracts we had with the Italians related to the exploitation of our gas. The second thing, I mean the current problem with the realisation of the Termoelectrica Plamin III project, which is the most related to the poor preparation of the tender documentation documents and which leads to an almost constant loss of interest by potential private partners, and I don't think that something like this can happen in the future at all. What does that tell me? This tells me that we in the field of energy don't really know what we want, and if we don't know what we want then we'll have a very hard time achieving any positive energy or economic outcome for the Republic of Croatia. Similarly unfortunately, it happened with the LNG terminal project on the island of Krk because we seem to be moving towards some potential investors without knowing what we really want, whether we want someone to be our partner or to build the terminal himself or to be our gas supplier, and I think that our positions should be absolutely clear in order to have a positive outcome related to such large energy investments. That is why I do not worry about this law from the position of environmental protection because I do not think that in the Croatian Adriatic we will have many oil sites to exploit, which could lead to potential catastrophic scenarios. I think we're going to have gas finds and we're going to be able to use it in a way to get certain amounts of hydrocarbons, but the question is, how are we going to profit from economic position and economic interest, and I think that we need to be very, very, very careful when we clearly define, unequivocally defining what we want in the tender documentation and how we're going to get to these goals? In the Republic of Croatia we have a lot of experts who participated in very serious competitions and outside the Republic of Croatia related to the exploitation of hydrocarbons and I think it is a great shame if their knowledge is not used and used by their experience in the realization of certain tenders. I appeal to you to find these people anyway, they do not only work in INA, they work today and in many companies outside Croatia, in Qatar and elsewhere, and I think that this human potential, this expert potential, is the greatest potential Croatia has in this part. And now, after this principled assessment of the law, I'm going to look back a little bit on some articles of this law, and I have to admit that I have a little confusing definition of the Agency for Hydrocarbons in Article 4 because that definition doesn't actually say anything. I think you should do a little bit more defining what the hydrocarbons Agency is. Article 6 states that the Agency's competence, paragraph 2, is to participate in the preparation, organisation and presentation of potential investors with the hydrocarbon potential of certain areas of the Republic of Croatia and to propose to the Ministry of Public Competition to choose the most favourable bidder to issue permits and conclude contracts. Given the fact that for the agency in this year, an exemption of some 400,000 kn is foreseen to begin at all, I must admit that regardless of the answer you gave me on the Committee on the Economy, I am still not sure how this agency will be financed. And I think that this should be a little bit clearer, and that it should be defined on the basis of exactly what starting data will be carried out, means organising these presentations that will introduce these potential investors to the hydrocarbon potential of certain areas of the Republic of Croatia. I got some information from the INA. Apparently, research has been conducted and I appeal that we are not at all allowed to spend unnecessary money to duplicate some kind of research. I think that we simply don't have time for such things anymore and that it wouldn't happen again that the Republic of Croatia spends money on unnecessary studies and unnecessary consultants, and unfortunately in recent years, during the HDZ mandate, we have seen more times than ever without, of course, implementing any projects. Yeah, I'm moving on with the articles. In Article 21, paragraph 3 states that the agency is obliged to assist the investor in regulating relations with owners of land particles. I think it's this little slippery terrain, because we have meaning laws that cover this area. This is a lex specialis. But I think there's still a little bit more to define exactly what that applies to, what kind of aid it really should be to investors. In Article 19, I warn, as has already been warned, that here, contrary to the applicable Law on Mining concessions is given for 30 years even though the Mining Act provides for 40 years. I am not entirely satisfied with the explanations and explanations we have heard on the boards and I think that the Republic of Croatia should be in the interest that as long as possible it receives certain amounts of money and that it has more financial benefits than the concession, than that we go to the rapid exploitation of the beds themselves. You said on the Environment Protection Committee that Croatia is getting about 400 million kuna annually from the exploitation of hydrocarbons. I think that Croatia's potential is significantly higher and that the state could make a few billion kunas there, perhaps more than that. But the basic prerequisite for this means that we must clearly define exactly what our interest is to be protected not only in energy and environmental terms but also in what is most important in financial terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42210	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42211	Dear colleague Holly, this is what you asked, in fact, you have troubled the intervention of the agency between the company that investigates or which draws and the owner of the land. I think it makes sense because just when I was talking, it happens often in practice when someone is ruling to respect the power of the company, not the right of the owner of the land. And I think it's a duty for the agency to protect the rights of the owner, but when it comes between the companies and the owners, I think it protects the interests of the state. I don't think it's in the law, maybe as you said it should be specified, explained, because the agency certainly has no right to interfere either in the business of the company or in the right of the owner, but I think it may be a welcome mediator with a clearer agreement with you instructions in the law, or regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42212	Thank you very much. She'll be answered by the esteemed representative, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42213	Dear colleague, I think the basic idea of forming different agencies was just to separate certain professional jobs from those administrative affairs related to some matter. Unfortunately, the practice so far has shown that this is not really working properly. And I think that this kind of sensitive thing about expropriation, so I'm not really sure they should be in the jurisdiction of the agencies that should actually be doing professional work. And I think that really the proposer of this law until the second reading has to pay a little more attention to these very things so that he doesn't be in collegiate with some laws that regulate this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42214	Thank you very much. The replica was also reported by a respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Holly, you have well defined that this law may in fact be one of the greatest shortcomings of this law which, with some provisions, has entered too much into lex specialis laws that regulate this and for other investors for which perhaps even Croatia is far more interested than this part. And that may be a great lack of this law. At the same time, certain provisions that may have been to be clarified by this law have remained at the principle level. So this is the law, first of all, to regulate how concessions will be distributed, the exploitation of gas and oil in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and that is what this law should be dealt with. I will later in my individual discussion talk about this financial part that I have never seen in any law. You mentioned this property-legal part, which should be done by AUDI, if the government has passed a law that helps investors, I don't see what this should be specifically emphasized here and get into certain things. And then you come into disharmony with that law. What's going to happen is if the law changes tomorrow, then this law has to change, too. And this law should primarily stick to concessions and exploits and more elaborate things. Because obviously from today's debates, there are a lot of questions left in the air. And these many questions in the air unfortunately, this law covers a certain veil of secrets. And since it's billions, because it's not small funds, then the logical thing is that all kinds of stories will be intertwined in Croatia and there'll be corruption before anything else at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42216	Thank you very much. She'll be answered by a distinguished representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42217	Dear counterpart Shuker, therefore, I really believe that a law that will regulate the exploitation of hydrocarbons is needed precisely in order to make it easier for these projects to be realised in order to have, to have, have greater amounts of gas as an extremely important energy that will certainly have an increasing importance in the years to come. And I think it's a shame we don't take advantage of those potentials. I believe that the laws must not be complicated, that the laws must be very simple and must in some way be written with the most understood language in order to avoid wrong interpretations or searching for certain gray zones because unfortunately, in Croatia, we talk very often about corruption at the highest political level, and I think there is a lot of corruption in Croatia at that civil level. And this contributes to the very complicated laws that leave different interpretation options that enable officials to make different distribution decisions. Of course, as the Croatian Parliament and MPs, and in the end both the media and in general, you mean that you cannot control the opposition as a corrective factor, or we cannot control all these processes, and therefore I believe that the law must be very, very well written in order for these manipulations to be possible as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42218	Thank you very much. The following came to light for the debate, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's what I've mentioned on several occasions, I'm going to give another dimension to this Law on hydrocarbon research and exploitation. In fact, this is what I was saying in replicas as well as that this law defines and regulates the way in which hydrocarbons are explored and exploited, and as a basis for the exploitation of hydrocarbons, it is also a strategy of spatial order that we discussed in the Croatian Assembly two days ago, and which we will probably adopt by the majority tomorrow. And I'm not afraid, nor am I, nor is my colleague Holly, of the danger of environmental pollution, primarily in the part that concerns the continental part of Croatia. I express my concern for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the part of the epicontinental belt that stretches outside the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the epicontinental belt represents the seabed and its underground that extends from the seashore to the border of demarcation with neighbouring countries in the largest part of Italy but also with Montenegro and Slovenia, etc. In that part of the epicontinental belt that extends beyond the borders of the territorial sea, there is no county, no city, no municipality in the Republic of Croatia, because it is neither territory nor aquaculture within the county, or urban and municipal borders, but it is exclusively that epicontinental belt in the territorial jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia, so beyond the county borders. There is no space-plan document in that space that regulates the conduct of the epicontinental belt. This is where the Government will call for a programme of spatial arrangements that the government will make within 30 days after this decision adopted tomorrow by the Parliament comes into force. In these 30 days neither will the Croatian public nor the representatives of the Croatian Parliament nor the ecological association in Croatia, nor will anyone be able to refer to any planned unexplored locations for the exploration of hydrocarbons in the epicontinental belt. Which means that, past the public, the government will be able to set 12 miles of nautical miles from Vis, Mljet, Korucula or any middle Dalmatian island where there are already significant depths and where it is not easy to draw hydrocarbons from that underground will be allowed to allow access to these hydrocarbon fields. In the Republic of Croatia, we are conducting very demanding procedures that can last years to adopt an environmental impact study, and let's say for one such process that will take place in the Adriatic Sea beyond the borders of the territorial sea we will not conduct such a comprehensive debate that will talk about whether it is truly justified and to what extent such a process is dangerous to endanger the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea and a process in which we can demonstrate ourselves through public debate about such a demanding process. I mentioned this earlier, what a hararium of such a project can do for tourism in the Adriatic, which can be done for the marine environment. It is therefore incomprehensible to me and unacceptable to me that the Government is adopting a programme of spatial regulation at a time when we join the EU, when we bring into this House the Nature Protection Act, when we pass in this law in a few days and the Environmental Protection Act that we do one spatial arrangement program without strategic environmental impact assessment and that we all care about it. I just can't figure it out. The second thing I also mentioned on the Environmental Protection Committee was my question, is the government aware and is it true, this is my information, that the neighbouring country of Montenegro in the part of the area governed by the interim protocol on the border regime south of Prevlaka, which is the border between Croatia and Montenegro in that part of the territorial sea that belongs to the Republic of Croatia, is already being explored for the purpose of the exploitation of hydrocarbons? This is more unacceptable because the interim protocol on the border regime between Croatia and Montenegro, or the moment it was signed, was between Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia today, Montenegro expired on 10 December 2012. and I didn't hear that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that the government went with one single word to look at what and how and how further with setting the border down in southern Croatia south of Prevlaka. And it is in this area that according to international rule should belong to the Republic of Croatia, and international law says that the border on that part should go along the middle of the land border near Prevlaka and at half the distance between the island of Mamula and Punta, RT Sharply and all the way to the border with the border of the neighbouring country of Italy, and precisely in that area which, according to international law, should belong to the island of Mamula and Punta, Montenegro is already doing research. I asked you a question on the board, and I said get ready to ask you that question at the plenary session. Is that true that it's done? If it's done, are we familiar with it as Government? If we are aware of what we have done to warn the neighbouring country that until this protocol is resolved on the temporary regime of the border in southern Croatia? What are we going to do, what are we going to do and whether the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia are affected? So to conclude, I hold that this law in this part in which it will be derived from the Mining Act is good, and I support that, but the approach that this law provides for also the procedure that we bring in the basic documents of the spatial document that will allow in the epicontinental band research and exploitation of hydrocarbons beyond the public debate that is necessary for where and how more benevolent and simpler processes for me are unacceptable. And that the government does and proposes to this Parliament and publicly says that we will bring a document that will allow this to happen within 30 days past the procedure that all the laws that are currently in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Nature Protection Act, are unacceptable to me. I don't mind if all the parameters show that this is really possible in a location outside the territorial sea to exploit and oil and gas, but I have no objection to that being done outside the public eye, outside the debate that needs to be conducted in order to exploit hydrocarbons in an epicontinental belt particularly speaking outside the borders of the territorial sea. And one more thing, I hear that the Republic of Italy has already stopped further research in the Adriatic Sea, I hear that there is an initiative that the Adriatic Sea is declared a protected area in accordance with the rules of the international maritime organisation because if we have protected the Adriatic Sea it will be afraid that the Adriatic Society will have large quantities of ballast waters landed in the Adriatic and that same Society of Adria where it is only 5 million tonnes which is not small or 10 million tonnes we have through the Environmental Impact Study proved that this project is harmful to Croatia. It is not clear to me that we can in the project of research and exploitation of such sites that can be more extensive, richer, more abundant in the part relating to the exploitation and exploitation of oil than the Adria Society, that we are developing this project, that the government is giving him a blessing and that the Croatian public has no opportunity to do so through a process that is necessary that would be acceptable to make it known. I therefore warn that it is good that we are passing this law but we are following it with proper documentation, let us not do it outside the public's eyes any more than I say much of these planned fields is beyond the reach of the spatial plans that are being adopted in the process which is highly acceptable and to the public, which then such processes can certainly prevent appropriate environmental impact studies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42220	Thank you very much. We have one replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42221	Dear colleague Bacic, you have asked two questions that are very important. One question is what you were finally saying, actually, the safety of research into protecting the Adriatic from the possible handiwork as far as I can tell. The exploration of oil, the exploitation of the future of oil as harmful as it can be, which can be caused in the Adriatic, and we talked on the Committee on the Economy about how much more useful it is. How much oil is there? Can oil platforms do more damage than any use? And the other thing is that you have problems with, which is Croatian wound cancer, that is, relations with neighbours or borders with neighbours. You mentioned the border with Montenegro. And we really should get an answer if the Montenegrins are investigating with our permission. It's very important, whether or not we know about these researches, whether it's true that they are investigating and what we're doing is not happening anymore. You said 31. The temporary regime ended on 12 last year. What's next? Croatia did not answer that question because we should have given some initiative. Maybe we're waiting for one. Seven, because you know that one. 7. is the date when everything changes in our lives and everything will be better, clearer, etc. Well, probably after one. The government of the Republic of Croatia will raise the issue of border regulation with Montenegro.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42222	Thank you very much. We have a response from the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, I'm not a bogeyman and I don't want to scare anyone with environmental pollution because we're about to go into a hydrocarbon exploitation project. But when, I want to do it again. When two days ago we are discussing a strategy of spatial order in which we are talking about new potential findings of hydrocarbons in the middle, and especially in the southern Adriatic, then I would like to say that it is not and it has already been spoken today, it is not all the same to exploit oil or gas at 30, 40 meters deep in the northern Adriatic and at depths not less than 300 meters down to 1,000 meters in the southern Adriatic. I don't know where that potential find is but it's pretty dangerous to access hydrocarbon exploitation at depths above or below 300, 400, 500 meters. And the difference is in the north where there are now platforms where that depth is significantly smaller. And now, for this reason, it is unacceptable for me to do so through the relevant document we do not declare ourselves or ask anyone in this country, who was asked other than us that we will adopt the Strategy and that after tomorrow the strategy is adopted within 30 days, the document that will enable all of this together. Within 30 days. And one study, I say, a simple environmental impact study that solves kudikamo and simpler projects. I said a wind farm that could have 2, 3 wind power plants last a few months if not a few years. We've been discussing wind power plants for years and the possibility of exploiting oil at 600 meters deep tells us the minister might already start next year. We don't know what the location is, we don't know who's going to do it, we don't know if it's possible to do it, we don't know what the quantities are. We are promised to exploit oil in those depths in a few months.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42224	Thank you very much. The next presentation will be a respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry of Economy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, listening to this debate, I really can't help but think that we don't know which country we live in. Well, INA used to be the leading research and drilling company. INA naphthaplin and her Crosco were in the world of recognised companies. Also, the Faculty of Mining and Geological Oil in Zagreb has been doing research. And now very interestingly, we want to put the story in public all the time that INA isn't interested in drilling. So what company that had all the benefits and similarities in one country wouldn't have drawn practically the money that was so offered. It's just one question for all of us. Another thing, when we talk about energy independence. So look, up until a few years ago, Croatia also had gas from the northern Adriatic. We also had gas practically at the borders of Croatia. However, until the pipeline was made from Fažana to Zagreb and until an interconnection was made towards Hungary, we were panicking as soon as it started to talk that the Ukrainians would close the pipe. But now that we've opened practically two new passageways so we can buy from whoever we want practically gas in Europe and in North Africa, then we can say that we have great energy independence. Because if there is energy in the world market, you have money to buy it, then you have energy independence. It doesn't have to mean that if you have a well at home, it's your energy independence. Because look, INA got into trouble because she was selling both gas and oil derivatives below the price. So there are a lot of questions that are being answered. And this energy independence can develop an entire scientific debate. But I only bring you back to the time of the crisis, the Russian Ukrainian crisis when the pipes to Ukraine were closed, Croatia was in a lot of trouble. Why? Because she just didn't have an alternative direction. The gas pipeline that went through Slovenia was not enough to cover Croatian needs. However, at the moment when we made the pipeline on Fažana to Zagreb we practically everything that belongs to us per quota, and even the Italian part if we do not need to bring the Italians to Croatian citizens and Croatian economies because we have made a prerequisite for it. Also, the interconnection to Hungary has created conditions and today, Petrochemy in Kutina can choose a supplier of whatever they want for a cheaper gas. So that's one thing. And what I said and the minister and I'll do it again. INU, we have 44.7% of INAs. And out of these billion and 300 profits this year, we have 44%. So we're talking about some kind of company like this or something, and why don't we agree with a strategic partner, after all, INA's management rights aren't any bigger now than they were in the 2003 contract. And according to the 2003 contract, no investment greater than 80 million kuna could have been made without Hungarian consent. And in the oil industry investment 80 million kunas it's the same story as if we fellow MPs were invited down here for coffee to the bar. But good. What I've replicated to my colleague Holly, after all, is what she said in her original debate, and you other colleagues say that this Law is too much into some laws that are legitimately special, this article 40 is totally unclear to me. And I, frankly, is not clear at all how the Ministry of Finance is if it has written a positive opinion of this law at all. Starting with the foreign inspectorate, actually the financial inspectorate, through the tax administration further. And now I'm going to quote the provisions because I just don't think they have anything to do with this law. For the purpose of carrying out mining works, the investor has the right to open and hold a bank account in the Republic of Croatia and to conduct banking transactions in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia. What does that mean? Do you think someone will come and drill in Croatia that they will not open a company through which they will operate? How's he gonna hire workers? Well, you know the basic thing about a resident and a non-resident. So is it in our interest to give us researchers' work in the Republic of Croatia and drilling it by someone who has no legal subjectivity in the Republic of Croatia. None of these countries have allowed themselves, so neither will Croatia. Read paragraph 1, says the investor is authorised to enter into contracts with legal persons in the Republic of Croatia with the application of relevant currency clauses and payment in foreign currency. The means of payment in the Republic of Croatia is kuna, so you even have a provision from '95. In the laws of the Republic of Croatia, no other currency can be used except for the kuna and it can be written equivalent to so much and so much currency. The second thing, we keep talking when he wants us to do political stories that we don't want the currency clause on loans, we sign some currency clause, and we're trying to get into the euro zone in two, three years, so the exact opposite of this government's policy, but the pearls are coming now. As part of the implementation of mining works, the investor is obliged to pay the following taxes and contributions, as well as other special fees. Gentlemen, the Income Tax Act, the Tax Tax Act, the Law on Special Taxes, the VAT Act defines who is a taxpayer in the Republic of Croatia, and you have neither the right nor the right to determine this law. And secondly, someone who is more than 182 days in Croatia is a taxpayer of income tax in Croatia. According to what this provision means to you, it's not clear to me. Compensation in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia and the type of contract concluded and the rate in force at the time of signature of the contract and which will remain in force during the whole duration of the contract, the bonus in accordance with the contract in law, VAT if the investor sells the hydrocarbons to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. What you are referring to here is precisely known by the amendments to the VAT Act which is an obligor and of all the members of the European Union in which to pay and where VAT is and what is the mutual reporting of the participating countries in transport. So here you are violating the provisions of the VAT Act, which was in the parliamentary procedure the day before yesterday and which will probably be adopted tomorrow. Taxes and contributions related to work relations as well as other social contributions in accordance with specific regulations applicable in the Republic of Croatia. Well, look, you know that workers who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia are obliged to pay, and those who come from outside must first of all get a quota in order to get a work permit in the Republic of Croatia. And according to these international agreements, exactly what they pay Croatia, what they pay the host country. That's what they're called. those detectives that Croatian companies had in Germany. What does that mean to you here in law enforcement? So the logical thing is if someone works in Croatia that they will pay taxes and contributions, how else they will be employed. The rules and procedures relating to the application of international avoidance agreements apply. The rules of international accounting standards shall not apply. When you get to a base that is taxed and then you still have the provisions of Croatian law that release income taxes for those who invest above so much and so many years, and the contract to avoid double taxation only regulates the obligations of those who pay taxes in Croatia, and the taxpayer is somewhere else, as countries have regulated each other not to pay taxes twice and over. But the determination of taxpayers is determined in accordance with international accounting standards and in accordance with the Accounting Act and the Profit Tax Act. The Tax on Profits Act defines exactly what tax obligations are, and here it can only be said about the tax on profit. You have one provision that the INA has made with... where it says that the part that pays that INA pays and tax obligations. Yeah, but then the basis is that total, the tax part is the tax base, not the part that needs to be paid... so pay taxes because INA costs the total part. So that should be clearly defined, these are very dangerous provisions and so I'm surprised that colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, the IRS, gave the green light on this. All income defined under the contract as a result of the implementation of mining works will be included in the investor's gross income based on which the profit tax will be calculated in accordance with this law. How can you count the profit tax according to this law, gentlemen of the Ministry of Economy. How can you count on profit tax according to this law? So one firm has a number of other costs besides exploitation and its total cost difference between income and expenditure in accordance with the Accounting Act and the Tax on profit,... basis... profit tax but you... that they will pay profit tax according to this law. So this is a law that regulates the exploitation of minerals, actually hydrocarbons and oil, gas and oil, nothing else. This law doesn't regulate paying taxes. And he says, other revenues of investors who are not the result of mining work will be included in gross income for tax purposes in accordance with tax laws. I mean, this is real, so don't be angry with the Department of Economy gentlemen, but it's funny. Well, it's known exactly when one firm is doing business, which means her income, so she has to record them all in her bookkeeping. I mean, these gentlemen from the Department of Economy don't listen. So this is something which, Article 40, would be best if you completely removed it from the law or if you want to mention taxes then say that all taxes will be based on this law if, I haven't finished, I can ask for another 5 minutes on behalf of the club if you agree, to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42226	We'll do better by the rules and you'll be looking for five minutes on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42227	Here I'm looking for five minutes on behalf of the club because there's really to define this because this is with... so this article 40 is very...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42228	No, no, but we have to go lay artis, so first we'll have replicas and then the distinguished representative Ivan Schuker will say on behalf of the club. We have four replicas. The first one is those respected MPs, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42229	It's very short since we're all pretty tired already. In fact, I wanted to warn you that we do not need to pursue energy security and energy independence. So what you're talking about is energy security. Energy independence implies that the state has its own energy sources, regardless of whether fossil fuels or renewable energy sources, and to what extent it has its own energy potentials, is able to meet its energy needs. And what you're talking about is a matter of energy security, or the security of the supply of energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42230	The reply to the replica will be given by the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42231	Yeah, I know exactly what energy independence is, what energy security is. However, if the exploitation is as expensive as that is why I spoke in the reply to the minister. So there were times when the exploitation of Ivanic-city and the exploitation of Podravina as far as oil was concerned was too expensive because oil on the world market was much cheaper than this domestic one. And then the question arises is whether energy independence is much cheaper if you have an energy that is too expensive, and you can come up with energy that is much cheaper on the world market. That's two things I can't tell myself. They are by definition what you said, but I think if you make an infrastructure story, then there are two things that are highly compatible and that are very complementary to each other and the smart boss decides what's at his convenience. I think you agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42232	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you have presented in your presentation a series of doubts or illogicalities from that financial aspect that this Law implies. In my 10 minutes, I couldn't express what at least now I'm going to mention some more of the illogicalities that are written in this law. But first of all, I want to say it's good and thank God that this law is in the first reading, so we'll probably be able to fix it significantly until the second reading. I am surprised that this assembly is almost empty, we are not 15, 20 MPs, and this is the most important or most important law that has come to me in this year and a half in this House and Minister Vrdoljak if he were another ten years minister and I hope it won't be long, because very soon, the extraordinary elections would not have a more important document that he would have proposed to this House. And that is why I would like to and would like to get an indication of certain ministries and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs on the text of this law in the process while this law was in the government's procedure. I would like to know if, in one word, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs mentioned that some of the locations listed in the strategy are located on the so-called so-called "Source". Separate navigation schemes that represent highways on the Adriatic. In the Adriatic, over two, or over a thousand tankers, carrying 10 million tons of oil heading towards Trieste, Koper, Rijeka, and the northern Adriatic. And these tankers, they say, are somewhere around 1,000 that are ingesting and that are actually passing through that highway or a separate navigation scheme. These schemes draw potential findings, on these schemes, on these highways of the sea are drawn these potential findings which are drawn in the strategy. I'm interested in whether the Department of Maritime Affairs referred to that part in one word. I am interested in the position of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the position of the Ministry of Spatial Planning when it comes to the proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42234	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If my colleague Bacic had certainly discussed this impressively in front of such a crowded assembly, we were mostly 17, 7 ruling and 10 opposition. We 10 opposition are firm and... And these rulings are on fire at this moment at five. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so, it just shows how much interest it is. However, I am pleased that those who have debated, regardless of the ruling, at the position and opposition, we have all warned in principle that there are certain provisions in this law that have entered into some other areas and that should be brought into line with these laws, with these ministries. And they'd probably get a law that's good. Because it is not disputed that the law should be passed. It is not disputed that if there are opportunities for this state to get something to exploit it. But it is also taught by all the bad experiences, unfortunately many more bad than the good in recent years need to be done very well. And secondly, let's not be fooled that they will pile up a variety of big world concerts in Croatia for drilling, because they have far more space if they find it far more interesting because of the political balance in the world where they will drill, far more to drill and far more scold political cards than there is political stability at the level. And there are no political problems. So this is almost our internal problem if we're going to use something, if we're willing to sacrifice something we're dealing with, and we're proud of something that's one big questionnaire.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42236	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42237	Comrade Shuker, your debate and the doubt you have put on me is pretty much on the trail of what I'm thinking, and I have to admit that article 40, as well as that article on the protection of the confidentiality of information, so I don't know if they would call it awkward or actually agree with legal regulations. Therefore, it would best fit certain potential investors, given that some are mentioned in the media. By the way, this bill was followed by media to say some dust. Here come hundreds of millions of euros, they're about to, here they are tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, a billion are here somewhere. As soon as we vote between a few hundred million and a billion euros, here's just the beginning of drilling and it's written in the media. There are a whole series of such nonsense that can be read, the simple untruths but I think these few articles of the law that I don't actually see that they could be justified that they are written in any way through the prism of the protection of Croatian interests. More that they are written in a direction or perhaps in agreement with already agreed future investors. In fact, I would express that concern that this is why some of the provisions of the articles are written in this way, and if I could further speculate then this is the way the solution always reminds investors from such a remote overseas country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42238	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42239	If my colleague Djurovic had wanted to warn me about this, I would not have liked to use the hard word, but let's use the nebulous provisions of Article 40 because it is not clear why they are here. And the other thing, the key provision that I've been trying to read all the time from the debate of the minister of this law, and this, which is why I did emphasize this 1st paragraph of Article 40, is that we do what everyone just does that gave concessions. The research and exploitation company must be registered in Croatia. Who's gonna own it? Well, at the end of the day, as soon as you get out on the stock market, you can't tell who's gonna own it. We in Syria, even though INA had great business results, had a great business reputation, we couldn't get more than 25%. So, the Syrian Ministry of Oil, Industry and INA company 25% owner of INA, 75% owner... And despite that H1 block within a 30-mile radius, you've got two more wells. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One is Canadian oil and the other is made by the Syrians from the Russians and then bought it at a given moment from the Russians on the same almost principle. The INA also worked in Egypt as a joint venture with Egypt, called INA Egypt, and I think the company was sold in the meantime. So that's what's not in the law, and I don't think any investor would object to being such an obligation to deal with, it's actually a logical thing if you go somewhere to start a company, get rid of a billion and five hundred problems when you start a domicile. However, this law is now offering something that is contrary. So, it's said, says he can, actually keep a bank account in the Republic of Croatia. He has the right to open and keep bank accounts in the Republic of Croatia. So this clearly indicates how much we want to protect Croatian interests. And that's what's most controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42240	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42241	Dear fellow Shuker, I also replicated the article 40 that you spoke of most where currency clauses are allowed. You said one sentence to me in your discussion that you find it strange to see how the currency clause is stimulated here, and this government is against the currency clause. The government has rejected proposals to abolish the currency clause, thus the government only confirms its intensity that it is for the currency clause. However, the currency clause has not been nickeled in the last 15 months, the currency clause is a rule established in business many years ago, right? With that, as we Croatian Labourists claim, we have lost financial sovereignty. And that financial sovereignty is also encouraged in this law, not sovereignty. This is what you rightly asked, who exactly is being favored here? No, he says in what you've just read, the investor has the right to open an account, it might be thought that the wells will be exterior, that it won't be on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so maybe that's why. I don't know, maybe we can pass some new law. In fact, all of these suggestions that are actually naive suggestions if we stick to the law and they conflict with all the other provisions of the law, especially those of the financial laws, are just saying that at least when we first read to investors and tell them we had a good will, but the wicked opposition noticed that it was as unfortunate as you said and actually contrary to financial laws. Well, now we have to put it on. I don't know, I don't know what the point of this is. Actually, it's tragic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42242	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, John Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42243	Look, colleague Vuksic, from a statement by the Minister and a representative of the Government, I, as an uninformed citizen of the Republic of Croatia, got the impression that Croatia is a very good married man in this sphere. That's how it was shown in the media. So millions and millions of tons of oil gas cubes exist in Croatia. So if you are a good widower, then he who desires to marry you will certainly bow down to you, that he may lead you to the altar. So, if it is true that there are so many millions of cubic gas and so many millions of tons of oil then the logical thing is that whoever wants to drill in Croatia will be in his best interest to touch the Republic of Croatia. So, to open up a company at her place. Opening a company if you want to work in a country clearly shows your good will to be part of the daily life of a nation and of a country. It's your business world's most normal thing. You can say even one very cheap joke, but great. Because people look different, no matter what the company's name is, but if it's registered in Croatia, it's a Croatian firm. It is the work of Croatian citizens, she pays taxes in the Republic of Croatia. Who owns it? Well, that doesn't matter to us. It is important to us that it employs 5, 10, 15 thousand Croats and that it brings us hundreds of millions of profits tomorrow. She's ours. Because when you go to the stock market, you don't know who's gonna buy you. And that's the problem with this law that we put ourselves here as poor, miserable, no one will. Well, there can be even if they want to open an account in the Republic of Croatia. And at the same time the announcements are we have something to give. That is why I have taken advantage of this popular concept of rich drowning because it is close to every man in Croatia. And we simply, if this is true that we have so many supplies, that's what we are. Therefore, whoever wants to come to Croatia, whoever wants to win the concession, show good will to be a daily factor in the life of the Republic of Croatia, its citizens and the institutions of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42244	Thank you very much. Here's what ended the individual debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the final presentation will now be held by distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42245	So I apologize, but I have a few more sentences to say about this article 40. I didn't want to talk about these other articles because I don't think I'm professional enough to talk about them, but that's why my colleague Bačić and my colleague, Poppie, have been great at elaborated on behalf of the club, and in the end when we agree on all this together that's what HDZ's attitude is. Just as I said it was our position in this same House at a very similar time with a very similar number of MPs when we were against INA sales actually against the INA Sales Act in 2002. No matter what happens after that, it's gone to HDZ. However, INA management rights were sold in 2003. Look at the contract and you'll see. This one was unfortunately only late for upgrades, but today if we want good for Croatia and good INA is a Croatian company in which it works almost 10,000 Croats and we must not exclude it from this story, we must not have any privileges but we must not rule it out. But I will return to this financial legal section, so paragraph 7. Other revenues from investors who are not the result of mining work will be included in gross tax revenues. So watch this for someone who doesn't have anything to do with the economy. I wouldn't understand. If a citizen of the Republic of Croatia has to report any lip he gets somewhere and then at the Tax Administration, see if she's been treated taxfully or not, how can it be that someone who wants to do serious work we tell him that the other revenues that he accidentally achieved by some other activities in the Republic of Croatia, let's say someone there was a well at 50m depth to get to the water because this may be funny but here is a colleague, Mr. Kovacic, who until yesterday was the Mayor of Ivanić of the City he well knows that the complete water infrastructure of Ivanić Grada and Ivanićka was practically owned by INA. INA did it and they used the in-house wells, so there's a lot of other things along with those wells on the continent. In '98, Zagreb County dealt with this ownership relationship with INA regarding Ivanićska Posavina, I know very well and I know what I'm saying. But I'm saying that any company that comes to work in some area may have other activities but it's not the ministry gentlemen... the subject of this law, it just isn't. It's the subject of all other laws in the Republic of Croatia and he just needs that article 40. You need to move out. Instead of this Article, 40. should be placed that a potential concessionaire and potential one who will be a researcher must register a company in the Republic of Croatia. it must be Article 40. And then we have all the provisions that are regulated by all the other laws. Just like her colleague Holly and her colleague Bacic used to say. But since it's pretty late, I think we've made a lot of useful suggestions today. I sincerely hope that the Ministry of Economy gentlemen will agree and that in the debate in the second reading we will be able to say that one very important law for the Republic of Croatia is very much supported, that tomorrow we do not call each other that we have sold out national wealth in one way or another rather than clearly defining the rules of the game. What we have and what our fortune is to use and not to be in debt outside. The biggest tragedy will be if we misdefined the rules. And I further want to say something about concession fees, according to EU directives of 1.1.2014, the minimum concession fee is 15% and all INA contracts that are less concession than 1.1.2014 have to come to 15%, so it is not the exact one that someone here has been saying. The second thing we always hear in our ears is a statement from a colleague of the then-Norway Finance Minister who said since they live very modestly, we weren't always rich, we always had gas and oil, we were once poor. Now we've got a special fund in which we're postponing that money for the dark days. And we started to deploy these money somewhere in the air long before we got to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42246	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word has been respected by Deputy Economy Minister Mr. Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The minister presented the debates by clubs but I boomed a little over the comments that were now near the end. The first part relating to the veil of the secret of this law, i.e. the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, seems to me to have passed an undetected contest that the former government launched the day after the 2011 elections when we announced in just 30 days at the NN for the investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the continent. You know very well that it was 14 investigative fields that we had to cancel and what contest had to be annulled. So much for the veil of secrets. The other important thing is the term plan. The terming plan for the adoption of this law is one of the dice that will be agreed upon and finally itself is the investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons. As you know, the law we had up until before the Mining Act, and after the Mining Act is now in this Assembly, the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons was that we had the procedure of two public tenders and the complete uncertainty of investors in the field of research and exploitation. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why investors were not so interested in coming to Croatia because in the end, if you had done what was quality and which made it possible, they would probably have discussed a slightly different space and research and exploitation in Croatia today. But after the law, we're preparing the data. It is that the other thing that is very interesting, which is that the Croatian government only made it through last year and part of this year to collect its property, which is seismic 2D data. So far, as you know, they have been located in the INA, now at the Institute of the Croatian Institute, the Geological Institute. For the first time data transfer takes that, data transfer takes about a year for which there are records. So the data, although it was owned by us and not in Croatia, was under Croatian authority. It's also a good, interesting thing maybe when we talk about serious, exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation. The third important thing is the contest. If the 2011 tender is opened for 1 month, it means during Christmas and New Year's holidays that are thanked to God by this government and annulled, serious things are done for 6 months and another minimum 6 months after the invitation to tender. So this is a serious job that's been arranged for serious market behaviours that world practice knows today. This is the Law that used all the practice that exists today on the European market. We begin with Cyprus, which has almost the same law as the Republic of Croatia. We start with Norway, the Netherlands and Italy, we end up in the countries of Asia or North Africa. All these countries have experience and knowledge about this law and best standards have been applied and implemented in this law. Five years of investigation, 25 years of exploitation, 30 years in total. As regards compliance, Article 2 has fully defined in paragraph 2 the compliance of the mining law, which is the jurisdiction of the Law, i.e. the Law on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and other laws governing that matter. As for the fee, the esteemed representative said that Croatia, the budget, or deserves more revenue than concession fees. Yes, 5, and 10%, regardless of the European Directive of 2014, European practice is 45%, but it goes up to 60%, as you well know, 60% and some percent has Cyprus. These indicators in Cyprus also show that when discussing the depth and quality of the investigative space, that is, the findings will also depend on the compensation that will be made. The more eruptivative or the more oil there is, the more oil that goes out without additional impressions, or to be honest, the more gas goes first, the more oil, or condensation, then the more compensation it gets, the more the country's budget is being charged. As for the things asked by the esteemed representative Bačić, says in the repetitorrum est model studiorum, on the Committee you were told that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, met the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs about the dispute that Montenegro opened the tender. The same one... The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on two occasions between 2012 and 2013, also referred to the Republic of Croatia's position in Montenegro. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to be clear, there's no research in that area. No research whatsoever. We only have a pleminary competition because only 15 companies are allowed to report to the competition that will be when the authorities of Montenegro dissipate. Also, the authorities of Montenegro do not yet have a plan to call a bid to explore hydrocarbon exploitation. And, however, we expect a meeting soon and Deputy Minister of Economy of Montenegro in the Republic of Croatia. The contacts with them are very intense and we know the problem of border division in the area... and solves it together, the Foreign Ministry is working on the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another important thing about security, I don't know how familiar it is. This Law is not only a law relating to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and which cleans the foundation of its economic essence from the research and compensation that comes from the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. This law allows... development of Croatian shipbuilding, i.e. platform, knowledge of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The knowledge of Croatian shipyards and people working in Croatian shipyards is unquestionable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The example, the Labin platform, is today located in a remont at the Uljannik Shipyard, for what? For some 12 years, she was drilling in the area of the Italian part of the Adriatic Sea. Now it has to be executed, it has another 5 years of contract, but it has, it is working on an exploitation field in the northern Adriatic, it has got a job and has to start drilling in Croatian space. To be able to drill has to perform a remont, not because of its problem that it has and it has to end the remont because only when changes are made that are much stronger and much more intensely monitored and the protection of the environment is much higher than on... according to the Italian side to make from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and the Croatian Register of Ex Agency and the Croatian Register of Ships could get permission to perform there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, perhaps one correction to a part of your comment on security and independence of energy. And that part that gas pipelines are allowed Petrochemy to have cheaper gas, or other suppliers, is not true, is done by this Government with the Gas Market Act and the Energy Act, which allows any user or anyone who needs gas to have two sources of gas supply. It is therefore possible for Petrochemy to get a more favourable price for 20% of its capacity available because it has a long-term contract, has a natural gas contract 80% is fixed, 20% can get on the market from a new one, from another gas supplier. In the same way as the Law itself and the comments that were made here in this debate. We all agree that this Law is also a very important law, as you yourself have here today, has a long-term, economic, but in the first, long-term, long-term impact on the economy in Croatia, I am not talking about the result or what it will bring or will not bring into economic terms. Because just so you know an exploitation field of 2,000 km square, so we define Croatia's space, exploitation fields or blocks are defined according to the measurements that go, seismics is now 2D, To have a better seismicism, you have 3D seismics. What Croatia currently does not have and will now start seismic investigations in the Adriatic area. And just to explain one more thing here, we're not just talking about the Adriatic, we're talking about the continental part of Croatia, we're talking about Dinarids and the space of exploitation of research in the Dinarid area. So each of these spaces has specificities and depths of the space where the gas is located. What is here to point out is that the interest in investigations in Croatia is much greater than that of the old Mining Act, which was adopted in 2010, 2011 and in '09 respectively. And '11. the year, and what sd is allowing investor security and, of course, that this law in two readings through these comments that are presented here in the Assembly today enables even more quality and even better use of the potential that Croatia has in the field of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42248	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42249	... I don't even understand why he's so bile in your debate because there's just no reason for it, and another thing whenever you claim things, then you should be informed. [[Last-on speaker]] First, when I was talking about petrochemicals until there was no interconnection with Hungary, there was no chance that petrochemicals would buy Pliva from anyone else. So then I was talking about infrastructure to create preconditions for something. That's my whole debate. So I don't see how they could have passed a law on market liberalisation if you weren't infrastructureally prepared for it, if you couldn't just let some other people on the market. But you're talking about documentation, so I was quoting the 2002 INA sales law, so whoever was selling INA sold that file to one of the others. And the other thing, I keep saying all the time, you're confusing the concepts. INA is a Croatian company and therefore everything in the interest of the Republic of Croatia the Croatian state can agree with a strategic partner. But I repeat, that file went off in 2002, didn't leave in 2010. So don't get into any political debates where you're pretty thin. The contest, look, the contest is called, you have annulled it because you thought it was not good. Did anyone object to you? Is there any evil done in this contest? No, but you're saying that... it's the same story that I'm telling you right now, you and this law are going to get you something tomorrow, you're going to do somebody good. So if it's a contest, then it means it's something public, it's not hidden, it's covered by a veil of secrets. So all those who are now saying that they are interested in Croatia, so they are not some kind of worldly sucker, they know very well what they have in Croatia, they would probably report to that competition. And they're not the kind of guys who're going to question what he's got now, so I'm going to report to the competitions, and they know exactly what's in that area, and they're just waiting for the competitions to come running into the game. So don’t when you don’t have arguments as far as I’m concerned, don’t get into some stories because then we’ll open a political story that won’t be very pleasant to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42250	Thank you very much. You want to answer? Yes, yes, I want to answer... You didn't say that, so here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42251	Thank you very much, Vice President. Just give me one sentence. Documentation under all laws and past and existing is owned by the Republic of Croatia. ... I think as you know, the paperwork was only launched last year to be taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I have the same question why in the previous Government the documentation was not launched to transfer to the property of the Republic of Croatia, i.e.... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42252	Thank you very much. We wouldn't dialogue this way. The next is a replica of that respected representative, Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a piece of my replica Mr. Shucker took. In fact, I was going to say, Mr. Deputy, what's the crime to call the competition? You don't think that... doing anything and that contest didn't fall off the tree that day, so he called. Now, because the elections were supposed to be held in that year, the government would do nothing to prevent a competition from being opened at the 11th month. You are not the only ones who inherited the tender. You have inherited the invitation to tender for the airport, and you have not completed it yet, do you know that? You inherited the Brijuni contest, what about it? You inherited a tender for a series of concessions on the maritime good, you inherited them because they do not stop life by election, the government must continue with the projects. If it's something illegal and that's it, it's another thing, but calling a contest, my God, what are you talking about? Not to say you'll leave behind in the election year a series of contests. You continued the competition and the privatisation of the shipbuilding, so what, you could have annulled it if you didn't think something was right. It's no argument to you, though it's a counterargument of what you wanted to say in this debate. And as far as I'm concerned, only a part of your associate on the Environmental Protection Committee responded. I didn't ask what the Ministry of Economy did but what the government did. I thank you for your response and I would like it to be so, but I am not aware that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has launched with the neighbouring country, with the Government of Montenegro any procedure for defining the final solution of the border between Croatia and Montenegro in the south, or at sea. I don't have that information, and I'm pretty interested in him, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42254	Thank you very much. And it is the last replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42255	Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Well, I think it's, uh, we've heard a lot of things here in the House of Government and that this isn't your spilling of bile, that it's just your temper, that's how I interpret it, benevolently, benevolently. I'd like to say the same thing about the competition. The competition for such important things is not announced in the month when elections are and it is a rule of fair play, courtesy etc. As much as we try to defend our HDZ colleagues, I don't think that's what serious governments do. The other thing, you did not show yourself what was very important to us, to those things we warned about, which is an article 40 in which you prescribed a new financial business in the Republic of Croatia that is contrary to the laws of the Republic of Croatia and that is very important. You didn't make it obvious, you gave us a little letter that we didn't understand things. We may not understand some things, you may be far more professional than we are in some things, but we have detected many problems of this law and almost all the clubs have agreed on these problems and all the representatives who have commented and other than the position that never commented on anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42256	Thank you very much. So here's what we're done with, and we're done with this point. We'll continue work tomorrow Friday, 10:00 a.m. will begin the session and there will be an immediate vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-13-0.u42257	Sitting is the proposal for a law on hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, first reading, PZE No. 366, the debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law on hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 20 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion. Proposal for a decision to confirm the term of office of members of the National Council for Education and Education. The decision shall be proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture on the basis of Articles 89 and 34. Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. Does the motioner want to further explain the proposal by Valter Boljunčić, a respected representative? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously, 100 votes in favour, a decision has been taken to confirm the duration of the mandate of the members of the National Council for Education and Education, as proposed by the Proposer.
