ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62642	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, you are presented with a draft final proposal for the Pension Insurance Act. It's very short to stress the trends this law is making. So, the Institute of Early Age Pensions for Long-term Insurance is being introduced, so those who are 41 years old and 60 years old will be able to retire from 01.01.2014, but without a reduction. Also, as far as penalization is concerned, it's easier to get closer to the target internship, the target age to get into the internship, so somewhere closer to 40 years of work experience, then the penalization is lighter, but if it goes into retirement early, then the penalization is bigger. We also ensure that those of our citizens who lose their jobs due to company bankruptcy, if within two years we do not get them a job, and have conditions for early retirement early and will go to that early retirement pension without a pension. On several occasions, we explained the reasons why Croatia must extend the retirement period from 65 to 67 years. The reasons are already known, the sustainability of the pension system, the extension of life in Croatia and, on the other hand, what is inevitable to us, which is that given the ageing of the Republic of Croatia, the ageing of the population of the Republic of Croatia, we will need as much as possible the activities of older age groups in the labour market. When we talk about disability pensions, we have already begun the process of their evaluation, so we have the possibility that disability pensions now with these amendments of the law and with the new law, we control, that those who do not need to enter the system do not enter the system and that we have the opportunity to determine that the pension is due with corruption or with papers that do not correspond to the truth that we can act in a way that re-enters those persons and determine whether they have real disability or not. We redefine the basic formula for determining pensions, so according to the current formula for first and second pensioners then without these changes in the definition of basic pensions, these pensions would not be greater than 20 to 30% of the average salary. Therefore, with these changes with changes in the second pension column and including the 27% supplement factor for the second pillar users, we place insurance companies that are going to retire in 2025 and from the first and second pension pillars so that their pension is 60% of the salary. Clearly for those who go into full-age retirement so with 65 years of life and 40 years of employment, or 67 years of retirement age. We separate the system into two systems, what we have promised to separate the pension system due under the Pension Insurance Act, so pensions that are paid out of pension contributions that are due by payment of contributions, and on the other hand pensions that remain under special rules, so pensions that differ from pensions under the Pension Insurance Act as they go away under more favourable conditions than defined by the Pension Insurance Act. For these pensions, funds are paid out of the state budget, so we also predicted that the coordination of pensions should be divided in two ways. The pension insurance laws are coordinated according to a more favourable formula, so 70-30, 70% better parameter 30% less parameter, so that, given the cost planning and the payment method, we introduce a modified way in such a way that 50-50 will be harmonised over the year, and at the end of the year, the final calculation of the compliance is done and then the difference is paid in the following year, and thus we also ensure the sustainability of the payment, sustainability of the budget, and on the other hand, the pensioners will still be in a more favourable position. The special-law peace would only be harmonised if the real growth of the gross domestic product in three consecutive quarters was greater than 2%, and on the other hand, the deficit of the state budget was less than 3%, clearly because these pensions are financed from the budget and must follow the fate of the budget. Of the things that we changed from the first reading other than nomotechnical improvements in text the most important differences compared to first reading are that early retirement for long-term insurance but without reduction. So she used to be in that section that defines retirement, but she's an early retirement without a reduction and we put her in that article that defines early retirement. Since the concept of full retirement caused some confusion, doubt and legal inconsistency, we deleted the provisions on full retirement. For the sake of justice, we also changed that paragraph that talked about increasing the starting factor after the age of retirement and 35 years, so those who have an internship longer than 41 years have an increase of 0.34% per month longer than that internship. We thought we should have a single percentage and it stays at 0.15. As regards the payment of pensions through mail in agreement with the Croatian Post Office, we agreed that all those who have received payment by mail so far, the postman brought them a pension at their home threshold, which remains and the costs of these payments will continue to be borne by HZMO. All those who retire after 1.1.2014, knowing that salaries are also received through current accounts, they will receive pensions through current accounts. I would like to point out once again that all those who have so far received a post-retirement pension on the domestic threshold will continue beyond 1.1.2014. And we also accepted the proposal to discuss the HZMO business report as has been discussed in the Croatian Parliament. These are the changes we have incorporated into this system into the law, it is fully in line with EU directives in the part that speaks about the pension system itself. I propose to the Parliament to accept the Final Proposal for a Retirement Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62643	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have a replica of the respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62644	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you said maybe if there was that inaccuracies institute it would be so obvious, but in this way I will, you said that the payment of pensions by mail would stay, and I don't understand that part because here in my county was lifted about six post offices with a tendency to further abolish. And in many other environments post offices are lifted, so somehow I don't know how it's going to be operational. And you know for yourself that a short time ago there was a problem with the OIB about the same post office because you know it's an old age population that lives with mail, where mail is simply the only way to communicate. Well, I just don't understand that way and the organization model, so you might want to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62645	You will receive a reply to the replica of the respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62646	So the text of the law makes it very clear that those who have so far been given a pension on their hands, whose mailman was carrying on his hands, on the house threshold, it remains, so nothing changes, the mail comes to every place in the Republic of Croatia, bringing pensions as it has so far. Regardless of the termination of the post office, therefore, the mailmen will continue to carry pensions to all those they have worn so far. It doesn't change anything. What we have managed with the Croatian Post office to reach one agreement on the financing of costs and payment. And it's going to the burden of the state. So there's not a single pensioner will bear any material costs by carrying a pension on his hands, who have so far had the right to do so. Since 1.1, therefore, all those who are new pensioners, knowing that we are all receiving a pension, that we are all receiving salaries through current accounts, so the new pensioners will all receive through the bank. The older pensioners who have received the mail so far remain the same as before. No changes are made and pensioners have no financial obligations due to this service.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62647	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we will go after the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the club's list of independents, Grubisic, Cain. The first is Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62648	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. Yes, when I first read this bill, I said that Croatia has had 10 pension reforms in the last 10 years. So what's been done? An age limit has been raised for an age-old early retirement of 5 years, the number of unemployed jobs, the benefited internship has changed, the concept of disability has changed, we have a new formula for calculating pensions regardless of gender. The calculation takes all the salaries, not the ones from the last 10 years. The right to a maximum pension, regardless of the income of the users, is introduced, and the highest pension is also limited. A pension supplement has been introduced from 4% to 27%, a fine of 0.9% to 0.34% per month of early retirement, a bonus was introduced for later retirement per month of 0.15% means per month. By 2030, women would retire as men,... Retirement for politicians and all of us who entered the second pillar during Vidovic are now allowed to return to the first pillar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All defenders in the term of office of Mrs Jadranka Kosor have or are in a system of privileged pensions. And what is also important to mention is that it is simply done or that this year ends with the return or compensation of those pensioners who were shortened in those early years of loneliness. Since 2007, 10.5 billion kuna has been returned here, and I guess by the end of the year it's left to return if I'm not mistaken for 120 million kuna. So that's how he adapted, changed our pension system. This law goes one step further. It says in Article 35 that the right to early retirement due to long-term insurance has an insurance policy when it is 60 years old and 41 years old. Article 34 states that the right to early retirement is an insurance company from 35 years of retirement. So it's said to be in '31. Year 60 years 3 months, '32. A year 60 years 6 months until '37. 61 years and 9 months. Article 33 is replaced by the following: at the age of 65, three months, in '32. at 65 years of age, 6 months until 2037, at 66 years of age and 9 months of life. And since January 1st, 2038, when he turns 67 years old and he's 15 years retired. What is also interestingly changed in this bill? In this public debate, a statement was made, among other things, regarding the non-support of the proposal to bring former JNA members in line with pensions. Namely, it is proposed that members of the former JNA, the Croatian citizens, for the period of insurance training, be completed by 8 October of '91. the year under the Pension, Disability Insurance Act, the military insurance company shall take salaries, personal income, special income incurred in that army of 63.22% unless, on the basis of this, the traineeship has obtained the right to retire outside Croatian pension insurance or if the total pension allowance has been completed in the Republic of Croatia for less than 12 months. This will allow 573 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have made themselves available to the Republic of Croatia but have not entered the Croatian Army and have continued to work and have ultimately made an extremely low pension on average of 700 kuna monthly corrects certain injustices. And that this decision to resolve the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia men and women have an equal age for obtaining the right to retire, etc. But what's the problem now? We provide for pensions means 35 point something billion kuna, it is somewhere around 11% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. Someone will say it's less than it is in other European countries, but on the other hand, it's a problem that every fifth kuna from a gross-social product goes defacto for social transfers, or that 66 billion kuna or every other budget kuna goes for so-called. Social transfers. The problem is that the economic base is simply collapsing, which is in Croatia, and yesterday I said it to millions and 400 thousand people, or 32.4% of the poor, where for a single-member household a year it takes 24 122 kuna or 2010 kuna a month so that, if it does not, it does not enter that threshold of the poor, and the four-member household needs 50,656 kuna or 4221 kuna per month. And all of this is clear, there we can agree, war, conversion, loss of pre-war jobs, market then and so on, but the fact is that in 1990 there was one worker of four pensioners, and 1990. Three workers versus one pensioner or '90s. We've had a situation of a million 968 thousand 737 workers, 655 thousand 788 pensioners, and today we all know about the situation, 1:1,18. And what do you expect? The defenders were in the square yesterday, the problem is if the disabled are touched. I always tell a disabled man always one kuna more. Last night, Minister Linic also returned from Brussels, the message is that for about 3 billion kunas, perhaps by some rebalancing in the 4th or 5th month, the deficit of the Republic of Croatia should be cut from 6% to 4.7% and I do not simply want to speculate at this point. What we know is that the state would also finance these 18 billion kuna deficits at the moment and 22 billion kunas of the commitments made are mostly on the market for 44 billion kuna, each being the third budget kuna. What makes me happy is that he doesn't touch the coal miners of Tuvaluac. If something worked out in those 20 years here in parliament, and I know what the opposition was, it's that I managed to pass the law on them, and it's certainly the category that just earned every lip or every one of its kunas. But then what's the problem? In 2000, there were a million 380 thousand 510 insurance companies in Croatia, 2012. 52 thousand more, however, the number of pensioners in 2000 was one million 18 thousand 622, and in 2012, a million 217 thousand 504 or a number of pensioners increased by 199 188. But the crisis here has been lost since 2008 to 130,000 jobs in the real sector, and 30,000 people get a job clearly in the upgrade. The problem is that Croatian is this economic, developmental, not ideological, not religious, once word simply political. The problem is great and it is certain that this problem will not be resolved regardless of all these interventions for perhaps another decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62649	Thank you very much. The other part won't be, thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. Dear Dragutin Lesar and the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62650	Dear colleagues and colleagues. What's the big deal about a pension insurance bill like this? The crisis, recession, depression and Croatia must be restructured in all areas. This is the mantra we hear every day from every minister, every occasion and every law that has recently come to the Croatian Parliament is justified, excuse me with the same words. Everything is necessary and everything can be fucked, abolished, reduced, abolished, acquired rights except of course profit, especially in the financial sector, of course high bonuses, management contracts even in public enterprises. These are topics forbidden for bill proposals, forbidden for discussion not only in the Croatian Parliament but also in the Croatian public. And a new golden calf has been added to which many begin to worship, and it is about to say that Croatia must become competitive. And this bill does not use the word, in its explanation, but it is on the trail of worshiping this new golden calf because it turns out that students, workers, pensioners and unemployed are guilty of incompetence of the Croatian economy, because they are the only ones who are being reduced or abolished by rights, only they are subject to restrictions, only they are said that Croatia will never become competitive without it. So the workers, the pensioners, the unemployed and the students are guilty of the incompetence of our employers and the state. Uncompetitive are hard because of 16.4 kuna gross minimumer which is valid in Croatia at the moment or if you want 43 kuna gross average salary per hour. The fact that in other EU countries, as well as in our environment, these salaries are 10, 15, and 40% higher, no one cites as an illustration that reasons for incompetence can be elsewhere. And this great sin of Croatian structures since 2008 because of the complete non-investment and non-renewal of the production part of the economy, the World Bank has also cited the reasons why Croatia is wrong, so the biggest regrets are given to weak measures to protect investors, not to issue construction permits within an appropriate time, the availability of energy, the registration of property rights and the availability of capital, i.e. loans. This law is the first of the three laws in the anti-worker's package of legislation and Minister Mrsic is either consciously or by mistake, I don't care why, he announced that Croatia is returning in 1886 because he says that time 8+8+8 has past and officially announced the funeral, the funeral of the social state in Croatia. They unpacked a package of anti-work laws so we're discussing pension law today. The labour law has been removed from the agenda of the government session, waiting for January and probably low temperatures, and the third on occasional jobs will reportedly be rewritten until a little passion over the Labour Act calms down. They realized that what was too much with bread was not good. The entry of the state of play on the bill as one of the reasons for the new regulation states that the annual pension obligation is 35.1 billion kuna, and that 19.3 billion dollars are collected from the contributions and that the poverty of the state in the budget must be paid annually by 16 billion kuna in order for the state to be able to serve pension commitments. But they didn't deal with the analysis of who or what's wrong with these 16 billion missing. They came from the assumption that they were retired because they were too young and that perhaps within the retirement population they might now be able to establish youth youth youth organisations. However, we need to remember a few years back. Croatia contributed 20% of pension insurance, and then someone came up with a second pillar of pension insurance that went to a quarter of that contribution, so 5%, with high expectations, firstly that both acquired capital and capitalised savings would be invested in the Croatian economy by managers with the second pillar of the Mirovinski Fund, that the money would help restore the economy, the investment swing and would be a direct economic benefit, and that the second part of the pension from the second pillar would make up for a smaller part of the pension from generation solidarity. Which is what we're seeing today. And we see that capital investments from the second pension stake were not in the economy, and that the amount of these pensions is more like caritative assistance in the soup kitchen than pensions. But thus the pension system ran out of around 4 billion, the pension system of generation solidarity ran out of 4 billion on an annual basis. They also forgot that the 15 categories of beneficiaries of pensions acquired under special regulations around 8 billion and 100 kuna in this calendar year is the item, noting that the number of users from year to year is decreasing, but the weight of funds is increasing and the number of high-income users is increasing, and it will continue to grow in three to four years, and it will be at around 15 billion annually. And the third reason for two to three billion kunas was the yearly blackout of the pension contribution, was not paid and no one was sorry about it. And for the past 15 years, this non-payment of contributions over the past ten years, the second pillar has mutilated generation solidarity 14 to 17 billion kunas on an annual scale. But we are not correcting these causes and mistakes, but we are turning to those who are now retired or who should be. The minister writes that penalisation, or in accordance with Croatian, did not yield the desired results, so it should be arranged in a different way. And why do people flee to early retirement? Do you think they're happy to have a reduced pension? Indeed, why in Croatia do people go to early retirement mass? Because everyone at work wants to get rid of them. Because they're being mobbing towards them because everyone wants to get rid of them as soon as they get their first pension condition, because old workers don't give employers the expected contribution by their standards. And it's not just the choice of those people, they're most often forced to leave early retirement. There's too many disability pensions. Who's creating them? Who makes disabled people in Croatia? But I'm amazed at the data, so we have 239 grand. On the day of 31.12.'98. There were 103,000 of them. What have we done that in the last 15 years we've produced 13,000 disabled pensions, disabled people? Look at this law and try to find a solution that will be made to reduce it. 136 grand in 15 years. '98. We've had 90,000 family pensions, now we've got 234 grand. 144 grand in 15 years, why? Because of unemployment and obtaining the right to a family pension because sometimes more than two or three in the family worked and today works one or none. There's no solution to that problem either. We don't do cause analysis. The system of generation solidarity needs to be saved and there are new solutions. Since 2030, the age of life has increased for the right of retirement for every year for three months so that the 2038 conditions for full pension would be 67 years of life, 15 years of internship, and an early pension of 62 years of life, 35 years of retirement. There is one newspaper, though, due to long-term insurance, you will be entitled to a full pension or a regular pension if you have 41 years of retirement and 60 years of life. I don't know why years of life after 40 years of insurance really don't understand, nor do I accept that life as a category of long-term insurance as an additional condition for the acquisition of that right. But that's not all. Since pensioning or early retirement has not produced the desired effects, the new law predicts that the starting factor for each month of early retirement will be reduced by 0.10% to 40 years, 0.15% to 39 years, 0.25% to 38, or 20.4% lower pension if you go 5 years earlier in retirement. 360 thousand unemployed, 180 thousand young people, and as a solution to job creation, the law stipulates that pensioners, part of them, can also work after retirement, receive a pension and work part-time. It will likely make it easier for young people to get a job if those who have obtained a pension can continue to work legally. And those who think 2030 is only one thing away. In the current pension insurance system, up to 40 years of life is 699 thousand. 700,000 of those working at this time will be either fully or partially covered by this pension reform and increasing the conditions for retirement as far as 67 years of life are concerned. Well, these 700 thousand people if they didn't know that by now let them calculate on the calendar when they get the age limit on whether they're going to work 1, 2, 3 and 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 months longer than the current conditions. It will work on a specific, it is normal, rented through the agency up to 3 years on occasional business, and then says the bill and terms of retirement will be obtained when you collect 35 years of retirement training on a temporary and occasional hourly basis, two daily rentals through the agency. If you're lucky and have a contract, of course, on a certain level. The number of retired gentlemen in the government can't be reduced. But you can increase the number of insurance companies by opening up new jobs. And that's the only way to stabilize the pension system. The Croatian Labour Club will submit 5.6 amendments, which are the shortest against the thought of increasing the life span and obligations of 41 years of pension insurance as a condition for retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62651	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62652	Dear colleague Lesar, one correction, pension rights can be reduced by various laws, cut as you said but bang or squatted can be bearded, hedges, and I wouldn't use that term in retirement because it's inappropriate in any case. Secondly, I would like to say that the correct information is that, on behalf of the salary contribution, there are 24 billion kunas and that there are essentially 12 billion missing for pension payments in Croatia. The second thing is that we put 5 billion kunas in individual insurance accounts. This is the burden of pension reform, and this burden causes an estimated 10 billion-dollar hole in the budget each year because these 5 billion do not create a new value, does not create new jobs, does not help the economy and should be compensated naturally by borrowing to pay off pensions. I'm asking you if it's the pensioners or the poorly designed pension reform, so I want to say it. And I think a colleague will talk a little bit more about leaving, about early retirement, not mobbing like you said, it's a policy to exclude older people from the world of work, which is very inappropriate, which somehow goes in the direction of creating ageism in Croatia or ageism as it's written, and that's kind of impatience towards older people instead of using the skills and experiences of older people in the world of work that are not negligible, or very valuable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62653	Thank you very much, reply to the line, dear representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62654	I agree with you that the word "fuck" is not appropriate, but not alone when it comes to pensioners, and I believe that you do not fuck your beard, but you do. But the word "creation" is spoken by our members of the government, so I use the same terminology as they do, and now if it's wrong, I agree, you're part of the ruling coalition, so warn her not to use that word anymore. And I agree with you that the data on the amount of contribution collected for pension insurance is not fully shown but separated. 19.3 billion is probably about generational solidarity, 5 billion contributions to the second pillar, I figured it was about 4.5. You have more accurate data 5 and more for 5 to pay your pensions. At an annual level of 10 billion from the moment of the hole began to create a hole at the time of the introduction of the second pillar of pension insurance but without the full reform of the pension system and that is true. And that's exactly the fact that it led to those 16 billion that the state had to intervene for pension payments and it didn't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62655	Honorable representative Zeljko Schamper replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62656	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you mentioned these 16 billion, so I finally wanted to factor out that I know where that 16 billion goes. You have already mentioned some amounts, it is known that around 7 billion go on pensions under special regulations, about 5 billion go on as compensation for the state budget for the second pillar, and it is important to stress that those remaining nearly 5 billion go on various allowances such as 100 kuna and 6% and the addition to the law on the add-on of 4-27%, which is practically the compensation of the state for all the injustices that have been done in the past. You also talked about working part-time. I and I generally believe that the pensioners will take jobs for the younger generation, but that is not entirely true because the pensioners will work if there is work, if there is a job, young people will be hired. And thirdly you talked about a large number of pensioners, and I can't agree with that and it's not a problem in the pension system, the problem is in our economic system, there's a pensioner coming to Croatia on 3.5 of our country's inhabitants, and that's the coefficient in one Denmark, so in advanced EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62657	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62658	It is good for you to assist in clarifying why these 16 billion are needed and indeed in those 16 billion and that share, which, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, which is based on the specific rules of the state, does not pay back the debt but compensates, compensates for the illegal non-compliance or theft of pensions that was made in Croatia in the 1990s. But you see what you've just said and what we're discussing in the public, it's not saying it, but it's giving real data to show up and get new arguments why we have to press even more on the terms of retirement, the amount of pensions, and don't let God accept the model of annual harmonisation of pensions by model that would be in favour of pensioners and when it comes to special regulations or pensions under special regulations, the only reform that nobody here will ever do, I'm aware of that, give the results of all those who got the conditions for retirement under special rules based on their insurance periods is calculated, no matter what pensions they were and the state of the state budget is giving specific rules which they want to do, but give some special category of rights and then push it into generation solidarity, so after a year we find that we need pension reform because they're threatened by excessive giving and hypocritically to those who've generated generation solidarity for decades.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62659	Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62660	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you said that the abolition of 8, 8, 8 was practically Mr. Mrsic's buried the social state. I don't quite agree with your findings because the process of work and technology of work and modern computer information technology is really looking for both a more modern and different approach to work is no longer work 100 years ago, and we should have been refreshed. I think working furniture is another way of burying workers' rights and social rights in this country, and this is a problem, but it's not a fundamental problem. But what I want to add to you, why don't you, when you have all these comments on the ruling set, why don't you direct your strength in the defense of these rights, but you give practical support to this set at all times, and so that your role seems to me to be some role in the Comedy Theatre where you play the role of the Salon Revolutionist, and hoping that as many audiences as possible will believe in your revolutionaryism, and in the end you know it's all an act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62661	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62662	My colleague Marasovic, you understand little about what is said in the assembly, so you didn't understand me when I was saying eight, eight, eight. Eight hours of work is regular working hours, everything else is called overtime and the battle of eight, eight, eight in Croatia is fought because of the possibility of ordering overtime up to 56 hours a week. But I'm not the one teaching you about it. And our support to the ruling coalition is also evident in discussions, voting and proposing. You're too small in the Parliament because you only come in the morning to be filmed through a couple of replicas and played on information shows. In order to be able to monitor our entire work and, unlike you, we try to be concrete, constructive, propose solutions that are refused, but we will never blackmail anyone, we will never use the methods of blackmailing secret trading and selling that are so valuable to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62663	Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62664	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you were talking about retirement leaves and causes because of the status that workers have in businesses, in fact they are encouraged to retire. I must stress that there is a difference between entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. The difference is because it's a real entrepreneur who invested his capital or a pseudo-entrepreneur who risked other people's capital and who got it as a gift from companies. As the capital is acquired, they also treat their workers. But in most cases, since it was a gift because in very few cases it risks own capital, in most cases entrepreneurs want with as few people, with as much effort as possible, with less pay or no pay if possible, everything will be done without pay, that the worker will do as much and create as possible. Under such conditions of course there is a cover that the Croatian worker is lazy, which is not true and that the state must not be an entrepreneur because it does not know how to manage, which is not true and it raises efficiency, it raises efficiency, only on the extortion of the Croatian worker who loves to work, but who loves to be paid for his work. However, company restructurings are exclusively achieved by firing workers. All restructuring was carried out, and the worker in Croatia is not protected. He's completely clean. No one's protecting him. Not that overtime has been paid, but it must not be recorded. It's not recorded. Mustn't drag a tab to avoid And no one's even going to control it. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much, Your Honor.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62665	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62666	Dear Marić, thank you for warning me that it is not good to generalise, indeed, I forgot to put the fence that not all employers are the same, as in this hall we are not all the same, not all the people in the world are the same and that there are in Croatia, indeed, employers who care about workers as members of their family, that they are properly treated, that they are not late for a day with wages and that they are usually promoted, they are stable on the market and they are more than they are those who have turned towards exports. But you are also right in this second act that the problem in Croatia is with those employers who have received the company's gift and that they have been most brutal towards the workers. 350 000 about workers have experienced their entrepreneurial abilities. And that's why it would be very interesting for them to, say, six months before the government comes to Parliament, give us an analysis of employers, companies who back in the four years have received different support and incentives from the state to restructure, to create new jobs, to modernise. So let's see how these employers who received the company for free 25 years ago, now another yearly wolf from the state hundreds of millions of kunas of different aids, how they ended up with the process of preserving jobs and the level of labour rights right in their possession. That would be very interesting if you followed the genealogy of these companies, the amount of state-owned money pumping and the final result, the number of employees with data on wages and other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62667	The Honorable representative of Vishny Fortuna, her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62668	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, I would refer to the one when you said, there are a lot of pensioners and a lot had to go into early retirement. Yeah, it's true. Retired people today have a lot of, but also early retirements. But why? I would have said that a large number of our citizens had to flee very quickly to retirement precisely because, therefore, not during this furniture but from before because the companies were being given as they were, then they declared bankruptcy and unfortunately they had to flee to retirement and it was their only source of income at that time whatever she was then, and she was very small. Early retirements also happen today that people are running away early, and I would agree with that precisely because no one wants to anymore, that is, politics that we don't need older ones, but it already applies to those 40 years, but it's considered older, and that experience they have and they're worth a lot to them, nobody sees it. Today we only go to some young people, etc., etc. Well done for young people, but intergenerational solidarity, both old and young. And one more, it's true, four hours of retirement time. I personally agree with that four hour working hours and that proposal, and why? So, unfortunately, what from today’s pensions is a very small number of people who can live and they have to look for a job, and four hours of work is about those who will find a job. I'm afraid those will be very few.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62669	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62670	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that you agree with my debate when I warned that it is not often the choice of man to go into early retirement but was created such a situation, and in such a psychological situation it was brought to the point that he simply had to run away from going crazy. The troubles, the pressures, the mobbing, the giggling, the insults, the plantings are so strong that people have to give in and they have to leave. And those more persistent even who would remain simply are driven away. And employers do this massively by way of non-usable labour. But it's not a problem for employers to behave like that, it's a problem for no one to react. We accept that as a fact. When that valve is squeezed to the end, then people will run for sick leave, and that is why we are growing sick in Croatia. People have to seek salvation. They're people of flesh and blood. And as for the work of pensioners after retirement, the economic criterion for people to earn an office, but then that law on occasional businesses should be for them only, and regular jobs should be for workers. That's the difference we have to make then. This offered model doesn't make that difference. Yeah, well, let's solve that problem then with the occasional business law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62671	Thank you very much. Two notices, respected chairman of the Committee on Legislatives Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, scheduled today for the meeting of the committee at 13:30 this year at the Hall of Eugen Kvaternika 233 with agenda already received by the board members. The second notice and application, we plan to do this already on the 3rd point we are working on today, to discuss the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th, is the plan, but this does not depend on the chairman of the Croatian Parliament, but on the representative in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. The Club of Representatives of the SDP of Croatia is next in the Croatian Parliament and is a respected representative of Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62672	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the adoption of a final proposal for the Pension Insurance Act. Namely, as already said but I will point out once again, taking into account the status data of the first pension column for August 2013, which is 1.22 million pensioners versus 1.5 million insurance companies, it is proportionate that the pension system is indeed in difficulty and we have already concluded that. Pensions and pension income expenditure amounted to €35.197 billion in 2012 and it is precisely that 54% of the expenditure comes from pensions and the other 46% of pension expenditure is financed from the state budget. Since the law is in second reading, I'm not going to repeat everything, but what's really important. I must say and repeat again, therefore, that the age limit for gaining the right to retirement is gradually increasing for an early age. Therefore, according to this now proposed law in the period from 2014 to 2030, the same age conditions for obtaining an age pension and early retirement pension would be maintained for women prescribed by the applicable Pension Insurance Act. From 1 January 2013 onwards, the age for obtaining the right to retirement would be increased by three months each year until 2037. What is also important under this law, and there is a change in view of the first reading, which is that the institute of early retirement pensions for long-term insurance is introduced, which is 41 years of insurance and 60 years of life but without any reduction in pension. It will stimulate retirement at an older age with a longer retirement period. Therefore, it is proposed to determine the percentage of the increase in the starting factor for retirement, while the increase in the starting factor after the age for retirement and 35 years stands at all of 0.15%. This law will also allow for the use of old age pensions with work to half the working hours. This law will also allow for a more appropriate way of re-determining an early retirement pension to a user other than an age pension to be employed. Also, this law redefines the system of assessment of work ability will encourage professional rehabilitation of persons with remaining work capacity, so the Institute of Professional Rehabilitation will improve to return to the world of work. The right to professional rehabilitation will have an insurance on the basis of reduced working capacity with the remaining work capacity before the 53rd year of life. It will also enable the exercise of the right to a disability pension due to partial loss of working ability and temporary disability pension, as well as the review in the case of established overall inability to work and during the application of the rights based on disability, physical impairment or total loss of working capacity for family members. A new institute is introduced that is a minimum pension, and it is defined more favourably than the lowest pension or is determined for each year of the pension rate of 100% of the current pension value, and so far it has been 98%. In view of the first reading, the current way of payment through banks in the Republic of Croatia or abroad and through the Croatian Post Office to users in the Republic of Croatia for pensioners and other pension insurance receipts were made by 31 December 2013. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. Also, as we have already responded to the first reading of the Institute will submit an annual business report by 30 June for the previous year to the Croatian Assembly. The proposed law contains a number of newspapers that will affect the incomes and expenditures of pension insurance of generation solidarity. But the same proposed law seeks to achieve fiscal consolidation. On the other hand, efforts will be made and pensioners will be provided with more adequate protection against the risk of poverty and more appropriate means and conditions for the exercise of rights, as well as the determination and harmonisation of pensions. Therefore, the above-mentioned SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62673	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It's the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62674	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal of the Pension Insurance Act in the second reading to be repeated by what we in Croatia pensioners think is good in some way to say that it happened well between the two readings. And that's that our objections about age-retirement categories are respected, so we're not creating a new category. That early retirement was introduced without a pension with 41 years of internship and 60 years of life. So she's classified in the category in which she belongs. We have one formula that is obvious in these conditions in which, the formula of coordination that obviously will not benefit much under these conditions, given that all of the matching indices in the minus are currently known for the past six months. But perhaps in some subsequent period, this formula will produce some such better results than the current formula for harmonising pensions. We also welcome the possibility that pensioners work part-time so that they have, that we have a position once a pensioner is always a pensioner and that they can uninterruptedly conclude a contract of work. Of course, paying taxes and contributions and eventually creating a basis for increasing pensions. Of course, all of this is conditional if their skills have work to do on the labour market. So it is not unconditional and no one will force anyone to hire a pensioner but it is possible that if there is a need for their skills and skills in the labour market to do so. Of course, in Croatia, we pensioners have had a lot of things for us, and often our soul hurts when, besides these good things that I said, we get some other things that, in a package of laws that we disagree with. I'll tell you a story about the current institute of minimum pensions. In 1998, a minimum pension category with a factor of 0825 was introduced to reduce the minimum pension provisions in 2002. Namely, then, Minister Vidovic and then the legislation predicted that each year an internship above the 30th in the lowest pension is worth twice as much. In its 2007 initiatives, the Croatian Party of Retirement managed to vote each year for the lowest pension to be the same. And here's this bill of law offers a new category. So far, we've advocated unification by the status of the pensioners. So, if the users are the lowest pensions to be in equal terms. And here we have a new category of so-called. a minimum pension that would be less than 3% higher. But not backwards. We would accept it if it were proposed here that it was for all 180 thousand pensioners who are now in the lowest pension if it were indeed a social protection category. But no, this is about creating a new category of profuturo, so after the entry into force of this law would no longer be the lowest, it would be a minimum that would be about 3% higher. And we have a new inequality. So it is exactly the opposite of those aspirations that the Croatian Party of Retired in the last 10 years has promoted in this House. So according to this story, our amendment will go that, since it's not going back, it remains the story it's been so far that we have the lowest pension. It should be noted that in this minimum pension of 180 thousand pensioners, there is an average payment of 390 kuna per pension more than is covered by contributions. More than it's covered by contributions. So here is a very represented level of solidarity. We respect the level of solidarity and want to improve it but for everything the same, and we do not want to forget the principle of reciprocity. Because the principle of mutuality in the pension system should mean that we have as much pension as possible with the contributions paid over the years of internships. And we can't accept here an increase in separation and on the other hand we have one new, whole new chapter that we haven't touched yet, which is family pensions. You know, I can't accept a permanent condition that a family pension can only be 70% of the deceased spouse if she's bigger or I have to give up a pension and stay in hers. For us in Croatia, the party of pensioners 60, 70 years together, the internship means something to us and 70 years of internship in the actuarial. And yet I note, we're not talking about a clean social system, we're not talking about a pension insurance system where the exit, so the payout has to depend on payments over the years, the payments of contributions because I'm not talking about the law, the individual law that's been created for years. It's not someone who gave it to me, it's been created for years, and that 30 years of a deceased spouse has to mean something in that story because he's singled out all these 30 years, and he's been using maybe three, four or five. So this is a story that is connected and I would rather leave if we couldn't solve it now, Mr. Minister, to solve it with another occasion, and I wouldn't forget about this situation. As for course, we will intervene on this final bill with some amendments. In addition to what I said we were looking for a minimum pension with the lowest pension, so to remain as old, we want to change the term monetary giving in Article 8. Money giving is a terrible irritation to the pensioners because it implies that someone is giving them something, and besides that it is not earned, we are not asking for anything new but only to comply with Article 4 of this Act because Article 4 is talking exclusively about monetary income, and then Article 8 is talking about giving. Therefore, I think that the legal term is also the same as in Article 4 and our amendments to Article 8 are to comply with Article 4 of this Act. Of course, in that same article, 8 states that the pensioner is an insurance provider. It ceases to be an insurance company, it is the same as the insurance company of a natural person and the pensioner of a natural person who has exercised the right or is exercising the right to pension insurance. So that's where you'll definitely get the amendment. Of course, we have an amendment to Articles 33 and 34, it probably won't work, but it's our duty to give the amendment, or we don't think there's any point in embezzling the norm with a delay in the application of 17 years. This is a question of extending the age of life to retire, indeed it is kind of a precedent in Croatia's legal practice that something really is delayed for a full 17 years and there are certainly 3 to 4 members of the Assembly who can make such a decision competently in order to improve the quality of life, i.e. the extension of life span. I don't expect you to accept it, but it is our duty to articulate the interests and interests of our members, but also the wider retirement population and in some way those pensioners who are just going to become those who are waving against these provisions. Therefore, we further have an amendment to Article 88, where the deadline for the calculation of the current value is extended. I think that two months as it has been until now are quite enough and we propose to return to the current position, that it is quite enough for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute or the Administrative Council to determine the alignment within 2 months of the expiry of the 6-month period, a period of 6 months for which compliance is considered. Of course, I understand that, in HSU, we understand the retirement process, and we kind of support this separation procedure with that it is not a one-day job, that exactly what is a pension under the general rules, and what is added, but we believe that here as it goes towards these pensions, special regulations can be made quite wrong. In particular, many mistakes and mistakes can be made about pensions that are relatively low. In fact, I have to say that out of pensions under special regulations, about 164,000 of them, 56 000 are lower than 3000 kuna and we will go with the amendment to exempt those pensions from the suspension of harmonisation under special regulations that are less than 3000 kuna. These are not really privileged pensions, they are not really pensions that can be saved. So here we feel the need for social reasons and for socializing with these people and for phone calls to propose such an amendment. I don't think he would be at any risk of any savings effects, and all of this until the moment that amendment would be just until the moment that these pensions really are separated into the part covered by contributions under the general rules and possibly to this added value. Of course, there could still be a lot of talk about this, there could be a lot of changes to this law. All opportunities for increasing the principle of justice in the system have never been exhausted here because if we are to return to those lowest pensions we have not yet resolved our agricultural pensions, we have not been in line since 1998 with the lowest pensions that took effect since 1998, i.e. on 1 January 1999. We haven't solved any of the pensioners from the second half of 1998 who often call us because they're pensioners who aren't anywhere. So they didn't get an old law of 100 kunas and 6%, and none of them included any new alignment, or an increase in pensions. So there could be a lot more to talk about where we have the possibility of quality regulation of this law and improvements in this law, especially with the principle of justice, but obviously we're going to have to leave it for a second time because times are really the way my predecessors said, they are, and I think we all have to consider it. Of course, I have to set myself up at the end of my presentation because these are not all amendments that will be submitted by the Croatian Party of Retirement Club. Something about some amendments will explain in an individual discussion my colleague, Schamper. But in the end, I must say that our mood to support this law without intent on blackmail will be exactly proportionate to the proposal's will to respect our remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62675	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable representative Goran Maric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62676	Thank you very much. You spoke of solidarity and principles of righteousness. And certainly when such a law is passed, fundamental principles must be justice and solidarity, but not discrimination. And by analysis, systematic analysis of the proposed law cannot take away the impression that there is always one level of discrimination. And there are actually protected groups, and when I ran all the groups, I came to the conclusion that it is best in this Croatia to be a member of the Yugoslav People's Army, a point. They enjoyed the privileges of years, in the well-favoured internship, in the assigned apartments, in the villas at sea, in the schooling that lasted them for more than 6 months. And now that the coefficients are determined, imagine them a coefficient of 0.65 and a Croatian representative of 0.45. You know who has the smallest coefficient? The invalids and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. That's the group that's been discriminated against by former JNA members. And you know who has even greater coefficients than them? Former members of the Executive Council and administrative retirement of federal public assemblies. So what I can conclude but only, we're not even recognised an internship that we've been forced into JNA. I regret every second of the life taken that forced me into JNA, and now they have a greater coefficient than I do. Is that justice? If he cares about anything, he only cares about the people. It's best to be a member of the JNA and anything related to Yugoslavia, touch everything but don't touch my Yugoslavia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62677	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62678	I am trying to understand your frustration, but it is unfounded because if you had listened to the first reading of this law here then you would have certainly noticed the intervention of the minister who said it was about persons who were made available to the Croatian state in 1991. This is said in the first reading and this is a small number, a small number of those persons. I believe Mr. Secretary will confirm what I said. I've listened carefully to first reading and secondly, and I can't really identify it with an aggressor army. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62679	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Vishny Fortuna, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62680	Your Honor, I would only replicate, or repeat, the current law, which is the lowest pension, and under the new law a minimum pension. The name changed, the users stayed the same. What the Croatian party of pensioners has been pushing for more than 15 years throughout its activities, which is the equality between the same categories of our pensioners. And that's where we're really bothered by these three percent because we don't think that three percent should exist here. Unfortunately, our pensioners very often have to receive more help from local administrations, money aid where those who can give it, and who can't, unfortunately, can't even give help to the pensioners, and it's sad that they have to receive help. And as far as family pensions are concerned, I agree with the fact that a mate from the deceased may have, a spouse may, of course, keep his pension and percentage of the deceased spouse in the Republic of Germany, in Germany it is 60% just to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62681	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62682	I want to share with you, but also with all my colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament and possibly another scenario. We could have been populist about the question of minimum pensions and say, okay, great, let's increase by three percent and two months to get here in front of this House of Commons with amendments and additions to the law, to make things right, to get those old ones up by three percent just because we have a new category and to get everyone into a new category of minimum pensions. But we realized that this is kind of about increasing false solidarity in the system, because it's not about having the lowest pension in terms of property censorship, so we're giving it to someone who really needs it and who doesn't have any other source of income. We have the lowest pension determined by years of internship and is independent of the employer's payments. I can have the worst employer who hasn't paid me anything he's been rewarded for because I'm gonna get the lowest pension. So we didn't want to go with this populist approach, but we made this category known the way things really are and how we think it's fair. And maybe everyone here in this assembly won't agree with us, but we think it's a fair approach like this to stay on the lowest, and tomorrow we'll talk about a different family pension solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62683	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62684	Thank you very much. You were talking about pensions under special regulations. For a long time in this House, when we are discussing these pensions, we have been asking the minister to give us information on how many people who have been given the solution to receive a pension under special regulations during their working life paid a pension contribution. Because it's just that there's this sort of thinking that these people haven't been paying anything, that they have great pensions, and eventually we're going to discuss reducing these pensions more than five thousand kunas later on. These people have done, many of them have done almost a lifetime of work, but whether because of disability, whether because of the death of someone who is the bearer of that pension in the Homeland War, someone has the right to retire but all these people have been paying their pensions. And perhaps by looking gradually at how much they paid in the first pension column, they may have paid more than those who receive a pension by some disability in their regular pension. And it's not good, it's not fair against these people. And secondly, because of the Croatian public, it would be good to finally publicise in this bill the number of NOB members, how many members of these, how many people from the Homeland War, so according to all the special rights of how many pensions there are and what are the average pensions for the simple reason that these people who are based on the law that voted this House of Commons stop being a coin for prostitution in political accounts in the Republic of Croatia, here I refer above all to Croatian defenders. Because it is simply not fair against them and against the families of the dead Croatian defenders that someone politically bids in one way or another and shows them that they are a great burden and that they are the problem of the minority that Croatia has entered the excessive deficit. And it should finally be published and removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62685	Honorable representative Silvano Hrelja, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62686	Dear colleague Shuker details on how many pensioners there are in which of the 16 categories are available on the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's website and the only thing not available is their categorization. How many of them are up to 1,000 kuna, up to 2,000, up to 3,000, up to 4000, up to 5,000. But you know exactly how much the average is per category and how many are inside. And to you for information, I told you one piece of information that about 56 thousand we round that number has that total of 16 categories of less than 3000 kuna. And I know the same information that more than 5500 kuna has 46 thousand of 164 thousand total pensions under special regulations. If you'd give me some time, I might have a few more parameters to calculate, but I think this is enough to start with. Of course I agree that separation is necessary, but it's impossible to make it overnight. Because overnight, it's all packed into a system of generational solidarity, and now it takes some time to dismember every single insurance company per section that's been paid by special regulations, or by general regulations, and there's a lot of things. There are also those who have many internships, and there are those who receive a pension and do not have a day of internship. So, of those two extremes, the truth is always somewhere in the middle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62687	There's nothing but different things. Dragutin Lesar is a respected representative and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62688	You told your colleague, Mr. Hrelj, and you warned that there are 53 thousand in these pensioners under special regulations who receive below 3,000 if I'm not mistaken. That's true, it's 32% of the recipients of these pensions that are below 3,000 but out of the million and 217 thousand pensioners from the regular pension system of 867 thousand or 71% receive a pension of up to 3000. And what your colleague Shuker asked you for, I have the information and the company of May 2005 and June this year. In all 15 categories of pensions under special regulations, the average pension in those individual categories is higher, so it is no smaller than the average pension of generation solidarity. These are the exact data from the Pension Insurance Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62689	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62690	This data you've presented on this large number below 3000 is statistically correct but not correct. They are not valid for one reason why all the proportionate pensions that come to the Republic of Croatia are not united into one single file and yes, I say of course they are not but they are the same retirement benefits and there are 120 thousand. If anything else for that 120,000, this data would have been changed. However, I share both your concerns and the concerns of our fellow pensioners for large participation in the total number of pensions, pensions below 3000 kuna. But, you know, I have to tell you, it's the same difference in parts of Croatia. You know what city, when we talk about the pension system, you know which city is the strongest in the average pension? The city of Rijeka. Do you know which municipality is strongest on average? Kostrena municipality. And it is the only place in Croatia where the average pension is over 3000 kuna. So there are all kinds of pensions. So there's an awful lot of inequality in this system, and the most beautiful thing is to interpret statistics based on the bikini principle that our colleague Cain likes to do, which is to discover what's attractive and hide what's important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62691	Thank you too, colleague. It's next, Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62692	Thank you, Mr. President. You spoke in your discussion about family retirement, and you stressed that the current model is not complete because the spouse you said after the death of the partner gets his or 70% pension depends on who is more favourable to him and that it ignores the fact that both partners have actually singled out through pension contributions for pensions and in fact the pension benefits only one user or only one pension. So I think you've opened a really big question, one extremely important question. However, I must remind myself that 15% of the pension contribution is paid into a pension fund based on generation solidarity and only 5% is paid on individual accounts, on personal accounts, and as we know these funds and are the subject of succession. So, most of the contributions, three quarters, 15% is paid for generation solidarity, and that's not a payment on your own account for your own pension. The generation that is currently doing it is actually paying for the payment of current pensions with only half of unfortunately the necessary pension funds being provided directly from the pension contribution and even half of them being secured from taxes, so directly from the state budget, and that is unfortunately a huge problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62693	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62694	Dear colleagues, I would fully respect your remarks if you were considering a pension insurance system only from a financial sustainability position, then you would agree immediately. However, I think that the pension insurance system is primarily a legal and political issue. Remember that each of the pensioners is also a voter, and the legal question is because it's about creating rights, personal rights over the years, and I can't on behalf of what someone once decided to put five billion in individual accounts because they saw a light in the darkness that is no longer seen today. No, I can't say that we have to blind ourselves to an injustice committed by family pensions because indeed 70 or 65 or 80 years of employment has value. Actualism is work in Italy, Germany, anywhere, and on the other hand, I have to admit the total number for 183 thousand lowest pensions and pay almost a billion more than it's earned, let's say, that's the expression of solidarity. Let's not increase it, but let's not increase it without touching the other one, not touching the family, not neglecting them, do something and find a possible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62695	Thank you, too. On behalf of the legislator of the Labour and Pension System Minister, Honorable Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62696	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the esteemed representative Maric fired a bullet but I see that in nothing, we began to share on it the JNA MPs, JNA so let's clear this article 80th, so it's not any recalculation of pensions, it's no new determination, but we said very simply that we wanted to, there's a representative Maric. So we very simply wanted to do what everyone expects us to do to separate the pensions that are due under the Pension Insurance Act from pensions under special laws, so these factors that are proposed are the factors in the share of pension training. Therefore, for parliamentarians, the proportion of pension staff is therefore paid up to 0,40 for the reason that parliamentary representatives went to retirement and left before the retirement of the age under the Pension Insurance Act. So there's no discrimination between either one or the other, so parliamentarians have a privilege, they have a privilege that they no longer have, neither you nor I nor any of us are going to retire under a special law, so that retirement could be left before the completion of the internship and age to retire without a pension, and that's the reflex in this. That is why these percentages, they will serve us only to discriminate in retirement, which part is harmonised under the Pension Insurance Act and which part of the pension is harmonised by law under these special laws. These are factors, so these factors are not any reductions, increases, harmonisation of pensions but simply factors that will allow us which part of the pension will be harmonised under the Pension Insurance Act and which part will be harmonised on the basis of that pension, that part of the pension is due under a special law, the fact is that parliamentary deputies have left and retired much earlier than it was legal procedure under the Pensions Act. We prefer to the Pension Insurance Act, so this factor is the recalculation of pensions, the separation of pensions to those two parts in order to align and isolate the systems, for the first time we will know how much money we need for pensions under the Pension Insurance Act and how much money we need exactly for pensions under the special laws that they were. So, no discrimination, no favoring or anything else, I absolutely reject it if we're talking about the internship, they all had their own internship that they deserved in one way or another. The state of Croatia has assumed the obligation to pay pensions as well as all other regulated countries. So that's what your government has introduced, so I don't see that there's any discrimination and I wouldn't want it to be this way and politicized right now, it's very clear, this factor is for recalculating which part of the pension is due under the Pension Insurance Act, which part of the pension is due under special laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62697	Thank you very much. Replica of the respected representative Gorana Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62698	Dear Minister. At least I went to school, ten times more than most of those and generals of the former Yugoslav People's Army and I can read the laws well and understand what it says. I know it's a calculation coefficient, so that's what I was talking about. You're saying that the different coefficient is because the MPs went in a privileged position. And who had the privileged position of leaving and retired from former Yugoslav People's Army? And who was privileged by members of the executive council of the former Yugoslavia and of all the administrative staff of the former Yugoslavia? Which one of them has ever been more privileged? And now in that calculation you want, that is, to have a smaller share of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, 0.45, disabled to have 0.45 and 0.40, and members of the former Yugoslav People's Army 0.65, and members of the executive council of the former Yugoslavia and administratively retired federal public servants, for family pensions, means their members, pensions, even 0.75. 50% higher coefficient compared to persons with disabilities in Croatia and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. They had an unfettered internship, and we, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, were not even recognised as an internship in the service of the Yugoslav People's Army. And then you say they're not privileged. They were then privileged, and now they are protected by their privilege with the addition of discrimination due to the diversity of coefficients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62699	Thank you very much. Replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62700	Thank you very much. Along with this argumented information brought out by a colleague, Maric, on whom there is no replication. The second is the question I discovered during the debate, i.e. Minister Mrsic's answer. Does your explanation that you have just presented about pensions under special conditions for parliamentary representatives, so, two or three times, we have changed until the final decision that you no longer go under special terms of retirement for parliamentary deputies, does it mean that someone who is 70 years old, 68 years of internship, 65 years of internship, is a parliamentary representative and realizes that he has achieved the right to retire, that there is a difference between parliamentary representatives in the amount of payments they have paid during their lives in the font of pension insurance? So someone else's pension is more justified than someone else's. Someone who worked for 42 years, so he's got a job job for 42 years, how much was his retirement payment, a contribution? And how many people who have worked for 20 or 22 years and are entitled to a pension on special terms? So it's not the same. We're not all the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62701	Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62702	I note that this law calculates the part of the pension that is due under special laws and part of the pension that is due under the Pension Insurance Act. It is therefore a very clear provision and contains everything that should have been in it, which means that we finance from the budget the part that is related to the specific pensions, and that part that is related to the Pension Insurance and Contribution Act is financed from the contributions. Therefore, this calculation is based on the age between early retirement under the special law and the age needed to retire under the Pension Insurance Act. So there's a very clear and clean thing, and I wouldn't ideologie and politicize on it. So we very simply separate two systems and for the first time we'll have a very clear picture of what part of the system costs us. As for Parliamentarians, we have made a decision, we are all going to retire under the Pension Insurance Act, so for us and for future generations that factor will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62703	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and Honored Representative Đuro Popijac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62704	Mr. President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The Pension Insurance Act is the basis of the current Croatian pension system established on three pillars in laws which are specifically governed by the conditions for the exercise of the rights of certain social groups in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the Pension Insurance Act, the legal framework of the Croatian Pension Insurance System also constitutes legislation on capitalised pension insurance on its mandatory second pillar and voluntary third pillar. The question, therefore, is what are the essential strategic other reasons to stop the law which characterises pension insurance based on generation solidarity in the Republic of Croatia, which has become the basis of the current pension system established on three pillars and that a new one is being adopted. Generally speaking and analysing the amount of change and news offered by this law in relation to the existing one, it can be rightly concluded that the novel of the applicable law would achieve the same purpose. The law does not change anything fundamentally or strategically, does not change anything in the very being of a pension insurance system but is about changes that are regularly regulated by novelties, nor does anything happen that would ultimately mean that reforms that would restore confidence in the sustainability of the pension system. It is obvious that the new legal text in the public wants to create an illusion that it is some new form of compulsory pension insurance with the purpose of creating the impression of major reforms that is constantly being served by this government. A few words at the beginning about the very formation of the institutions and the solutions offered. The provisions of the law set up HZMO as the holder of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity and operate as a public institution under the Law on Institutions and therefore we believe that the Institute should have a professional head, a person who, as defined by the Law on Institutions, conducts the professional work of the institution. In view of the fact that the activity of the institution is the implementation of compulsory pension insurance and the implementation of the procedure for the exercise of the payment right for children, it is doubtless that the Deputy Director, as defined by this proposal, is not the expert head of the profession throughout the institution within the meaning of the provisions of the Law on Institutions. That it is also said that the appointment of the Deputy Director prefers a medical profession in front of a legal profession or some other profession and a deputy director to manage the Institute Medical Skills Centro. Therefore, the Deputy Director is defined primarily as a person of medical profession who will be led by the Centre for Medical Engineering, not the professional work of the entire institution as defined by the Law on Institutions. We also believe that assistant directors should not be state officials and should not be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia but by the Administrative Council of the Office on the proposal of the Director of the Office. Several objections to the key provisions of this bill. So an increase in the age limit for going to full retirement. It is proposed that the age-retirement limit and early retirement are gradually increased by two years starting on 1 January 2031. In Croatia's current legislative practice, measures such as increasing age limits for the exercise of pension rights would begin to apply directly to the application of the law in general from 1 January of the year in which the law was passed, not 17 years after the entry into force of the law. It should be noted that it is common in the normative practices of Western European countries that laws are adopted in advance in the field of pension insurance which will enter into force within a few years. The reasons for this lie in the need to provide funding for the implementation of the new law in the meantime or to implement the necessary administrative and organisational preparations for its implementation. However, no case of delay in the application of a legal standard has been recorded for 17 years. This only means that the measure was proposed without any previous professional basis and that it was only proposed to do something. Something that will begin to apply in 2031 and end in 2038 really has nothing to do with the current and upcoming problems of our pension system. That doesn't solve anything. He probably wants to make an impression of the great readiness for reforms, but since he's not doing any political damage, it's not gonna cost anything. So either decide to make a serious proposal about this provision or get it kicked out of the law. Furthermore, retirement for long-term insurance. The right to retirement can also be proposed when 60 years of life and 41 years of insurance are completed. Compared to the long-standing law of 1964 and the legislation that was in force until 1999, the difference was only that it was possible to achieve an age pension with 40 years of internships and before the age of 60 and which was abundant and beneficial. This provision is contrary to the proposal's fundamental intensity to increase the retirement limit to 67 years, which justifies fiscal reasons and structural problems in the pension system. In this way, people who spend a long time in education are discriminated against, which is contrary to the definition of society that it is necessary to encourage young people to education and prepare for participation in the labour market through knowledge. They won't be able to retire at 60 because they won't have 41 years of training. According to this proposal, people with secondary education will be able to go 7 years earlier in retirement than those with university education because the age limit will generally move to 67 years. The introduction of years of internships as a criterion for early retirement reopens the space to artificially collect a pension internship through payments of various insurances as was the case before the 1999 reform, and we will again wonder that we have young pensioners. In the direction of this outcome, there is also a provision that a person who has spent two years on the stock market due to bankruptcy and who has the right to early retirement can make that early retirement without reducing the pension that has retired prematurely. This means that a 60-year-old man who is unemployed has the right to early retirement that will not be retired. reduced due to temporary retirement. However, the same man who works and decides on early retirement will be exposed to such a pension. This only serves to artificially reduce the number of unemployed. Instead of the government engaged in an economic recovery that would allow people close to retirement a possible opportunity for re-employment. The government is once again creating space for the pension system to be used as a place where problems in the economy are amortised. A new type of disability pension is proposed. a temporary disability pension which would be limited and would be entitled to former disabled workers who have been trained in professional rehabilitation under certain conditions. This pension could be used until the age to exercise the right to retirement after which it would be determined and used further as an adult pension. This provision would give the right to pension to persons trained for other jobs and should no longer have the status of disabled workers but to seek employment on the labour market as well as other unemployed. According to the current law, this person is in that position, but, of course, because of their high unemployment, they find employment difficult. The proposed provision would protect them as if they were disabled workers even though they were no longer. The proposed provision is therefore very questionable because it increases pension insurance costs for a group of persons no longer at risk of disability on the basis of which pension insurance rights are exercised. In addition, the proposed provision for that group of persons will increase the costs of implementing the pension system for at least 58 years of life until retirement. There is also a question of motives for introducing work opportunities up to half the working hours without reducing pensions. It's noble to think of possibilities for additional income for pensioners. But is right now a good time for that given the state of the labour market? 356,360 thousand unemployed soon with the highest rate of young educated people on the labour market today. And has the consequences of this provision been seriously considered? Isn't that an additional blow to the possibility of hiring highly educated young people, and isn't that opening up a space to knock down the labour price? This further discriminates against early pensioners who have been disabled even though pensions are less and additional income is, of course, more needed. The proposal also introduced a new pension coordination mechanism. In addition to the complexity of the system, the unknown effects of these changes are completely unclear, although it is claimed that this method will not lead to a decline in the real value of the pension. Also, does wages rise less than the price of pension incomes or general revenue of the budget? Thanks to the government's disastrous economic policy over the past two years, citizens' income has been getting smaller and smaller. Due to the tax press and the price of the decline in consumption, industrial production is dropping, budget revenues from all backgrounds are reduced. Here, of course, it is not said which new budget revenues will provide for these new legal rights. You have put your answer in the budget for next year, so through the growth of deficits, the growth of debt, the sale of assets, the new taxes and everything we have witnessed when we present your budget which btw is no longer as we see the messages from the European Union. In this regard, of course, I don't think it's the pensioners' fault, it's the government that's failing to start an economic recovery, which is the only possible formula for solving pension and pension system problems. Time's running out, so here's the bottom line. Despite a general assessment of all relevant participants in this process and trade unions and pensioners and the professional public that this bill is totally unacceptable to any interested group and that it is difficult to find understandable reasons for its adoption, the government continues to insist on its adoption. It is difficult without any professional analysis, effects, application of this law and on the status of existing pensioners and on the status of the pension system as a whole, on its sustainability and on the state budget in general to understand why such a law is adopted. It is therefore concluded that it is the fruit of trade within the coalition partners, that the result of the absence is any real intention to go into serious reform of the pension system, that it seems a serious step backwards from the existing situation and that this law is another one in a series of attempts and failures of this government. This law does not even represent a minimum step towards solving the difficult problems that threaten the collapse of the pension system. It brings a number of new, unrelated rights that will further pressure the budget but does not improve the status of the most vulnerable categories of pensioners. He does not answer difficult questions how to make the pension system sustainable at all. It is unclear and not understood in many segments and is ultimately harmful both to the state budget and to the economy and in the finality and to the pensioners both present and future. Well, here's what we find no reason to suggest we support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62705	Thank you, too. The first replica of the respected representative Zlatka Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62706	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Popiè, you have looked back at the age-limit for retirement, which extends from 65 to 67 years old, and you have considered that it has not been done on this basis any analysis and basis as an argument to extend the age limit. I just want to add to your finding that without a certain analysis the provisions are very dangerous. Why dangerous? Because it is a matter of individual jobs, difficult working conditions where workers in certain jobs will not be able to achieve that age limit for going to full-age retirement. And without a certain analysis, without a particular selection of individual professions, we will have a situation that today young people will be determined for certain occupations where they will be easier to provide age limits for retirement. And then we will come to that finding and the fact that the minister is saying that in the future we will have too little labour force and that this will also be the reason for the extension of the age limit, that we will have too little labour force for individual occupations because today we did not have a plan to extend the age limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62707	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62708	Thank you very much, President. Well, a colleague of course you realize that this provision is, in fact, in some ways, forced into the bill itself because it has no effect and no consequence of solving the big problems that shake the entire pension system. And what will be the state of the labour market in 17 years, of course we can assume, given that the consequences of this disastrous economic policy run by this government are likely to extend to the next 10 years. And we are not sure, so especially those arguments about 300, 400 thousand needed, the opening of new jobs that will be agreed in 20 years, and that is if even a short period of time this kind of economic policy of this government is likely to continue, in 20 years, it will be.../The speaker does not understand. So the bill itself is only an alibi, one makeup or one indication of the great willingness of this government to make reform demands, but all that has been introduced into these provisions is returning definitely the entire pension system a few steps back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62709	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62710	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow drinker, you said about article 35 that he was discriminating and that, in principle, those who study longer are a group that can be affected. I would say that exactly the opposite of this article was made, that so far it has been discriminated against by that group of Croatian workers who have worked all their lives, paid into the fund, in the end they couldn't even consume such a waste, spent after especially speaking those who physically had to work more in principle when they came to retirement then they couldn't even use it anymore. I don't think there's any discrimination here because in the extreme case people who are also college-educated, who therefore have some other broader possibility of hiring often times and want to work longer than this age limit that has been and are generally not even given up. So I think this is a good provision of the law and that it finally returned justice to those who have spent years paying into a pension fund so that, ultimately, if they wanted to, they could spend some of it at their adult age.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62711	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62712	Thank you very much. In today's composition to say so, the retirement population seems to me that only 11, 12, maybe 13 percent of people consume retirement and that they've been paying 40 or more years of retirement. So very few people retired in Croatia compared to the total number of pensioners with such an internship. I still definitely don't think it's right, because indeed all those who decide to continue schooling, and we want to have a knowledge country, we want to have jobs that are more added to the value that we say and we want to have investments that will not employ lower or medium-educated labour than investments that will bring better paid jobs, of course, and thus provide a longer working experience. And this is all another step towards suggesting that Croatia becomes and remains a country for the eventual opening of lower qualifications, underpaid, and therefore, of course, all problems both in the pension system and in the social system, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62713	Goran Maric, replica,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62714	Thank you very much. You said that this law was not acceptable, that it was privileged, that it would discriminate, and since the minister had just said that this remark was a commentary shot in vain then I kept a little more ammunition so that it wouldn't turn out like he claims so I'll compare how a group of former JNA members is further privileged. Compare paragraph 1 and paragraph 14 which compares Croatian defenders even though they should also distinguish volunteers from defenders. And item 14. that speaks again of the members of the JNA. The peace of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, old age pension and disability will be charged ultimately with a special regulation and coefficient of 0.85 and an item of the 14th pension of the insurance companies until 8 October '91. Done in the former JNA will have a 0.90 coefficient. It's a bigger coefficient again. A greater coefficient than a defense attorney. I never spoke from my corner because this law will not apply to me, nor have I used it, nor will I use privileged regulations, but I speak in principle and this is generally unacceptable, but some may be acceptable. Rascati would surely have been acceptable. Perhaps as textbooks are sent there far to see that this bill is sent, Raseta would accept it, and Kadjevic, as he raised his hand to Croatia, would raise his hand for this law, but I will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62715	Replication response, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62716	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Yes, my colleague, when I first read, I had the same problem with, of course, the whole... that was introduced into this law now on pension insurance, and before that it was gone. So there is indeed a question of all these solutions and all of these coefficients that you state and raise a really crucial question which is the fundamental purpose and intention of the promoter to propose a general law like this, and especially some of the provisions and especially some of the solutions that you have here well and seen. I repeat, therefore, that since neither the social dialogue participants nor the Croatian Retired Union nor the union centre have accepted it, it is totally unacceptable in terms of any more serious reform attempt, and then we can conclude that the key reasons for this law are, in fact, what you have here on several occasions and mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62717	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62718	Thank you very much. Comrade Drinker, does it seem to you that this law is passed just enough to say that we've changed something? Whether 80% of Croatian pensioners who have pensions below 3,000 kuna will change them will not. Will his fiscal impact lead to a situation where one or two percent more than now can be singled out in the second pillar? No, because Croatia is entering excessive deficit measures and definitely cannot afford the luxury of reducing its revenues by 2 billion and 800 million kuna. Then the question arises why is this law passed? Perhaps some groups should be helped by what counterpart Maric said. Maybe it's just so much to create a vision like this that something is done, and the effects of that are seen. Because if the effect of all this has been done over the past two years is a deficit of 20 billion kunas how much next year will be, then it's clear why laws like this are passed. Because these laws, which do not have an analytical basis, have led us to a reduction in our revenues from the state budget and to a rise in our expenditures. So this kind of document that's being brought in, which I'm going to say cyclical action, and its cost is growing in the future to this kind of gross explanation that its fiscal effect next year is going to be about a hundred million kunas is simply ridiculous. And it also sends another message to the finance minister next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62719	Djuro Pupil, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62720	Thank you very much. So, the distinguished colleague in the material itself and for the first reading we also commented when we were here to make our remarks that in that chapter that speaks about the impact on the budget and the necessary means that actually there is these arguments and these arguments are located because there is not one relevant indicator or analysis of what will happen with these effects over several years except for 2014 and 2015 in the total amount of about 235 million kuna. It's supposed to be a reduction. And what's going to happen in 2030 and 2038, of course, we can't even dream about it, and these very changes of this law suggest that some of the effects will happen in those years. Therefore, there is neither any serious analytical preparation for any of these changes nor any analysis of the impact on the budget nor on the income nor on the expenditure side, except for what various solutions are being put in place that are unknown and what will ultimately have an effect on the pensioners themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62721	We're continuing the debate. It's the club of representatives of the HNS and colleagues, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62722	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Peace policy is not an isolated policy. It includes and is related to employment policy, health policy, administrative policy and, of course, the fiscal policy that is spoken of here as non-existent. This fact that out of the 35 billion kunas we pay for pensions, we only collect 19 billion and that the difference is 16 billion kuna, which is exactly the same as the deficit of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. This fact is passed as if it did not exist and, of course, the fiscal sustainability of the Republic of Croatia's budget hangs on that fact, but of course all other policies. And because of these 16 billion, of course, it's not just a question of deficits, but it's also a question and investment in those areas of social life that could generate the country's development and growth. When it comes to reform, the question is that this reform should first go towards making the system financially sustainable. How do we achieve the financial sustainability of this system? By reducing pensions or by increasing redundancy for those pensions? What's the solution? One is socially inadmissible in these conditions in which we live, and the other is an additional burden of work and a reduction of competitiveness, which is a condition for getting out of the crisis. And any debate on pensions that does not have a mind to do with pension policy and this law is actually a deplaced debate and in fact aims to achieve some effects, but that the fundamental problem that this law is present, of course, cannot be solved because it is not resolved in such a short time because of these two conflicting demands. So these types of analysis actually don't want to get into the real state of our pension system and try to make a contribution. Of course it's easy to say that it's 16 billion kunas from the state budget, so what? But this is 16 billion kuna at the level of the deficit of the Republic of Croatia, and it should be said that this difference that the state budget had to pay for the pension system in the past 15 years has been steadily increasing from five, six billion kunas in 2000 we came to the 16 billion kuna difference in 2013 and that is, of course, the policy not only of course poor employment policies, overall poor economic policies, but also early retirement policies as some kind of substitute because there is no real economic policy. And, of course, there are elements of being courted to individual groups of constituencies and, of course, the spending of those money that we don't have and which our children will have to pay back. It's not just a matter of pension policy. Such a policy is also guided in areas of social care, policies towards people with disabilities. But this policy is most drastically visible and most difficult because it is, of course, the highest amount. The Republic of Croatia, according to an IMF survey which naturally requires the reduction of the 16 billion kuna hole, and secondly, which would be the second consolidation of the reform would be if it were not for the reduction of that difference. So, according to the 52-nation R & D survey in terms of pension spending, so total pension spending, is on the seventh from the back, so in a very bad place because our 35 billion kuna accounts for 10.6% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia. Some other data only paint, in fact only give an additional argument to what I was talking about, which is that the number of disability pensions in the Republic of Croatia is 27% of total pensions, which is significantly more than the average of the EU countries where the share of disability pensions in the total number of pensions ranges from 15% to 20%, is 27%. That's no small difference. And of course there was talk here about the growth of family pensions, which is again the fruit of poor economic policy and probably some other policies. In this regard, we probably do not stand well with other countries and when it comes to average internships. Thus, in the retirement pension in the Republic of Croatia and today, the average age of retirement is 32.6 years of employment compared to 40 or 45 and in the disability pension goes to 23.6 years of employment, which is also probably just one of the additional indicators or illustrations of this difficult problem in which the RH pension system is located. And it is therefore difficult to talk about reforming the pension system if there is no answer to the question of how to replace these 16 billion kunas and achieve full fiscal sustainability, i.e. the full financial sustainability of the Croatian pension system. The proposal for a law in times of crisis has the ambition to help the most vulnerable groups of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and correct some of the illogical and permanent injustices that existed in the present system. This is primarily a new way of harmonising pensions that is more favourable for pensioners both in times of growth and in times of crisis. Of course, there will be a question of financial effects. Last year, because wages, including inflation, have grown slower than pensions, there has been a decrease and the difference, of course, that is logical again in times of crisis, but this new formula of coordination that aims to help the most vulnerable groups of Croatian citizens, and certainly among them are pensioners, of course, will also have stable financial difficulties both in times of crisis and in times of growth. There will be a reduction in the difference between the average salary and the average pension, but of course this is the issue again of financial sustainability and the financial consequences of such a measure that we support because it is a measure that is actually taken under the difficult circumstances of the economic circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia is located. Of course, it is logical that the bill does not reduce pensions with 41 years of age and 60 years of life. It is equally logical that someone who retires 2 years ago, so after the bankruptcy of companies of 2 years, it is logical that this person is also not retired when going into retirement. It is logical that after he retired, he was hired for more than a year to grow his pension and not fall as before, so a very illogical and unfair provision. It is logical that children with disabilities who are employed, children of parents, not children of age, are entitled to a permanent family pension. It is the same, of course, measure that suits that group of endangered citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And of course, it is also logical that those who can work on the basis of Croatian laws for one half of their working hours, whether they have children with developmental difficulties, whether they are alone with the remaining working ability to count that internship as a full-time pension, rather than being further penalized. And these are all actually very positive measures that this law gives and, of course, have this dose of social sensitivity, especially in times of crisis that we are in. As for the possibility of a later retirement and work leave after a citizen retires from part-time may work without his pension being suspended, which is the new solution that the measure is of course to welcome. However, both measures will have full effect only under the conditions of a large number of job openings. If there are no jobs, then the later retirement or retirement after he retired from part - time work will actually go in some way to the harm of young people’s employment, which of course is not the goal. Therefore, this will certainly be especially so regarding the part-time work of pensioners that it will be a residential market... so it will not endanger because there are people with specific skills and those who hire them, we hope, of course, a private employer and not a state, will assess which one of his employees is better. In this sense, it is not a problem, but the fundamental question later on when going into retirement remains, in fact, the question is whether in such a way, in times when there are not enough jobs, the employment of young people is at risk? Every work is welcome and the work of mature people, therefore in a mature age and the work of young people, but there are still special youth employment policies because youth employment policies are stimulated by those types of employment that have a perspective so that they rest on modern technologies, so it should in some way always bear in mind that this later retirement can go to the harm not only of youth employment but of the quality of work that exists in the Republic of Croatia at all. So this law is a law that comes after 16 changes in the last 14 years as a whole law. He is of course not a law that can answer these questions, it is a little more complex, not only financially but a broader social issue but he gives these conditions some solutions that will help one part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and therefore the Club of HNS representatives will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62723	Thank you very much. Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62724	Dear fellow Rados, all this data that you have presented in your debate are facts that need to be repeated over and over again, and that is what you yourself said in the last 10 years from the downfall in the pension fund or for the pensions of Croatian pensioners of 5.6 billion in 2000, today it is 16 billion. It's a black hole that needs to be compensated every year. The peace has said you yourself 10.6% of GDP. Pensions are spent more than pension income. However, the measure to be taken which should reduce the number of pensioners shall not take effect until 17 years. So this measure at this point in time to resolve this situation brings nothing, one measure that you also spoke of but you also asked questions, so I am interested as a member of the opposition who, at the end of the day, is the view of the pensioners, who will be able to work part-time, is reducing the possibility of hiring young people. Which is why it's good and what makes it even a good measure to know that there are a lot of young educated people out of these unemployed people. How will the measure help resolve unemployment in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62725	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62726	My colleague Vuksic, the issue of extended job experience for retirement and youth employment is actually less about what you were talking about than the general increase in retirement age that is somewhat earlier than you said. Because I don't think it's a question, and it's not a problem of jeopardizing the employment of young pensioners with half the time because these people are going to be busy based on the interests of employers and on the basis of the specific knowledge they have. Therefore, it is a labour market that I do not think will seriously affect the endangerment or employment of young people. As for the first questions you've raised and that's a matter of minus 16 billion kuna, so 44&a pensions paid out of the state budget, I'm glad you noticed that, I'm glad you said it should be repeated over and over again. I do it all the time, I keep saying it, but I'd love it if you guys could help me out a little bit, if you would mention it sometime.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62727	Gold shower replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62728	Thank you. In your speech, you referred to the employment of young people and related to the ability of pensioners who exercise the right to full-age retirement and to work part-time. This provision will have far-reaching consequences not only on young people, it will also have consequences for the 350 thousand unemployed at the Employment Office because they will find it harder to reach their jobs and have both rights. If you have obtained the right to retire, then why remain in employment, then set aside the possibility that you can continue to work, so when you're done working, you'll retire. On the other hand, the question and the cost of working is that half-time employment is going to crash and the cost of working because employers are going to blackmail workers, so I can hire a pensioner to work cheaper for me and if you agree to a lower salary, then I'm going to hire you, I'm not going to hire a pensioner. That's why this solution isn't good. I'm not against pensioners making extra income but not in a way to hire whether it's by any other law, whether it's an act contract, whether it's a voucher or so, to allow them to do it but not to be retired and to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62729	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62730	When it comes to work, the most important thing is that work is good, that work is good and that work is well regulated, such work creates general social values, not only material values but also psychological values in society. These two groups you're talking about, so pensioners who work part-time and take full pension, and young people are, in fact, largely, groups that are not competent. The employer himself will decide whether the basis of the ability, will decide whether to accept a pensioner who can't, of course, be able to deal with the development or perspective with a young man, so that these two groups are actually very little endangering each other. The problem is bigger in the other issue that you haven't raised, which is the question that a group of large pensioners who leave later in retirement terms can open the problem, which is more serious than what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62731	Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62732	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Representative, I've been listening very carefully to your presentations, and here's a lot like the predecessors in this replication, and I'm just concerned about this longer stay in the world of work, so to speak, and this half-hourly, or four hours of retirement time. Is that even taking a job for young people? You've made an excellent explanation, and I've absolutely accepted it, so to speak. Now more, I think that this opportunity for the pensioners to do four hours, this is all you've stated, not to repeat, and I know from an example, I think it's better to give them a chance to work four hours than to be social cases and knock on the doors of city administrations or welfare centres. On that side. And on the other hand, we know that all those retirement waves from the '50s in this space, so to this day, they haven't opened and received those effects of large employment of unemployed or particularly young people. And you have rightly noted that there are specific policies for this, whether employment of young people or the creation of other socio-economic, or economic opportunities in the country. So, I think these four hours is a good solution, and the more I think that's part of the contribution to fighting work on black.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62733	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62734	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Procedural Minister with an assistant and colleagues and fellow MPs. Yes, exactly, as counterpart Rados said, he detected that exactly what the annual deficit of the Croatian budget is, 16 billion kuna, exactly the part that we pay for pensions, which is about 35, 36 billion kuna, is exactly the 16 billion from the budget, and 20 billion from the contributions paid by employees, the bonds of contributions. It would be good if we could make contributions, so what do we do about it? I didn't get that, and I didn't hear the answer. It would be best if, therefore, with the very contributions to employee pension insurance, we could fully cover that amount of 36 billion kuna. And then we wouldn't worry about budget deficits actually. But how do you do it? How to do this in a country where 60% of GDP is total, when we have 300,000 unemployed, when there are 18 000 unemployed at the Slavonski Brod Employment Office, of which there are 11 367 in Slavonski Brod. I'm talking November data, so last month. In Novi Gradišca, which has 14 000 inhabitants, there are 5372 people at the Employment Office. A third of New City. In Okucani, Okucani Municipality, which has about 4,000 inhabitants, 1320, the same third of the unemployed. Slavonski Brod has 11,000 unemployed, but it has about 60,000 inhabitants, so this relationship is relatively something better even though it is not great. That's the problem. How to hire these people so that they can fill the font of pension insurance with their pension contributions. That's... All the other things here in this bill, we can discuss, we can say it one way or another, we can say that this legal proposal, as well as the new balloon that was released, so the Act of Work with eight, eight, three times eight, twenty-four or I don't know what, that it's actually back to the age of naturalism of Emile Zola, a French writer who wrote the Germinal in which the workers were exploited until the last, to the last drop of their blood, working blood. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this legislative proposal, which provides for the 2030 retirement of 67 years with a certain advance on those who are 41 years old, so they can leave early. But look, who can leave? A highly educated man who can calm down to 60 years of age, 41 years of employment. If college, if it's the most regular, lasts until 24, 25, plus 41, it's 65. It can't be done. So there's a chance I'll say medium-educated or lower-educated, who got hired in the 18th, 19th, and by the age of 60, I can if they're lucky enough to work for 41 years, so regularly, then they can go to such a pension. The others can't. And there's going to be very few of them, and we don't even have to worry about how many of them they're going to be because today they're at work as Radoš said here, the conditions set by the employer. The occasional work, the temporary work, I'm going to give to the pensioner, the student, who are we going to let do a little work? It is true that in the developed democracies of the West and exist, there is, in England, employment of pensioners, for example, in the department stores when the customer attacks the so-called shopping industry. A weekend to hire pensioners. But it's not that time this is not the time when it should be working with us because a large mass of 50% of young people are unemployed, and now the employer will hire the pensioners for a lower price of work because it is more favourable for him because he will pay less. We leave at the mercy of the employer to decide, not to regulate it legally. In addition, a healthy pensioner is somewhat and mostly workable, but what our pensioners do, there is no Hrelje here, so there are a number of activities that are not of working relationships and are engaged in activities. And they're good to deal with it because it prolongs their lives. It's good that they do anything to not lose that work belt and that discipline work while they're working until they get their pension and they're dealing with something and it's good to deal with it, but not in a way that is prescribed by the law that they can be taken away like this, I'd almost say take away the opportunity and at least the occasional work of young people. Is that solidarity? We're talking about justice and solidarity. Is it solidarity with sons and children who have no business. The second thing, it is said, is that the purpose of this law is justice and solidarity. If we look at each individual then justice and solidarity don't have much to do with it. If you're going to be just then you don't have to be solid, if you're going to be solid then it doesn't go with justice. Let me just give you an example, but I didn't mean to use this, let's say, a parliamentary representative who has 40 years of internship and his contribution that pays regularly per month for the first column of 4,500 kuna, and for the second pillar of 1,500 kuna, that's 6,000 kunas a month times 40 years, that's 2 million and 880 thousand kuna. If he had a pension of 9,000 kuna, then he could enjoy that pension after 65 years to spend everything he paid by 91 years and a half to 92 years and not expect to live for 92 years. But clearly if we leave the world early, the funds he has paid remain solid to all those who have outlived and survived and are still receiving pensions. And it is said here that those who were in JNA or in the services of the federal executive council, etc. have the coefficients for family pensions Mr. Maric here said. And he says it can't be changed because we took those contracts from Yugoslavia. How can we not change? How can we change the rest of the country? We're changing everyone. We took the obligation to pay those pensions, but the terms of payment, the amount of payment, and we can determine it ourselves here, so it is not God-given that these pensions of JNA members or the federal executive council or I don't know what to say in Belgrade. Everything is touching, everything needs to be transparent. Why don't we here by our act of Parliament, by law, etc. And change that? Everyone has to be solid with this crisis. Everyone should be solid, I should go and say it myself. Here is the situation so that Europe recommends reducing the budget by expenditures of 3 billion kuna. There are collective agreements, there are all but states and situations in the state that have to cut wages, primarily starting with the head of government, parliament, state officials, officials, etc. and not cut out the educators' tickets to the bus, transportation. Let's count how much you need to take off. For those who have 25,000 kuna salaries as ministers 15%, those who have employees 5,000 kuna 5%, let's categorize and reduce. He doesn't mention it in order to take away a crumb, and we know what that so-called cry was. A crowbar here and all that's been said for that crowbar. I'm not defending HDZ or SDP here, and I'm not interested in each other. In the legal proposal itself and how we're going to get these 16 billion kunas, and you actually see if we compare year by year the difference between the total amount, the mass of pensions and what we get from contributions is getting bigger, and right on the burden of the budget. This is very slow to move because of unemployment, this part of 19, 20 billion kuna, and this part has grown from 14 to 16 billion kuna, this part that goes from the budget, and here we have the budget deficit, exactly how big it is for pensions. I don't mean to say you wouldn't give God that we should desecrate and such small pensions under 3,000 kunas indeed a large number of pensioners. But what is necessary is to increase the number of employees, to achieve new added value, and thus to fill the budget of the Peace Fund. Only then can we count on stopping, stopping at least these 16 billion kunas that come from the pension budget, and increasing that share of 20 billion kuna that comes out of the employment contributions. I still wanted to talk about the Pension Fund, he was and I said it last time and I commend the idea and the minister that, therefore, not to be completely self-critical but also to commend that he saw well that Croatia paid 120 million kunas not belonging to pensions per year, not to those who do not belong to pensions, 120 million kuna, and from year to year, I should say tens of years. And when I asked here how they regulate it, so he says, we're suing, so as you're suing, the court takes a hundred years never to collect it, it's mostly written off because it can't be returned. Whoever took it will have a hard time getting it back. There are also, in particular, those who live abroad and who have not been, the possibility of determining life or death has not been available, so they have received pensions abroad, but through authorities in the Republic of Croatia, and now, by seeking an OIB with a life certificate or death, there has been a mix. We can see how many reactions were in Croatia and around Croatia, how many reactions were to why the OIB is looking for us, so let them look for him. Well, it's not the Croatian state of milk cow because 10% pension goes abroad, is it, Mr. Minister? 10% of Croatian pensions go abroad, and 48 thousand have those who have not delivered the OIB, of which 3,000 in Croatia and 45 thousand abroad, are these true facts? They did. Well, look what it's all about. Half of those who receive pensions, to whom Croatia sends pensions abroad, have not delivered the OIB, where they and how much money they are, we don't see it here, it doesn't say. But for the fact that there really is a register, many registries, starting with those who are encumbered by tax, greater tax debt, greater than 15 thousand kuna, let us give those that we think have been under special conditions, anything, let it be announced how much they have contributed to the pension fund by their payments, and how much pension they receive and how long they receive it, and we will see where it is. That's where the solidarity comes in, but is it justice? When I graduated from college, I was still married in college, then I was just because I paid for kindergarten 900 then they were kuna dinars and next door next to me who were two workers paid 100 kunas for their child, my child ate nothing more than his kindergarten and so punished you your whole life. You can't retire at 65 because you're not 40 years old because you graduated from college at 25, 26, like who. Good thing I was gonna say a great student, so I ended up at 23. So we've been a warlord all your life, pay more kindergartens, pay wherever you need to be a doctor or so on, you're always on the wallpaper, and you're Duje on the wallpaper. And now you're retired again on the wallpaper and I said, and I counted what I paid for, that's over. Mostly we'll talk about this legal thing, we'll have two days to think about it, and then we'll think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62735	You have many replicas, but I would like to tell you no official in Croatia receives 25 thousand kuna salaries, no such official. I'm sure. Boris Kovac's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62736	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Representative, in your exposure, the time is leaking to me, but I'll wait for you to say, among other things, when you were talking about the pensioners, of course it's good to deal with anything, to do, not to lose their condition. I share that opinion if it comes to hobby employment, hobby work, home economy, etc., etc. But it seems to me that in that context you've spoken in mind and in this legal proposal of four hours of working time and in the light of that work, so, of course, it's been sticking through my head, so is it possible for you to defend and work on black, I think we're absolutely okay with that. And in the end, now you've offered me this last remark, and where you're in a hurry to retire, so you have a good job, here's not that flattering you has no reason to look good physically, hang on and then run away from the world of work, tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62737	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62738	I am now blushed by these compliments but well, thank you very much. I didn't say run or run but what you said yourself. You probably have a certain hobby, starting with vineyards, orchards, etc., beekeeping, there are various ways where people are not black but also starting with an OPG, etc. so I can participate in many activities. They don't have to wait to be competent with young people in employers for some job I don't know about for a month, two days, two three days a week, etc. Well, let's at least let those young people, or that's the intention of this government's policy to get all these young people out and not have them and to create an old man's society here, that wouldn't be good. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62739	Vanja Posavac replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62740	Thank you. Dear colleague, you spoke of retirement at age 60, 41, so you mentioned those who have high professional training, how will they accomplish it? That's not meant for them either. Let's be realistic, it's for those people who really started working even when they were 16, 17, 18 and working on heavy physical work mostly in most cases. Those people are satisfied with that norm. And I have to tell you that a lot of my colleagues asked me, do I have to retire now because I don't want to? Because I can actually, realistically, we can do it so I can do it to 67. Second, you keep talking with this pension and work up to half the time. It's just the law of what one part of the pensioner is actually already doing, which is that he's working on black. It will be possible for child-saving jobs, some kind of auxiliary business, it will not compromise the labour force of so young people, especially young people up to 30, 35 years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62741	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62742	You know what, ma'am... It's really funny for a colleague to say that you're going to take part-time care of your kids, which I don't understand at four o'clock. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I keep five grandkids and it's 20 hours a day overtime but I don't report it, I'm working on black. And as for that, and as far as this goes, you said 60, well, that's exactly what I said, and you can't make any argument about it. It's not about miners, about pilots, about divers, it's about anyone who's 60 years old and 41 years old who can retire, not that a miner, a pilot, and I don't know who. So it's impossible for any highly educated man to do that. You can't finish college when you're 19, you can't, you can't put it in. ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now, don't talk nonsense. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62743	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62744	Dear fellow Grubisic, here I will look back on two of your thesis, one thesis, with you fully agreeing with the pensioners will with this provision that I can work part-time to be a competition for young people and certainly that this time is not suitable for that. Because we have too many young unemployed, they're going to ruin the labour price, not pensioners, but capitalists by hiring pensioners. And one of the findings that you said that I agree to cut salaries to government officials right away, no one's leaving you. That's what you said. Labourers proposed to the government, they made a proposal in the procedure to cut all state officials' salaries 21% a few months ago. Then we got back the answer of course not accepted but also from many colleagues here in the Parliament that we are demagogues and that we are dealing with mere demagogy. To cut salaries to government officials for the ruling coalition is demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62745	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62746	Thank you, colleague Vuksic, I am, you are well understood what I said, so I told God we should come once and very quickly if possible until that day when we will be needed besides all the unemployed and the pensioners. God forbid he comes. Now it's now in Western Europe one to say trend. You have in England it's a very widespread phenomenon, in the UK. And as for these, pay cuts, so I think you're late with the proposal up to 21% namely VAT jumped to 25 and then change your proposal to 25% of government officials' salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62747	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62748	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Grubisic, you said that we can discuss what we want and how much we want and that the key problem remains, of course, the revenue side that would strengthen. Well, I'll discuss exactly what I want, if it helps, not about cows this time, but to those who grow cows I will. Those who have therefore spent their whole life dealing with this activity now have nothing to do with it because it is no longer available and will receive a pension when it comes to the order of 900 kuna. So it is a principle of justice and solidarity that is highly tested. The other thing I'm thinking loudly about is why this 17-year-old distance. Which, what effect that will have, what effect this will have now for these pensions next year, in two years, three, four years. I kind of don't get it, and I don't see it. And the third thing I think about is the same as a doctor who knows a lot of health issues and a third life and from the least of my life to the third life. And now I'm thinking that we're getting sick here in this High House and there's an ambulance and now a 67-year-old driver, I think, but we have to think about that moment, right? So these are the things that are little are for discussion and yet perhaps in the end that article 35 will be activated and these will leave sooner. But I do and I want to say for these 17 years alive they've been seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62749	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62750	Col. Milinkovic, it's even worse if someone gets sick if you and I at 67 are helping him out as doctors or working towards a surgeon at 67 years old where his tremors slowly appear. And otherwise, the average age of surgeons is 55 years. The average age of surgeons in the world is 55, as in Croatia 55 years. Here I've been six years, so that's it. I've already exceeded that age. And as for 2030, there's that song in the year 25, 25, so I wouldn't want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62751	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62752	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Grubisic, you've said nicely where all the taxpayers' money is wasted without the OIB, without records and also here it is also noticeable that this law is the factor used for the calculation of the disabled Homeland War and the defenders is 0.85 while in that same 80th in point 14. for former JNA members it is 0.90. And that's what worries who we keep raising. Are those who have made themselves available despite the fact that this number is as set out in Recital 573 and that they are suspended since they have very small incomes somewhere around 700 kuna a month? I think that regardless of which everyone who is being made available were ready to defend the Republic of Croatia to give their pain had opportunities as well. This is an incorrect explanation that they would be neglected or not used at times when they needed to. Therefore, I do not know why they are given a factor of 0.90 because only because they did not attack the Republic of Croatia or bring it down, it may be a reward because these 573 were passively observed or perhaps reporting what was happening in the Republic of Croatia. Maybe it's the current prize of the current government against them. This should have been mentioned since it is clear that they have more than those who have retired under the general rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62753	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62754	My colleague Djakic, it is really embarrassing in this situation of the financial crisis, almost debt slavery I would almost say more rights to those who were members of the JNA, regardless of their participation in an armed rebellion against the Republic of Croatia than Croatian defenders and disabled people of the Homeland War. How can I say bear with the right and suffer this crisis, and as announced already, pension cuts say those above 5,000, so in fact, it should not be given to God this factor or coefficient whatever you want from 0,90% and that it cannot be changed. It's not true that it can't, it can change if it wants to, but if it doesn't, and why won't, it's a big questionnaire. Why doesn't it touch, and I wouldn't want to talk about it in a parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62755	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62756	Dear colleague, at the very end of your debate, you had one such discourse about punishment. On their example, those who are more educated, or who have higher incomes. Personally, I cannot accept it, and I will never accept it because it is one of the fundamental values that I do not think we should leave in Croatia but also European social states that is exactly social solidarity. I personally wouldn't have graduated from college, and I don't think you would have, either, if it hadn't been for these 60-41s that started after high school, working on less paid and harder jobs. They then financed both my contributions and your studies. Therefore, the discourse of punishment and even debate in a way that someone is more or less punished in my opinion is absolutely unacceptable because it undermines the foundations of society's structures. It's the social solidarity of those who have with those who don't, those who have more with those who have less. I think it's totally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62757	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62758	My colleagues, you talk about solidarity while your government buys Toyotas that are more expensive, while your government buys a smartphone, while ministers travel through Bali etc. What you're even talking about here, what solidarity you're talking about, is that abroad, so when we're going west, people are paying themselves pensions and that, as one colleague here said, he was paying himself a second pillar at the bank and leaving money today, he'd have twice as much as he has in the second pillar of money. And that, I wasn't talking about not being for solidarity, but let's figure out how much it's been given, and how much it's been coming back during your life. How many years is your contribution to health greater than, I won't speak anyone's name now, from anyone. So I'm not against solidarity, I'm just saying that in some segments or sometimes solidarity and justice are versus, one against the other, so they're collapsing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62759	We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Zlatko Tušak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62760	Thank you very much. In his opening statement, the minister said the pension fund is in difficulty. I fully agree with it and could make a contribution to it because Croatian Labourers sent a bill at 4 months to reduce all officials' salaries by 21% and today before this debate could have been discussed so we could make our contribution to facilitate the situation in the pension fund. Otherwise, the law itself is more of a decoration than it solves problems in the pension fund, but it is said today by many speakers because the debt that is present in the Republic of Croatia, the deficit and with these new 3 billion that will need to be covered will be clearly felt by pensioners. This law did not want to enter into a deeper solution to the problem of the pension system and to create in some way a sustainable system for pensioners to have as much security as possible. Today there were speeches about the number and percentage of pensioners up to 3500 kuna pensions they have, and no one touched those pensioners who have 550,000 and have a pension of up to 2000 kuna. Knowing that poverty and the poverty threshold are just over 2,000 kunas for a single family, then it is no wonder that pensioners are mass digging through containers and extracting bottles to somehow survive and at least make sure they can eat. Today there was also talk here that the pension system should be reformed, this government is neither trying to go that way. We have time and indicated that a certain problem in the system is the second pillar of pension insurance in such a way that these are the funds that are very missing to ensure from the budget these 15 billion kunas for regular pension payments. And clearly, if we don't touch that part, we'll still have some problems. When I'm talking about it, I don't think that we should get into the rights of those who have been singled out for the second pillar of retirement insurance. They could decide whether to continue to leave their money in their accounts or to transfer their money to the first pillar, so it is their private property and they themselves should do so privately and privately. But the second pension column was introduced under some completely different circumstances, under a completely different situation in Croatia that was, and we know on what basis. Based on the World Bank's address. Today, we have a situation where 5% must be allocated under the law in that second pension column and no one wonders whether he wants to or doesn't want to, or would want to keep his money in the first pillar of generation solidarity. So let's at least be so solid that let's give it a chance for people to choose for themselves, and clearly that's going to be part of the larger funds in the budget. The law itself has quite a shortage and it is clear that Croatian Labourists will not support it in this form. On that basis, we have also invested a few amendments. The first thing I want to say is that we find it unacceptable to extend the age limit because we feel that neither good analysis has been made nor we have compared ourselves with other countries, but it has been decided that there is still some way to get along with others and we have shown that we have also started to make some changes in 17 years, so we will extend the age limit for retirement and we have not compared ourselves with the facts. For example, the life span of women in the EU is 82.4 years. In Croatia, the average life span is 79.2 years. That means it's smaller by 3.2 years. For men in the EU, it is 76.4 years. It's 72.3 years old in Croatia. So in Croatia, life span is less than 4.1 years old. The average life expectancy expected after 65 years for women in the EU is another 20.7 years for men 17.2 years. In Croatia, after 65 years, the life span for women is expected to be 17.2 years, for men 14.5 years. Did we have any of these arguments to think about what it means to extend our retirement age? I already said in my replica that it would have certain consequences, consequences on the choice of professions. Because clearly in all those jobs where working conditions tend to be difficult, young people will opt for other occupations where they will be able to experience either early retirement or this retirement, and they will not work in those jobs where conditions such as construction work are difficult, such as waiter jobs or those that I don't pick up on. There's a significant part of them, a large number. And we're going to have a problem with having deficit personnel in that area too. When it comes to going to retirement where it would go to early retirement at 60 and 41 years of training, we don't see any reason why it's 60 years old. We think it's enough to achieve 40 years to retire without training, without years of age. Because at the age of 40, we consider it sufficient to contribute to the right of a full retirement or early retirement in this case but without a reduction and a pension. On the other hand, there is an unfavorable part. Women who are in the transitional period will never be able to achieve this right by the age of 30, because they are in some way discriminated against by this law, at least they should be allowed to, and the moment when they get certain conditions and they do not have a reduction in pension. Furthermore, it sounded nice that those who ended up in bankruptcy for two years if they were at the Employment Service would be able to do so without a reduction if they were 60 years old and 35 years old without a downsizing. But the provision speaks incessantly at the Employment Service. What does that mean uninterrupted? This means if someone ended up in bankruptcy, he was at the Employment Service, he went to work for three days, and he had to go to public affairs no longer continuously and very few workers in such a situation and at the Employment Service will not be able to exercise their right to retire. On this basis, we will also submit certain amendments because we believe that in that part, injustice should be corrected and it should be two years, but not that it is uninterrupted. About this part when we were talking part-time for full-age retirement I said it in my replica and we still don't think it's acceptable when we have 360 thousand unemployed and 70,000 young people at the Employment Service and that it will only have negative connotations towards that group of citizens and workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62761	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62762	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, Tušak, you mentioned the age limit for retirement and expressed your suspicion, of course due respect for every age and respect, and I didn't mean to report in that sense, but we've already heard in previous discussions that here's also about surgeons and certain occupations that this is definitely coming into question and maybe this is what I was saying, but here's what I've been thinking about right now with my colleagues, so I was wondering if maybe you'd give your brakes on a car at 67 years old to some car mechanic? Well, I didn't get a very clear answer. But let me think in another way as a doctor who I know is quite a health issue at all ages, so let's say that at the age of three, there are both degenerative and cardiovascular and all other diseases. But look, now that we're discussing the health system, the lack of money in the health system, the rehabilitation of the health system, then there's always an extension of the life span as one of the arguments of raising costs in the health system, which, of course, confirms that it carries with it certain health problems and handicaps many people to be able to work at that age. So I believe that your thinking about that limit is, of course, on the right track, and I also express my doubts about the many health problems that many would have for sure and already in the younger ones because we are a sick people really in these circumstances when social opportunities are hard for them to think about, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62763	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62764	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you when it comes to auto mechanics, but I would not like you or me to drive a professional driver at 67 years of age so that his heart or something, especially what you have indicated, we have a lot of problems in health care. And when you mentioned health care and gave a comparison with health problems, we needed a foreign consulting agency to come here to Croatia and to find out that we do not have enough patients in certain hospitals to make them profitable for the sustainability and efficiency of hospitals because here we ourselves could not go into part of the reform, indicate, create an organization that will be effective but always take some other examples, and we do not want to analyse and see our own situation. So also this part of the extension of the working life, we do not want to see what the age limit is in Croatia, how it will reflect on our population, but we are turning to some others, Sweden, France where the age limit is much further. But these workers, too, work under some better conditions, not like us, where there are a lot of difficult conditions without saying physical jobs, and some at that age will never be able to make a full retirement. Either he's going into disability or he's going to retire early, and I told the pensions myself what they are like to have 550,000 pensioners who have under 2,000 kuna pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62765	And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62766	Dear fellow Tušak, you spoke of resisting retirement at 67 years of age, but the trend is in Croatia and the world as soon as you retire, the longer and more you work, 56 hours in particular on vouchers, less indefinitely. What's that for? They say it's a crisis. Now the question is, who's the crisis for? The net profit of capitalists in the most critical year in the Republic of Croatia was 10 billion kunas of higher profits. In the world, never more profit than in crisis years. The highest profits have been made just in recent years, from 2008 to today. Never again in a world of multibillionaires than in these crisis years. Never the greater difference between the rich and the poor. And now they say it's a crisis, we have to comply with the crisis, we have to adapt to the crisis. 10 billion kunas more capitalist profits during the Social Democratic Government. Everything, he says everything needs to be given as we popularly tell entrepreneurs, and these are capitalists, because there's capital, I guess, but we're ashamed to say it, and workers are nothing, crumbs. Because then it'll be better for who? The capitalists. The redistribution of that used to be called wealth now no one's talking. Well, that's just fine when representatives of the right or the capitalist don't talk, but that the Social Democratic government doesn't talk about it, that's embarrassing. And that's disturbing. So there's money just in the wrong pockets. For those of us who should defend those who chose us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62767	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62768	Thank you. I fully agree with my colleague Vuksic that in the crisis, very much profits are made by some on the back of workers because it is their excuse and then in that part we go and change the laws at the expense of workers, and it is clear that the profits will still be paid to that small number of employers because they are said to be lower. Yesterday I was on one round table and they let us know and they said, no, if you want to get out of the crisis, then you can't cut the labour price because you're reducing the labour price, you're reducing consumption, you're getting into a vicious circle that even production won't come back to life, and if you don't have and you're not focused on exporting, then there's no way out of this situation. This government has chosen to crack the rights of workers, to reduce the cost of work, and that is why we will not come out of the crisis in this way, and in the end Milanovic himself said that for two more years we will tap here where we are, and the question, I am afraid that we will not sink further.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62769	My fellow Zeljko Shemper, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62770	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. There is a second reading of the new Bill on Pension Insurance, which contains no significant changes compared to the first reading. After all the debates, the most disappointed representatives of the most numerous retirement associations, such as the Croatian Retired Mother, the Croatian Retired Union, the Association of pensioners of the MUP, have been disappointed because numerous amendments and additions have not been found in this final draft of the law. The Croatian party of pensioners also has observations and suggestions on certain solutions and provisions of a new legislative proposal that we will propose to the amendments to the legislator. We all know the most important causes and difficulties in the pension system, but they are not in the number of pensioners but in the prime number of employees. The Croatian ratio of pensioners and insurance companies is 1:1.20 and is at the very bottom of Europe, as well as the share of 40% of the average pension in the average salary. It is certain that such ratios are not the wrong generations of pensioners who have built their whole lives into the foundation of this Croatian state and created a medium industrial state from a poor agricultural state. In the proposal for this law, the proposer mainly took care of the sustainability of the pension system and did not, due to economic difficulties in the state budget, significantly try to solve key problems in certain types of pensions as regards the principles of solidarity and reciprocity. I draw particular attention to the problem of new pensioners to the big problem, which is family pensions. In Croatia, we have 249 000 family pensioners, of which 93% are women with an average pension of 1888 kuna, which is only 35% of the average salary. It is important that these pensions for the total internship of spouses are also paid contributions that our family pension institute is not worth at all. As a result, when better times come and after leaving the crisis, priority in the pension system should be the solution to the problem of family pensions. In this law, Article 35 will delight insurance companies who have entered the world of work at the age of 18 or 19, now have up to 44 years of internships and still do not have 65 years of life. Now with such an internship and 60 years of life, they will be able to retire early without a pension. So far, it has really been inappropriate for these pensioners to penalize up to 9% for such a respectable internship. According to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, there are about 11,000 potential pensioners who could use this provision of the law. In Article 85(3), there is the possibility of awarding a pension allowance after 65 years of life, although such an option must be agreed between the employer and the insurance undertaking. The question is, who can do anything after 65 years of life? This certainly cannot be done in difficult occupations when they were 18 and 19 and by 65 they had more than 45 years of training. Therefore, we consider the justified amendment of HSU to be an article 85 that acts stimulatingly on both these 11,000 and others who will have 41 years of standing and 60 years of living and can continue to work if they wish and can be rewarded by their 65th year of life and for this work. Our goal is certainly to stay longer at work, to pay our contributions and to retire as late as possible. For me, an unacceptable non-selective approach in determining the percentage of the pension of early retirement for women in Article 183 is unacceptable in the transitional period compared to the current pension. A dramatic example of such insecureness is the pension for 36 years of retirement training for women where the penalization is now increasing from 0.15 to 0.25%, which is an increase of 6% in 5 years. For this reason, I believe that the proposer will once again review the percentages of women’s penalisation and that our remark and amendment will be resolved in one more appropriate way. At the end of this debate, I believe that in our pension system, there is a need for analysis as long as solidarity goes in the lowest disability pensions and how to apply the principle of reciprocity in family pensions. In the end, I have to mention one of the biggest problems, which is a generation of new pensioners who retired from January 1st 1999 until today. There are 663 000, an average pension of 2033 kuna or 36% of the average salary that has been forgotten, and each year the state budget saves 3.5 billion kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62771	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62772	My esteemed colleague, Schamper, I've come forward with a replica just to support what you said in your presentation, which is about those pensioners or those workers who, before they were 65 years old, gained terms of retirement without fines, or how we say "penalization," and they have 41 years of work experience. It is certain that these people who started working at 18, 19 or started working before most of them are workers who were not working on heat, who were doing hard work, and who certainly after 41 years of investing in the Mirovinski Fund deserve to retire because they are not even able to work anymore. And the other thing, their pensions certainly won't be like the pensions of those who have VSS because they paid less will get less pensions and I think it's one of the best decisions in this law that we're discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62773	The answer to the line, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62774	I would like to thank my colleague Vuksic for your support, and we believe that this provision and this article are one of the best examples of how a longer working time should be solved. We at this point, as I said in the debate, have about 11 thousand such workers with 41 years of internship and 60 years of life, and they could retire immediately, but we try to get even one other amendment to stimulate them to stay in their workplace for as long as possible. Of course, probably at 60 they can still do it. Their assessment is to determine whether they will retire, but we all aim to retire as soon as possible and that these workers do not have to go with these conditions in early retirement, they can do their job and contribute to their later retirement. We have also made an amendment that such an internship after 41 years of life as well as after 65 years of life is stimulated and rewarded, of course, by those who can achieve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62775	And my colleague Boris Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62776	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Here I consider this text of the law acceptable of course under these socio-economic conditions. When we discussed the first reading of this law, I mentioned two bells, that at least two bells came up when it came to the pension system, so I'm going to do it again now. You know, the first bell was there in the 1970s, which actually rang the golden age of the pension system. Not only in Yugoslavia, then, our countries, but also in Europe, and we can say in the world. The second bell for some experts appeared there already in the early 1980s, but this time the alarm bell, although it is years to remind when even the relationship between insurance and pensioners is 3:1 or even more favourable than that. That's when that bell rang the alarm. Of course, today's number of pensioners and today's relationship between insurance and pensioners seems to me to be officially 1.23:1 that this is unfavourable and difficult, that earlier retirements under special regulations and almost 30% of disability pensions are primarily the result of certain policies, and most of all I dare to consolidate it is known which. I cannot accept today's findings that this law is anti-worker, it has been talked about even a whole range of at least three laws that are classified in that category, regardless of what else we have not discussed, and this one is not and cannot possibly take that qualification seriously more than that now and in spite of this qualification and in this assembly, and also in the public thus often the quasi-protectors of workers' rights appear, and it is precisely those who may not have given up the word worker for a decade or more than that, because it was not only expelled from public speech, but also one reluctance towards the worker, the worker's movement, the working class, and I don't know what everything is not. I have nothing against employees or employees and I used those terms myself but in a proper context. But on the other hand, I belong to that small group of people who have never been ashamed of the worker, I have never kicked him out of my vocabulary, and I still think it's a dear one, and it's the most appropriate expression. Why isn't this law anti-work? Well, first of all, I think because there are at least three conditions for it. It was said here, and most of the participants in the debate agreed that the conditions for retirement were improved, secondly, that the calculation of pensions was improved and thirdly, that an assessment of the sustainability of this system was made. Perhaps there is even the most fractured spear right about the sustainability problem. And I'm thinking about it that way, and of course I'm a little bit afraid. However, in the draft of this law, the government has also made stable analyses and estimates, so it is estimated, of course, that if we adopt such a law in the next period there by 2030, they will demand an expenditure-side increase of around 4.5 billion. But also estimates suggest that revenues could increase by about 5.5 billion. Why am I talking about all this and why do I think it's not anti-work? And because the promoter primarily led and took care of social sensitivity, of course, economic conditions, or possibilities. And what is particularly important today may not have been enough to talk about but when we discussed it in our first reading we talked about it much more and this is a demographic picture of our country and the environments I dare say which in any case is unfavourable when we look at the relationship between the working population and the ageing demographic mass. This is of course, it is a well-known thing to express myself in this way and that is what the proposal also proposed, in the proposal of this law, has also taken account of. And that's what's said. Of course, when we talk about sustainability, I also know about the skepticism and the academic community, especially the professional public and professionals in terms of labour law, especially the pension rights that may most reflect their skepticism about the sustainability of this system, while of course moving on in their assessment. Because as far as demographic situations are concerned, they expect us to continue to observe the pension system, we are expected to have even more unfavourable trends, which is that they are now going to retire and retire the so-called. Boom generation, bang generation '50. and some. And that's true, it's going to burden the entire demographic image of our country. But that's what the government took care of, and in that sense they were made to believe good judgments. Finally, allow me here, I will turn to my colleagues and colleagues from the Croatian Retirement Party and make an appeal first and foremost here to the ladies and gentlemen of that party. And I'm asking nicely from, not from the perspective of a 30-year-old, I wouldn't mind, but from the position of an insurance company that runs 41 years of employment. Well, it seems to me that I am right, I am not invited, but that I have the right to speak in this way and to ask you no matter how many amendments are or not accepted by the government that you have referred to the text of this law and I know that you too see the socio-economic situation and all of this that we have talked about through the first reading and through the second and professional public what it is talking about, I think these are the reasons. I know you're also accepting not only the wishes of the pensioners and especially those with low pensions, I know you're accepting other parties of the pension Corps that aren't sitting here in the Parliament, and I understand that, and I know that you're thinking about that, too. But regardless of what I'm saying, I'm saying, and right now from this point of view with this kind of internship, I'm closer to retirement than, therefore, I think this is possible and the only possible solution offered by this government and that there is a continuing struggle on the sustainability of this system that is foreseen by this law. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62777	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62778	Dear counterpart Kovačić, in your debate you referred to the false protectors of workers who had not mentioned the word worker for 10 years. I don't know who you mean but a little clarification. Don't talk like you used to in your party about some phenomena and some people, name those who didn't do it so for the record, that the public knows. Another thing that, if you know in the Croatian Constitution no mention of the word worker, there is no word worker. There are 40 times in the Bible the word worker is mentioned. In the Croatian Constitution, there is no salary but profit. Therefore, if something is anti-worker, then the Constitution is also anti-worker. What you said in the end that it was only acceptable in the context, I don't think it was the only acceptance. A little while ago I was talking about how this mantra is exactly on the back of workers despite the fact that 10 billion net incomes higher and even when we met the view you approved or I misread the body language, should be redistributed. There's talk of a social democratic government that wants to break everything over the back of workers. This law is what makes it possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62779	The answer to Boris Kovacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62780	Well, I've always been pretty clear through my life and you don't have the right to tell me this I don't know as my predecessors. Bad address, bad address for your remark. And it's hard to name everything because it's a wider list of it, but since you've already told me, in my neighborhood you'd say you'd pulled a tongue, don't you think, because here, of course, there's a part of it that Mr. Lesar went too, given his introductory exposure. Do you think he did enough in the '90s when he was in that position to protect workers' rights? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62781	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62782	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Kovačić, you spoke of bells in various circumstances, in various time periods, and I say that even now the bells ring and now they ring at the alarm, at the alarm for economic recovery to increase jobs, for those famous tsunamis. That would help this pension system for sure. But what I answered for the line was the part where you talked about disability pensions. You mentioned 30%. I know it's a little smaller, but also too much, I agree too much. But you said in a way like that all those disability pensions might have been wrong, you can assure me, that all those disability pensions were acquired in some way or other, but I want to say if there were any things, they always associate with Dr. Rubal, etc., let them deal with institutions that are therefore competent and let them work on these things. But secondly, I want to tell you that under the circumstances when they are, therefore, we do not have the conditions of what was said, the conditions of Sweden, the working environment. Of course, post-traumatic traumas are also to be taken into account other circumstances. I testify that our people are extremely ill, and not to mention that definition, I will repeat it now, a world health organization that says that health is a complete mental, physical and social well-being. So please tell us nicely what social well-being is, the people are very ill and they are very difficult and, of course, more and more often addressed to the doctor and, consequently, many are going into disability pensions, of course, the skills show it, and now it will be a unique body, and in that part, you should certainly think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62783	Replication response, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62784	Thank you, Your Honor, for giving me the opportunity and giving me the creamworth to answer these questions about the bell and about the disability pensions. I agree with you to ring the bell and now ring the alarm about economic opportunities and they are so deafening that even the government's appeal is often not heard in public, and I think your party is very helpful in that, and that it is not always the most constructive in solving these issues we agree on first-rate issues and first-class problems. Of course, when I was talking about disability pensions, I didn't say 30%, but I said about 30 to 30, of course it's 27, and I don't know how much in decimal terms I thought about it. And I didn't think they were all falsely acquired, not at all, and it couldn't come from my exposure, but I also think that our nation is not so sick that we would have almost 30% of people with disabilities, or disability pensions. Unfortunately, there are also people with disabilities who have no income, so we can talk if we're dealing with statistics now, then it's certain that these data is something else. I was talking in total about the pension Corps, about the ratio of 1.23:1 secured course pensioner, and even then in that context you agree here's what Mr. Vuksic would say, no-brainer, you agree that it's certainly too large, we're not so sick and maimed a nation, we're just not. I think Croatia is a society of healthy women and men.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62785	Minister Miranda Mrsic's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62786	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So at the end of this debate I'd like to say a few more things about the law itself. So the law is the act that allows all the changes that we have foreseen in the system to do so, so not only as regards the intergenerational solidarity system but also the system that is related to the second pension pillar, the third pension pillar and the pension insurance company. It is an entire mechanism that ensures that pensions are accepted and pensions are profitable and as far as the system itself is concerned, but most of all concerns those who will retire. Without these changes that we predicted the pensions of the first and second pension pillars in 2025, 2030 would be all between 20% and 30% of their salary, which is clear that something that is unsustainable and simply does not ensure a normal life. It's because of those generations that are now coming and going to retire that we're responsible to make these changes now and that's what we're doing. It is clear that the system will be sustainable at the moment when we have more employees than we have now so that the transfers from the budget are as small as possible, but on the other hand, by opening new jobs, we will also have greater revenues from the budget itself, which will also lead to the sustainability of the pension system. It would ideally be that we have 1:2, so one is retired, two are working and that is something we will see in the future and it is the only chance that the system itself will live and be sustainable, and that means that it should be employed in Croatia two and a half million people because the number of pensioners will always be there for about a million and two hundred, one million and three hundred, whatever we turn especially about what is now coming to us and baby boom generations. So, a generation of those born in the 1950s when between 60 and 90000 children were born in Croatia annually which puts great challenges to the system and we must all be responsible that those changes we are doing in the system must and should respond to that challenge. I wouldn't pollemize about ideological divisions, about who's what, how he retired. For us, all pensions are the same, so all pensions that are legally earned are there. And when we talk about the factors of recalculation, these factors are an auxiliary tool to discriminate against pensions that are due under special pension laws that are due under the Pension Insurance Act. He, that factor, does not serve anything to recalculate. Therefore, there will be no recalculation of pensions, but during 2014 all pensioners in Croatia who have pensions under special regulations will be shown in two parts. So, the part that was earned under the Pension Insurance Act and the other part that was earned under special laws. But clearly the amount of rest will remain the same as it was today. We also provided in the law that pensions that are then linked to specific laws, which are financed from the state budget, because it is clear that these pensions are not the ones that will finance that part of the pension that these pensions should follow the fate of the state budget and in this way we bind both formally and legally and legally and bind the system with this, so in 2014, we divided into two very, very clear systems. And for the first time, we'll know how much of the system we need to have money for. And for the end of the OIB and the big noise around the OIB that's rising. We therefore suspended 49586 pensions in October, of which 2809 pensions were paid in Croatia, noting that this does not mean that they are citizens of the Republic of Croatia because even according to that knowledge we have over 1100 of them are not even in the electoral list of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And we'll see where they are. These were mahogany payments to bank accounts, and the place of residence was always for someone with a permanent address. So they weren't permanent addresses. And 46777 were payments suspended abroad. So, state of affairs from a week ago. So, as of two days ago, since Monday, therefore 9.12 in Croatia, the payment of 1043 pensions has still been suspended and we expect these pensioners to report very quickly to us from other countries if they are in Croatia. And 27834 pensions were suspended abroad at the moment, so somewhere around 20,000 pensioners from foreign countries delivered the OIBs. So we stabilize the system, so in the system we'll finally have everything we should have. And yet I note that the OIB will also serve us to exchange data with insurance companies in other countries. And the first country with which we will establish it is the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, we will also make it easier for pensioners who live in those countries, while receiving a pension from Croatia to prove in a simpler way that the pensioner is alive and has the right to continue to receive a pension. That's it. I hope we get support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62787	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62788	Mr. Minister,... However, the biggest tragedy is when state institutions do not comply with the laws that have been passed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm not going to talk here about the period or this or the last government. The Law on the Personal Identification Number clearly states who is assigned to both residents and non-residents who have any transaction in the Republic of Croatia cannot be executed if there is no OIB. Therefore, pensions should not be paid to those who did not have an OIB. So I'm not going to talk about this period or that government at all. I'm talking about the law. However, it is very interesting that today more business banks are looking for a unique home number of citizens, a data that has not been in official application of the Republic of Croatia since 2002 or 2003. So, ten years. And as long as we function in such a way that something is given to someone, in fact, that something under the law must not be granted to them, then things like this will happen to us and social and policy policies of others. The OIB was just introduced for that. Therefore, no one in the Republic of Croatia can carry out any transaction unless it is registered through the OIB, based on the team and recorded in the Central Register. And any state institution that needs any information on the holder of that OIB can simply pull out of there. As long as we don't do that, as long as the state institutions are doing certain transactions, and they don't have the basis for this basic I.D. that ended up being adopted unanimously until then, yesterday we discussed the Social Care Act, today on the Pension Insurance Act. It may be some get something that doesn't belong to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62789	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62790	Well, the OIB Act was passed long before you even implemented it. What is the fact that we found in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office more than 80,000 pensioners who had not had an OIB. That should have been asked obviously by your fellow ministers before it was cleared up and for what. So we're going to have a completely clean situation right now. At this point I say we're left with 40 grand of those pensions that are... So half of what we started with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For that half of the rest we have received the OIBs and as you know for yourself a foreign citizen who receives transactions from Croatia is very simple the way in which the OIB is sought. So the request and the OIB you get. For the Croatian citizen base was that number of citizens, however, for these 2800 the number of citizens was either not worth it or was some mistake and it was necessary to align it. As you can see from 2900 suspended pensions somewhere over 1500 people have already coordinated it and received pensions. I note that we do not suspend the right to retire, so all those who deliver that information will continue to pay off after the data is received. But here's where we're finally going to have a system set up this year, and at the Pension Insurance Office, no more payments are going to go without the OIB.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62791	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this bill later. Now, we'd like to set a break by 15.00 hours, and we'll continue on the agenda. It's 13,19 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62792	Final proposal of the Pension Insurance Act, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 509. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am voting on the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking for a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that by a majority of the 82 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 2 abstentions, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like the representative of the motionary, that is, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Honored Minister Miranda Mrsic, to introduce us into Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62793	Therefore, Amendment 1 is more precise and more favourable in determining the reduction of early retirement pension for the completed 36-year retirement period to an insurance undertaking who, after a long-term insurance period in an effective period of time, postpones his departure to early retirement at 60 years of age, encourages his long-term stay in the world of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62794	I'm opening a debate. No one has any interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving amendment number one to the decision. Who's for Amendment number 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour, one vote against and 7 abstentions have been accepted by Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the same proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62795	This provision ensures the equal legal position of all pensioners in a Generational Solidarity System whose pension is lower than the lowest pension. It is prescribed that, with creditors whose pension is determined on the basis of salaries or basics of insurance below the minimum pension, they shall be entitled to a minimum pension. The lowest pension shall be determined for each year by a pension rate of 0.825 per cent of the average gross salary, maintaining the same level for the beneficiaries who made their pension effective before the entry into force of this law and the beneficiaries who will exercise the right to retire under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62796	I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am giving to declare Amendments No. 2 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 81 votes in favour and 15 votes against, 4 abstentions have been accepted by amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62797	This provision proposes the dynamics of equating the starting factor, which reduces the early retirement period between 2014 and 2030 by increasing the age for women by determining the percentage of the reduction in the starting factor each year by increasing the prescribed age by applying the starting factor for women as well as men in 2031.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62798	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state Amendment 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 4 abstentions have been accepted by amendment number 3 of the government of the Republic of Croatia and has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. We're going to the amendments to the table, Your Honor. Amendment No 1 of the Club of Representatives of the HSU
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62799	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62800	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62801	The amendment shall be accepted in part. The proposal is accepted to take place in points 7.8, 9.11. And the 12th word giving is replaced by the word "receivement", however, the proposal does not accept that in point 10.The insurance company replaces the words of a natural person, since the right to retire in a pension scheme and generational solidarity can only be achieved by an insurance undertaking and not by any natural person. The concept of insurance is defined in point 2 of Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62802	On behalf of the Proposer, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62803	Reason accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62804	The rest of it's pulling back?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62806	Thank you very much. Amendment number 3 of the Advocacy Clubs...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62807	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62808	Retracted. Thank you very much. We've already received a notice from the applicant for the amendment. Amendment number 4 of Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62809	The amendment is not accepted. The new Pension Insurance Act shall be adopted for a long-term period and shall lay down the conditions for the exercise of the right of retirement early retirement pension precisely after years of completion up to 67 years of life. The rise in age for obtaining the right to those pensions is proposed, starting with the projected demographic ageing by regular members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and other experts, on the basis of which it is concluded that an extended age of the population and in order to achieve the sustainability of the system as well as the need for greater activity of the elderly population on the labour market is necessary to access the gradual rise in retirement age.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62810	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62811	Thank you, Mr. President. So Croatian Labourists see no basis for extending the age limit for retirement especially because the application of this law will only be 17 years from now, and having current data that 3.2 years of women live shorter in Croatia than in the EU that men 4.1 years less live in Croatia than on average in the EU, and for example, they can only give you information that women live 6.1 years in Sweden for 7.1 years in France. The application of this law will apply to the part of workers who work hard jobs and their lifetime will not allow them to go to full-age retirement especially in industrially difficult jobs or for example waiters, construction workers, professional drivers, and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62812	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 4 of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much, I appreciate that he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 5 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62813	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Insurance undertakings operating in business where the insurance undertaking's occupation is accounted for with an increased duration due to long-term insurance may exercise the right to early retirement without a reduction in Article 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62814	The HDZ representative's club is seeking a vote on the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about Amendment number five, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much, I'm sure he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 6 of the same HDZ representative club. Retracted. Thank you very much. We got a notice. Amendment number 7 of Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62815	The amendment is not accepted. The new Pension Insurance Act shall be adopted for a long-term period and shall lay down the conditions for the exercise of the right to early retirement precisely by years until 62 years of age. The rise in age for obtaining the right to that pension is proposed, starting with the projected demographic ageing of the population made by regular members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and other experts, on the basis of which it is concluded that the age of the population is extended and in order to achieve the sustainability of the system as well as the need for greater activity of the older population on the labour market is necessary to access the gradual rise in age.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62816	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62817	Thank you, Mr. President. For going to early retirement, which extends from 60 to 62 years, the same explanation as the previous amendment, and therefore I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62818	Please state the amendment number 7 of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much, I appreciate that he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62819	The government doesn't accept. Insurance undertakings operating in business where the insurance undertaking's occupation is accounted for with an increased duration due to long-term insurance may exercise the right to early retirement without a reduction in Article 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62820	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, they shall request a vote. Please state the amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much, I appreciate that he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 9 of Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs in the Croatian Parliament. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62821	The government doesn't accept. Realising the right to early retirement without a reduction for long-term insurance companies with 60 years of life and 41 years of insurance training ensures adequate protection for persons who have gone to work early and have achieved a long-term internship. In addition, the proposal cannot be accepted because, contrary to Article 85, where the starting factor for determining the regular early retirement is Article 34, the insurance to a man with 40 years of retirement and 60 years of life is subject to a pension of 0,10% for each month early retirement before the age for retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62822	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62823	Thank you, Mr. President. Croatian Labourists think it should not be when it comes to 40 years of age, the age limit for retirement because we think there are enough deposits in pension funds at 40 years of age. This can be supported by the fact that going into full-age retirement is sufficient to be 65 years old and 35 years old in order to meet the conditions for full-age retirement, and at 35 years of training are less deposits in pension funds so that we consider that the 40-year limit to the right to go to retirement without a reduction is a completely justified reason. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62824	Are you asking for a vote? Please state the amendment number nine. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, which the government does not accept. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 10. Club of HDZ Representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62825	The amendment is not accepted. Insurance undertakings operating in business where the insurance undertaking's occupation is accounted for with an increased duration due to long-term insurance may exercise the right to early retirement without a reduction in Article 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62826	On behalf of the applicant's club, the esteemed representative, Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62827	I said the problem of professional firefighters working in public units, voluntary fire companies and units in an economy where these people are physically unable to perform quality service after 55 years. It's a practice in the world, and I don't see any reason why these firefighters wouldn't be allowed, so at age 55, I can't retire 41.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62828	Are you asking for a vote? I'd like to make a statement on Amendment 10. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 11. Croatian Labour Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62829	The amendment is not accepted. That provision adequately protected this extremely sensitive category of long-term workers who were continuously registered as unemployed in the Croatian Employment Office for a period of at least two years immediately prior to meeting the conditions for early retirement. An uninterrupted duration of unemployment of two years is an appropriate time-limit for early retirement without a reduction prescribed for the exercise of the right to early retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62830	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62831	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we can't just accept this argument, because it's really about workers who didn't end up in bankruptcy, and they found themselves at the Employment Service, and then by a provision like this, where they're said to have to be in the Employment Service for two years and they're practically left to the mercy and mercy of certain employees at the Employment Office. Whether to give them instructions to go for example to work 15 days for public jobs and on this basis, they will be able to terminate the pension application at the Employment Office and on this basis they will not be able to exercise the right to retire, while some who will not be referred to such jobs will be able to exercise the right to retire and will thus be put in a more unfavourable position. That is why we think it would be more appropriate for a provision to stand for 2 years at the Employment Service for all those who have found themselves due to bankruptcy and have 60 years of completed lives and ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62832	Please state the amendment number 11. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 12. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62833	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed starting factors are proportionate to the age prescribed for obtaining the right to pension and the length of use of the pension. The early retirement pension due to long-term insurance shall be determined without a reduction and if it is achieved at a lower age compared to the age prescribed for retirement. Article 85(4) increases the retirement pension for the first time after 65 years of life and 35 years of retirement pension for the reason that pension will be used shorter and early retirement pensions due to long-term insurance will be used significantly longer. It is therefore not acceptable to increase it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62834	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the honourable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62835	Since this amendment has been consummated by the government's amendment in the most part. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62836	Thank you very much. Amendment number 13. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62837	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62838	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment 14 has been withdrawn. Amendment number 15 of the same club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62839	The amendment shall be accepted in part. The proposed amendment of the title is accepted by the provision of the proposed member not to regulate the minimum pension institute and is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62840	Appreciation of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62841	Thank you very much. But what the minister said about not accepting was accepted by the government's amendment, so everything's fine. There really was a copy error. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62842	It's a great democracy. Thank you very much. The amendment's been withdrawn, right? Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Amendment number 16. Croatian Labour Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62843	The amendment is not accepted. This provision extends the circle of users who, in addition to retirement, work on age pension users, which is an appropriate measure in the current conditions. The age pensioners make a pension at a higher age or because of a long-term internship, so their investment in pension insurance achieves an optimal combination of risk and investment. Making it possible to work and receive pensions stimulates their continued stay in the world of work, which is particularly important for deficiting professions, and work up to half the full-time is aimed at meeting labour market needs for such a form of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62844	On behalf of the applicant, the Honorable Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62845	Thank you, Mr. President. So Croatian laborers cannot accept in a situation where there are 360,000 unemployed at the Croatian Employment Service, when there are over 70,000 young people who cannot find a job, when we have 166,000 long-term unemployed at the Employment Office we allow pensioners who have acquired conditions for full-age retirement to continue to work part-time on jobs. On this basis, they have two rights, while those at the Employment Service do not have the right to find a job. We are not against the fact that some other law regulates rights and that pensioners can generate additional income through a certain part of the war, but we are not in favour of eating two rights, the right to retire and the right to work. Someone who has obtained the right to retire is retired and, on some other basis, if he works, he could receive certain benefits, and especially here it is about breaking the labour price because in this way the employment of pensioners, employers will hardly ruin the price of work for current workers and employees. And please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62846	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 16 of Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 17 of the Legislative Committee, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62847	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62848	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 18 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62849	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62850	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number 19 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62851	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62852	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62853	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62854	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62855	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62856	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 22 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62857	The amendment is accepted in the amended form, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts this amendment on amendment and form since the consolidated text of the Pension Insurance Act has not been published in the National Journal No 114/2011. It's in People's Newspaper number 130/2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62858	I accept and withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62859	Thank you very much. The amendment was withdrawn in the section that the government changed. Amendment number 23 of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Honored Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62860	The amendment is not accepted, the proposed dynamic of equalising the tax factor which reduces the early retirement period between 2014 and 2030 is appropriate for the age of women and for the duration of the use of the pension and the need for women to be equal with men.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62861	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the honourable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62862	Since most of the amendments have been accepted through the amendment of the Government, I withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62863	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I confirm that most votes, 82 votes in favour and 18 votes against the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62864	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the Committee on War Veterans. We also have a representative of the proposing minister Miranda Mrsic, in the introduction. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62865	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You are presented with a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the reduction of pensions, which is achieved under specific rules on pension insurance with a final draft of the law. The law focuses on the need to achieve further savings including the area of pension insurance on the part of pensions financed in part or in whole from the state budget. The proposed law extends the cycle of pensions whose pensions are reduced by 1 January 2014 as pensions are also made under specific rules which were not the case in the previous law. And on the other hand, we're reducing the range in individual categories. Since 1 January 2014, we propose to reduce pensions by 10%, i.e. according to specific rules on pension insurance in the monthly amount of 5000 kuna, with the exception of the following categories: pensions in the monthly amount of less than 5000 kuna, pensions from the Homeland War and wartime invalids with damage to the organism of 100%, family pensions of children of the deadly Croatian defenders from the Homeland War without both parents, family pensions of these pensions belonging to children born in marriage or outside of marriage with other parents or widows, family pensions of children of the deadly Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, family pensions of widows who are beneficiaries of these pensions with children dead Croatian defenders, pensions under the Law of Special Rights of Pension Insurance and Rights on the basis of unemployment of employees in the Istrian coal mines TUBLJAK and LABIN pensions of pensioners. The adoption and application of the proposed law will save around 303 million kuna in 2014 and 326 million kuna in 2015. As far as pension cuts are concerned, so pensions decrease 10%, but no pension will fall below 5,000 kuna. For example, someone who has a pension, a gross pension of 5001 kuna, after a 10% reduction of his pension will be 5000kn. Whoever has a pension of 5500 kuna, after a 10% reduction, his pension will be 5000 kuna. That means no one's going to be under 5,000 kuna. When we talk about the scope of this law of 184 814 users by law, special retirement laws, this law includes 43 488 pensions, so pensioners. The average gross pension of users, hence the beneficiaries who are reducing pensions, is 7100 kuna, on average the pension is reduced by 640 kuna per month. We believe that with this fair burden of reduction we have passed on to those who at the moment have slightly greater pensions. Of course, we would be in the interest of not doing this, but the situation in the state budget and state finances is such that savings are needed to ensure that the pension system is sustainable, to ensure that pensions are paid. And I hope that the time will come for us to be able to put this law out of force, that is to say, to put a reduction beyond our strength, because that is what we predicted that we would do at the moment when we came to the recovery of our economy. In Article 6a, there is a clear reduction in pensions and pension incomes, i.e. pension supplements under this law, when the real growth of the gross domestic product in each of the three previous consecutive quarters is at least 2% compared to the same quarter of the previous calendar year and where the deficit of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia is less than 3% in the same period. I hope that we will accept this law, it goes with the aim of ensuring that pensions are paid, to ensure that pensions are harmonised where we can, and that pensions are paid on the other hand in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62866	Thank you, too. On behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62867	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we got this bill, we first wondered why 5,000 was taken as some kind of framework to cut pensions. Is 5,000 some kind of financial amount that doesn't allow for a decent life under it on these gatherings that are and we couldn't find an answer. The second question we have asked ourselves is that there are many who are in the system that they have made a pension under special regulations, which they have paid both in the first and second pension pillars, but their pensions are calculated according to special regulations. According to some who came to us even if their pension bill was like a payment to generation solidarity in order to make significant and larger pensions. But these people simply couldn't choose, they were given a pension, and now some of them, by the force of the law, are cutting pensions. It's unfair to teams who simply couldn't choose, but they found themselves in such a situation. On the other hand, when we see that somewhere in Croatia about 2,670,000 people who receive some income, which from their salary, which is only 540,000, is more than 5,000 kuna. 2 130 000 is below 5,000 kuna, and 1 100,000 is 2500 kuna. The minister here said this reduction will apply to 43 488 pensioners and will amount to 303 million in 2014 and 326 million in 2015. If we divide this year into 12 months, we get 25 million a month. If that 25 million a month will save the budget, we'll be able to see that later. I don't think so. If we stay this way again as we've been acting so far, we've been able to spend a lot of money on budgets to buy more expensive cars, on smartphones, on certain expensive trips. In that part, we didn't want to make any savings. Croatian Labourists have launched an initiative to amend the Law on State officials to cut wages, counting on wage cuts that we first need to be hit in this country, if we need to share the rest of the people's fate with us. No, first we go get everyone else, but I guess we're the last ones who should be in that line. It's unfair to the people who carried a very heavy burden on their backs, it's very unfair to 360 thousand unemployed who simply can't get to work, it's unfair to those who are hard to survive. Here when five thousand kunas were taken as some limit below which no pensions would be reduced, they were not asked whether some had credit obligations, whether some had obligations, what kind of family, was it 2,3,4,5 and perhaps 6 members of the family, and how when they had lessened their pension? No, we've determined we cut five thousand kunas and we said that's it. The result of that I said 25 million a month will be in the budget. Now, secondly, why do we lack money in the budget? Has two years of this government gone to the wind? Did we not create certain conditions to correct the economic situation in Croatia? The prime minister says we won't get better for the next two years. So the question is, do we even have a way out of this situation and are these 5,000 kunas just the beginning? First we fucked everybody, we lifted collective agreements, we reduced all our rights, we cut our salaries, now they've come to order and pensions. What happens after this pension? Anything else before, but the government officials don't pay. The Croatian Labourers' proposal of 4 months stands on hold and will not be headed here to the Parliament to discuss here. We saw the government's obvious statement that they couldn't cut certain salaries because then they'd be collapsing that certain professional associates or some others would have higher salaries than certain ministers, etc. This is why Croatian Labourists will not support this law, not because in some particular situation it would not be a measure that should reach for certain things to be resolved when it comes to the deficit in the budget, but rather because we are not going to support it first, so that we are not going to take away certain rights from others. That's our attitude, and we'll stick to that principle and beyond. But I'm afraid in this way we've gone one way that's gonna be unstoppable and we're going to fuck other rights, and on the one plan that we should work on in particular, which is the issue of economic recovery, economic development, new employment and pay increases, because by just increasing wages, we're going to stimulate certain consumption. Spending would provide more money through VAT and other allocations in contributions, we don't think about it that way. We're cutting ourselves some income and getting into a worse and worse situation. No one's going to solve these questions for us. I know it's from the ruling word, but we've inherited a difficult situation and I'm not amnesting HDZ. The HDZ is very much responsible for the situation in which we found ourselves, and that guilt has certainly been won by the citizens in the elections. But I don't understand the ruling that in this part they have not taken more seriously to solving these problems, but the malts not on the citizens are being led by certain presses and citizens are becoming more difficult and more difficult to live and increasingly reconcile their obligations and resolve their family problems, not to say that there are much bigger problems because of their lack of property and divorce in families and conflicts. And we have a very, very awkward situation when we take data that 1/3 of Croatian citizens are on the verge of poverty then I don't know if these other 2/3 citizens in Croatia can encourage this Croatia to come out of this crisis. I don't think having sex with each other right now is gonna get us out of this crisis. We're just gonna get further into an even bigger crisis. And that is why Croatian Labourists will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62868	Thank you. The first replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62869	Dear fellow Tušak so here is the law today, this law is being discussed because the crisis, it needs to be saved, it needs to be fucked, it needs to be solidarity, it needs to be adjusted and the burden of the crisis should be borne. Whose rights, whose crisis, I repeat as I did before in the previous debate, and I will repeat what I said before about what my colleague Maric mentioned in the Parliament the other day, net profits are increasing compared to the most potent in 2008 by 10 billion kuna. We are the country in which the biggest net profit in terms of GDP has been paid off. And now we're going over the burden of the crisis instead of the rich, we're going after the pensioners. Because 5 grand is the limit, we could get rich people, and then we'd have too many rich. I mean, this says enough how social-democratic this government is and how it gives one handful of rich people everything and it gives those who have five thousand kunas without looking at what five thousand kunas can buy. And what can be done with those billions with 34 billion or 34 billion profits that were paid in 2012, means net profits, which can be redistributed, as it can be taxed, that government doesn't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62870	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Tušak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62871	Thank you. A colleague of Vuksic, yes, those who have and do not want to be taxed, is taken from those who have less where they can still be taken. We are practically going to be able to take less and there will probably be a small number of citizens left that we will not take, which will continue to live very well and well. But the worst part of taking other people's pensions is that they don't have special pensions, they don't belong to this category at all. And if they do, their pensions are over five thousand kunas, and they wouldn't be retired under this law. But people just couldn't choose, they're here, they got that kind of pension solution because they worked there, and the best we're going to get them now, because they're still here we can take a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62872	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Nenad Stazic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62873	You're telling my colleague Tuška that you can't accept this law because I'm not leaving. This law reduces pensions by 10% under special regulations, popularly named in public privileged pensions. I don't know if you're familiar with this, but this parliamentary majority has abolished privileged pensions for itself, for parliamentary deputies. That is how the Kukuriku coalition and the parliamentary majority fulfilled the pre-election promise. You say it's you, that you'd be willing to cut your salary. Public notebooks I think are still working, go, make a statement that you're giving up your pay, let it stay in the budget, the government will commit to using it wisely for those who need it most, and thus you'll show that you're not a populist otherwise this is a beating of empty straw.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62874	Thank you. My colleague Tušak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62875	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Stazic, if it's any of the populism, that's what you said today. Because what we said was privileged pensions, it was also the pre-election program of Croatian Labourists. And since our first day of life, we've been intent on ending it, and we've voted for it, and in our discussions, we've been unique. If you've forgotten, I'm sorry, but try to remember. That's why, that's why you didn't even have the right to replicate about it and to say that I'm a populist. If I'm a populist, then you're a demagogue, very big. And when it comes to sharing fate with citizens, I was talking about the salaries and draft laws that Croatian Labourists have sent to the Parliament and he hasn't come to the agenda here for debate in the Parliament since 4 months. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62876	Thank you. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I agree, this is not the law and this is the kind of proposal that can be accepted. Why can't you? Because it really gets into the most vulnerable groups of our society. Among other things, they're defenders. Well, you see, it would be very convenient for this government to react to the fact that Minister Jovanovic, for example, did not pay travel expenses to teachers, teachers who travel outside the residence. That would be great. Well, if he had said, well, Minister Yakovina like Bali and six of your associates out there for the money that's inaccessible and I don't know who can pay you more. But the state pays for it from the budget. Even though Jacobini doesn't care because he doesn't care about farmers. Ma Jovanovic is not worried about education. Mr. Ostojić doesn't care about health care. The young doctors here have given it, applied for Norway, left. So who's going to treat us here in Croatia? Well, it's a disaster. And that's what your debate really hit, and it's great for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62878	Thank you. My colleague Tušak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62879	Thank you. When I was talking, I wasn't talking about any group, no defense attorneys, and there's cops, and there's everybody else. I think we all have to speak equally of no one when it comes to certain rights. And I totally agree with you colleagues. Many other things could have been saved, and these savings could have resulted in us today being able to have that 25 million a month in the budget and should not have come to this reduction. But no, it's been spent on more expensive cars, it's been spent on cell phones, it's been spent on a lot of things maybe we don't know, but maybe after we find out, I'm just guessing 'cause probably if these guys leak out to the public, then there are other things, and we don't want to be responsible. Clearly, if we do not want to act responsibly and move on from ourselves, then we have a result like this that we must give to some of the others who deserve the least of their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62880	Thank you. Next replica, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62881	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tušak, you spoke about new employment and actually the problem of employment and therefore, because of the lack of sufficient number of employees suffers from the pension system. In other words, politicians are so sweet that their candy is falling out of their mouths when it comes to new employment, when it comes to economic growth, when it comes to potential, when it comes to economic downturns, and more and more unemployed from day to day, and more and more economic downturns. So we have 46,000 unemployed highly educated people, we have 300,000 total unemployed, and every day we hear that new jobs are opening, only the problem is that one open job brings up to three closed jobs. We are changing the structure of the economy, the share of wages in total GDP is falling from year to year, and the share of profits in GDP and the share of taxes in GDP is growing systematically. That's not how you get out of the economic crisis. And now this bill of law can't be good because it's not a systematic analysis done. I wonder what someone can also estimate that 300,000 are now unemployed, and in 20 years, it will require 350,000 new employees that Croatia will not have. I don't know what kind of premise this crazy confusion took place. We don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow, and we know what's gonna happen in 20 years. That's pretentious.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62882	Time. Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62883	Thank you, I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62884	Okay, I was thinking more sentences here. I didn't mean for you to stop imperially, but to finish the closing sentence. Answer, Comrade Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62885	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maric, yes, this part of the economic data you said is a problem, and it is a particular problem when we bring it down to 300,000 unemployed and there is no new employment. When there is no new employment then and clearly not even certain indicators, there is less consumption, people spend less, and those who have little fear because of the situation and uncertainty that is going to happen, and this all has a result of a reflection on the economic situation. Secondly, you mentioned 46,000 higher education. No, they won't be, they'll be the first time they get caught abroad, they won't stay here in Croatia, and there's less chance of them staying here in Croatia. That's also the part of the problem when we talk about economic development. Does this government have strategies that matter in this economy, is it agriculture, is it trade, are they financial institutions? Do we have a way for this Croatia to go? Less and less is the part of the real sector that works, which generates some kind of income or some kind of profit, and they are becoming more and more difficult from month to month because in this difficult situation they find it very difficult to work. Clearly, they are afraid to hire, not because the cost of working in Croatia is large but only because they have no security, and safety is not achieved like this, but if there is no strategy and we have no goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62886	Thank you. And the last replica, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62887	Thank you very much. Well, Comrade Tušak, you said in the debate that this move is resorting to because there is no money. When we look at the 2011 budget, it was less than projected for nearly 7 billion kuna on the revenue side. The 2012 realization says that we will have more than a billion and a half kuna than in 2011, the achievement for 2013 projected a billion and a half kuna more than for 2012. Now comes one illogicality. In 2011, we paid off everything, there were bigger salaries, there were higher taxes, all collective contracts, all the additions with a much smaller budget. And now it's said all the time that the budget is that we save, we raise more money, and we can't pay off everything we have from the state budget. No one here wants to admit whether a system is created that does not create an opportunity to meet all the obligations that could have been settled with much less money in 2011. This is a fundamental issue and therefore, this law also looks like a prevention of failure, the economic objectives set in 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62888	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62889	Thank you. Comrade Boric, is, your data is partly accurate, but when we talk about what hit us, so we've been caught up in the wrong assessment of this government. The first moves that were made by these governments were tax presses. The tax press has given short effects, after these short positive effects we have now come into one situation that this is a burden for the economy, that prices have risen, that the standard of citizens is lower and now we are in one situation that we do not know how to get out of this situation. And when it comes to the budget, then clearly, here you have heard today, three billion new ones that we have to solve in our budget. Where we're going to get you 3 billion instead of taking someone back because we haven't created the conditions to create.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62890	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the club of representatives of the Croatian Party of Retirement, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62891	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with the Deputy. Look, raising your hand for this law is any problem that a little realistically sees things and indeed this law has a foothold only from the position of financial preservation of the system, the pension system, or in some way this is a victim to have an indexation of pensions in the following year. Therefore, the system must be defended in its frameworks, although financial increases are foreseen for next year, but it is assumed to be for the inflow of new pensioners. What personally adds bitterness to this law to me is that all the time we've been dealing with the average salary level and that no pensions will be touched from that level, but now we have a sum of 5000 kuna. I just hope this is the last time we're touching the so-called. privileged pensions, i.e. pensions under special regulations for one single reason because we can or already work now or tomorrow would do even more damage because it is about individual rights. Indeed, some of the beneficiaries of these pensions can have 95% earned pensions, and only 5% in some way of privileged share, and we also touch them. Of course, by virtue of the Pension Insurance Act, they all have the right to recalculate these pensions under general rules, but not by automation but by their request from the Pension Insurance Office of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, there is no concern that someone who has really received a pension under the general rules who is being denied that it will be denied because definitely the pensioner has the right to go to the pension insurance office’s regional service and to seek a recalculation, or to seek his pension by general rules and has the right to choose for himself a more favourable right, that is, the right that is in some way untouchable to him, which is a pension under special regulations. Of course, I must admit that we are, that I am pleased that the motionary Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the competent ministry, has said that pensions are exempt under the Law on Special Rights in Pension Insurance and the rights of business unemployment of employees in the Istrian coal mines of Tuljek and also the law on conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension of workers of professionally exposed asbestos. It is okay for the state to accept the price of solving a socio-health problem and an economic problem where it has been proved absolutely no longer paid to miners given the eightfold increase in the price of mining and that this was for the country of Croatia one solution and that price should be paid. I mean, you shouldn't think that God knows what kind of concession the ministry has made. It's a total of 15 people who have received into these two categories, who have received more than 5000 kuna, so it's not some big discount. What I'd like to say and underline very much is that when we go down like this, we always, always touch individual rights. And we always make mistakes and we always have tails. And yet again, I hope that after the separation this story will stop knowing how much who has earned it and how much added right. You know, neither the previous governments have ever worked without sin in this, in any of these cases or in other cases. I'm going to share with us a letter from one of our civil aviation pilots who came to us because there are no privileged conditions under these laws for retirement rather than by the benefits of a work-time, the state nationalised his payments to another pension column. She shouldn't have done that. For what? Because he has one-off high deposits based on 15%, and on that basis, he is entitled to the highest pension. There are three such people, four in Croatia. Indeed, the state did not need to nationalise these 300,000 kunas that they had collected in the second pillar within 10 years but had to let them wait 65 years, a condition for retirement and start using an additional 1000 kuna pension. Because it's their property, so it has nothing to do with this law. I'm just trying to say that we're wrong when we abandon individual rights. Not all insurance companies are in the same conditions. I think that in Croatia, the party to the pensioners had a correct proposal, he did not satisfy the obviously resolute ministry by the amount because our forum of defenders in Croatia the party of the pensioners said that this is the last thing that should come, and that we should review how much unsupervised consumption we have in the unspective units of local self-government. Whether we need all these agencies or we have created them and strengthened them and that this should be done in a way that the percentages of three, six, nine, twelve percent are applied above certain amounts. We've been open to other combinations. But the ministry thought this was supposed to be like this and I don't mind. So he has the right to propose. Of course, what we suggested would be a lot more work, because then a ladder would be made, and those who have a lower rate would be taken away. Those who have a higher percentage. Of course, what needs to be commented here, or I would like the minister to look back on, of course, in his consideration of the debate that there is a reduction in the addition to retirement for academics here. So, this procedure is important because it is different from others, because they have practically their pension under the general rules based on a long-term internship and then they have an academic supplement, so I'm wondering if the supplement is removed 10 percent or 10 percent, so it's taken off on the add-on. So that's one dilemma so we don't have a better or less better category in this. And Article 6a. It also deserves a comment because it seems to me that this reduction, which I would like to make as soon as possible and that as quickly as possible, we have separations so that we know what we have paid by an individual by contributions, which is an additional right. But this article 6a. It really doesn't give much hope because I don't see that light at the end of the tunnel that 3 consecutive periods will have a growth of gross social product greater than 2% and that soon, although we will probably have to put that deficit below 3% in next year. But I have a bigger problem with this growth, the growth of gross social product. And last but not least, I repeat again it will be very difficult to raise your hand for this law because it is also about our colleagues and party members and everything there is. However, we also know that we do not have much choice in preserving another institute that is harmonisation. I just want to say that we're going to have an amendment in front of the club in Article 4 where there's a formulation that's not used in our legal system, where the formulation in subparagraph is two with damage to the body by 100%. It's used with body damage by 100%. We know we understand what we're talking about, but it's the usual formula that I've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62892	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Josip Djakic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62893	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Hrelja, in your debate, you were very glad to be excluded from this law by coal miners Topljak and Labin from Labin. When you express that you are sorry and that you will find it difficult to accept this law, you should have said that it is visible and nice that the 100% disabled people of the Homeland War are excluded, that it is nice and commendable that they are not taxed children without both parents. But it's a pity that the other people with disabilities are the subject of this law who certainly won't pay these money, that you are sorry that they died and their families are subject to taxation in this way, that you are sorry that the families of the dead are the subject of this law and that they are imprisoned and missing and parents are also those who now have ten percent less due to their children. I'd be glad you mentioned that, too. You forgot, but you regret it because this law must be applied. You should have said that your coalition partner did not meet expectations in these two years and that it brought Croatia to the brink of collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62894	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Hrelja, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62895	I have to admit, my former coalition partner didn't exactly solve all his problems, and he also failed these categories he mentioned here. I'm sorry I didn't mention it, I'm glad they were excluded. I admit it's my fault. For all those who are excluded, I'm glad and you're right. But you know the mistakes have been made long before. This should never have been studied as an intruder to the entire pension system. I'm not saying that these people didn't deserve what they have, but it was supposed to be a special fund, and then this wouldn't happen, that in the name of everything it's shortened and one category that's been marked and stegmatized for more time. I'm building for every one of them if he feels offended by anyone who deserves everything he deserves. However, you know as well as I do that there are many things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62896	Thank you. Marin Jurjevic, replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62897	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. You said it was hard to vote for this law, even though at first you were actually explaining why this law was passed. As you well know, there are few working people who can get their pensions calmly and make them bigger. Why did that happen? You said something now, but you know there's a saying on our islands that says the lock is to live without a sink. So it's a skill to live without work. There are a lot of people who think they can live without a job, and at some point this country has set up a retirement area for pensioners who were 40, 45 years old and 50 years old. And what happened? That the one who works, the one who sinks, carries on the back three people who are sometimes just locks. So the skill to sit on the back of the working one. There's a problem, it's a fundamental problem. And it wasn't this government that led to it, it's just trying to get out of a situation that's almost impossible, which is difficult, and instead of getting us all into the same car now we're hearing that this government is wrong, that it doesn't know that it's the worst possible solution because it can't solve what other people have on her back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62898	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club And I'm sorry, the answer. [[Intruder: E, op, op was.]] Here's a colleague of the Hrelja. You did not lift the panel Okay, thank you. [[Intruder: Yes, we haven't seen.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62899	Yes, I did. As a matter of fact, dear colleague Jurjevic, you know that if we were to quote people's proverbs in this High Croatian House, then the least we could do is make a mistake. But, you know, I've expressed my opinion between myself and the personal attitude of the club, because in our membership we have quite a number of people who will be damaged by this law that I wouldn't say that what they have didn't deserve in any way, honorable people. And you have to understand us that as with you and us and that I seem to have told me one broad opinion that it's hard to always raise your hand for laws that reduce rights. It's not always possible to avoid but that's hard, it's hard. And it's not exactly what I care about, so no one thinks we're playing here and not thinking about the consequences of our decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62900	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative club Vice-President Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62901	Thank you, dear Vice President. HINA's news -- the defenders agreed to cut pensions. Representatives of Croatian defenders' associations backed a proposal Monday for measures by the Croatian government to reduce defence pensions. The president of the Homeland War Veterans Association has expressed confidence in the government. When the situation is explained, every Croatian defender must be aware to take part of the burden on his back. As at the beginning of the Homeland War and the creation of the homeland, we are prepared to give up part of the income that would help consolidate the state budget and extract from the RS crisis, said HDZ's president Josip Djakic, otherwise HVIDRA. The news of HINA isn't since yesterday or the day before yesterday. That's news from July 20th 2009. In 2010, the HDZ proposed and, most of it, adopted a law called the Law on the reduction of pensions, which were achieved under specific rules on pension insurance with the final proposal for the law. Here it is, it was marked 545, today it has a mark of 554, a coincidence. Under the HDZ law, pensions were reduced for all defenders, children of the deceased defenders who lost both parents and all 100% were not excluded 100% of the first category disabled, only the first categories were not all 100%. That's what HVIDRA's president at the time was very supportive. The children of the dead defenders were excluded only before the September 2011 elections themselves when it was obvious that HDZ was losing the election, so it was necessary to try one of these tricks to gain a little more confidence. I was saying then, when HDZ proposed a 10% reduction for all so-called. Preferred pensions, I spoke on behalf of the SDP club. Today I took out a phonogram of that debate, I could repeat it without changing a single comma, without changing any of the binders. What did I say back there? At first, I said that the SDP club would support the adoption of this legislative proposal. Because the SDP club was a responsible opposition that understood the situation and supported the government when it proposed such measures because it realised it was necessary. I said then they were afraid of tunnels, the electricity was being sold cheap, so the money was gone. Retired people, even if they are retired under special regulations, will have to make up for that money, that is the essence of this legislative proposal. You see, at the time, I only naively mentioned tunnels and HEP because at the time, I still didn't know about FIMI MEDIA, mountaineering, INA and MOL. These are the additional reasons why this government must reach out for the same measure. That rude, impertinent robbery. I said then pensions on the burden of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute by years of internships, by payments and by some addition that would be paid out of the budget and which would bring the Croatian Parliament to the table would be a systematic solution. So, set aside for all of these by privileged regulations. You've earned part of your pension with your work, your payments, and that's the part that nobody touches on you. But this supplement has to go from the state budget and it has to be a special part of the pension. That's what I was saying at the time on behalf of the SDP club, and this morning we discussed the law that this government is implementing. That's how a consistent party behaves. Who are all that now and there I was then saying who are now all the groups are covered. The first and most numerous Croatian defenders, then 68 630, are now 72 432, 3802 defenders are the difference. The Defense Corps has grown. They must have joined the war in 2010. Then the NOR participants were then 40 633, and now there are 23 973, so the Croatian Army and members of the Croatian Homeland Army from '41 to '45. There were 19 000 now were 11 114. Then I told Minister Mrsic, then I said that I did not know why this group was called members of the Croatian Homeland Army because such military formations in World War II were not there. There were partisans, they go into this group of NOR participants, there were Ustashas and there were natives. Well, Minister, I suggest you, I'll repeat what I was saying in 2010 ask the government to change this, to have people call their brother according to the formations they were in. So let them write that they were in the homelands or that they were in the Ustashas, so it will be easier when we know who was in the Ustashas it will be easier to arrange to block the president and the government when she's putting on some kind of crown antifascism if there are such monuments in Croatia at all. 4th group I said then workers in certain business home affairs and justice, well, so the Croatian Defence Council, citizens who do not live in the Republic of Croatia have never worked in it, have not even paid off their salaries in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia, but the Republic of Croatia is selflessly, sacrificedly from the budget of the citizens and paying them pensions and still privileged. Okay. How did the War Veterans Committee then assess HDZ's bill? On behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Josip Djakic, the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, held at its 19th session on 20 May 2010 considered the proposal of the Law on the reduction of pensions, which were made under specific rules on pension insurance. The Committee does not object to the adoption of an emergency procedure law, the Committee accepts the draft law. Most defenders are aware of the moment in which we are also in a hurry for economic recovery, leaving the crisis, which has a number of opportunities in various areas, says the War Veterans Committee. In the name of the HDZ club, Boris Kunst was at the time, if anyone else remembers him. He said HDZ is heartily accepting the bill on reducing pensions, including these defences. Stjepan Milinkovic spoke of HDZ, thinking is different of course either on the left or on the right, which is why and why, but it is certainly necessary to say that it is responsibility and decisive action, and in that part I will support this law. I don't know if he's gonna do it today. And then the cream on the cake, he speaks and esteemed colleague Djakic and says, "It is certain that Croatian wartime people as a population of victims of the Homeland War are not those who view this only from a material perspective but also look at the stability of Croatia's state, its budget, its survival, etc. Surely the measures here are neither popular nor light, and when we discussed them and with the population I represent, we certainly had doubts, but we had no doubt that 10% is necessary for all linear and equal to all those who have over 3,500 kuna, it was no doubt. Conscious and aware of the Croatian state we wanted and which we love today and which we want to continue to operate on legal grounds. By solidarity with everyone else in order to achieve our incomes, we want to stress that we have accepted 10% as necessary and necessary today." Okay, now we don't want to talk about style. Yes, privileged peacetime subjects of individuals who do not want to change their rhetoric, who do not actually want to agree that none of the Croatian defenders fought for privileges or privileges, fought for Croatia's homeland because that was the time needed. So I believe that, above all, the disabled, the families of the dead, the children, imagine the children, those who are without parents are aware of the situation, and that together with the entire Croatian society, they will carry the burden of this crisis, etc., etc. These two laws of this HDZ and today, they tell a story. They tell the story of consistency and inconsistency, the story of seriousness and of populism, the story of responsibility. The story should be heard by Croatian citizens. Would this law have to be passed at all? Would it even be necessary to reduce any pensions and according to privileged regulations that Croatia so thoroughly robbed? I'm sure you wouldn't, my colleague Djakic certainly wouldn't. But after this inappropriate robbery, after the destruction of Croatia to this government, there is nothing left but to save the ship, to save the ship in which you pierced the holes and into which the water penetrates. And until those holes are fixed, and it's gonna take time for them to repair, the pumps have to be turned on, the water has to be flushed out. I must, I must save the ship. You leaned him dangerously, damaged him terribly. I wonder what you're going to say today. I on behalf of the SDP can repeat everything I said and then. I'd like to know how you will deal with your words today according to your opinions at the time. The SDP club is not happy that this law must be passed. We're unhappy, we're unhappy. And we take it as a necessity. It's a necessity for your actions in the last eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62902	Now we'll move on the replicas. Josip Boric first reported And I'm sorry, Djakic. [[Intruder: Djakić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, it's all true what you read from my performances and speeches. And today I'm going to do the same as then. Yes, we were not in favour, but we were reasonable and we accepted the coordination of all associations, in the debates that we had ten times in a row in order to agree on views and opinions to help the state of Croatia. And we never called like you Croatian defenders chauvinists, barbarians and ignorants. These are your words to the Croatian defenders, look. Be ashamed of these statements of yours and of your speech. We created the Croatian state in blood, body parts, sweat and our wounds, and we are not ashamed of it, Mr. Stazic. What did you do at the time? You haven't spent seven kunas at sea, have you? Don't you use the state garage like you're using today for free? Are you even the kind of guy who can talk about some rights of Croatian defenders? Of the lives, of the lives of the dead [[Intruding Batinić: A colleague of Djakic!]] The families that were killed in the Homeland War, the missing people they're looking for today. [[Intruding Batinić: A colleague of Djakic!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62904	I warn you, my colleague Djakic. Who are you warning, Mr. Vice President? You've overstepped the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62905	Who are you warning? Why are you warning me? So what happened,... And you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62906	I give you a warning from my colleague Djakic. You still have time for a replica and I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62907	So a devastated country like you've been calling two years of patching holes and deepening them even more. With 16 billion budget deficits, with all the negative trends, you've destroyed everything that's been destroyed. You've closed 25 thousand turns, and you've got more to talk about in the first place. Tell me what you did, the lady you throw away, you remember your husband and those burdens you put on them,... /Intruding Batinić: Time of fellow Djakic./ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62908	We have a reply to the replica of Vice President Stazic. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62909	Let's get out of this last regulation of yours. Mrs. Sobol's husband has been legally cleared of all charges. Therefore, someone who is legally free of all charges to his wife may object to something, so only a man with no face, no shame. Now like this, now move on. The defenders, Croatian defenders and Kotromanović are also Fred Matic, whom you made impossible in Vukovar to light candles with your dead associates. The child of the deceased defender is Bojan Glavasevic whom you have prevented from lighting a candle to your dead father, that is your relationship with the defenders. I didn't call the defenders barbarians because then I'd call the barbarians Fred Matic and Kotromanovic. No, no, no, no, I called those who do not know that Cyrillic is a Croatian letter, that it was written by the Polish Statute in Bosnia until the 19th century by the Cyrillic. I called the barbarians the ones that break bilingual records. 'Cause whoever hammers on the letters tomorrow's hammer is gonna break somebody's head with that same hammer. Take care of that, Djakic. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62910	Thank you. Next replica Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62911	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stazić, when you speak, you compare things that happened almost 4 years ago when Croatia was practically at the beginning of a global economic and financial crisis that has been shaking here for four and a half years. You forget that this government has hardly done anything or has any results on the recovery of such a situation. You forget the fact that Croatia is the only country in the region that has not yet come out of the crisis, all other countries have come out of the crisis only Croatia has not come out of the crisis. And it is the defenders who need to pay the price of incompetence of this current authority who is neither able nor competent to face these huge financial and economic challenges. That's the reason and it's the key thing that leads to this law and a 10% pension reduction. And you forget one thing, HDZ's power and HDZ's government has always had a dialogue with the defenders. And when the most difficult and unpopular measures were taken, at least they talked to the defenders. And you're not even able to talk to the defense attorneys for a simple reason because you're afraid of a defense attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62912	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask that we refrain from commenting, throwing, there is an ongoing debate, and I ask that we, too, stick together with the Rules of Procedure. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62913	You're saying this government didn't do anything. Well, it's incorrect. The 25.7 billion deficit has dropped to 17 as much as it could. Everyone would love it more and everyone would love it if it wasn't for the deficit, the deficit you created, you'd be in charge of the world. And why is that? Not to build something, but to steal it. That's why you're in charge of Croatia. I found a replica that I said to Djakic in 2010 and listen to my colleague, Ivić, for what I told him. You say, so Djakic, we will surely endure these measures prepared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I have no doubt at all, but whether the pensioners who have 3400 kunas, even if by special regulations but 3400 kunas, which you now take 10% say they fought for this country, yes, they fought not only for the freedom of this country but also for Croatia as a country of prosperity. When you won power, you inherited GDP from the Racan government of 6.5%, you destroyed everything, like you did in '99. You left the country with a negative growth rate, so you'll leave it after these elections. You did this to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to those same defenders because they share the fate of this country. As you can see, I was a good prophet, unfortunately a good prophet. You've left the country in debt again, in GDP's downfall, stolen, robbed, abandoned. You know what Djakic said back then, you're laughing like a jerk because you look like one. It's the level of your parliamentary representatives. Thank you. Thank you. An apology from my colleague, Milas, a replica. I misrepresented you, first of all, to my colleague Ivić, then to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62915	All right, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Stazic, I won't, I don't want to, and I can't talk in this way, with the dialogue that's being conducted here, but if we're going back in history, then we're going back really a few years, so let's just say that it looks like every government that goes through this unfortunate country looks like it's by default if it's not going well, if it doesn't have an economic effect to simply take off its defenders, take off their families and how God gives them. So it happened in 2000, although then pensions were not to say turned 180 degrees, even the personal invalids who had never returned were abolished. It happened in 2010, but here it happens today, although the defenders have always been... the last line of defense. Why this is happening this way we have to ask ourselves, not the defenders. And secondly, when you go back to history and talk about what categories, Ustashas, Partizans, antifascism, and in the context of Vukovar, don't talk in context, but tell it specifically because those in Vukovar who you say are being prevented by Kotromanovic or another president, so many of them who were there have shown everyone what antifascism is in a way that the great Serbian fascists in '91. prevent them from doing what they could and allow all of us to sit here. So don't speak in the context of it, but if you're talking, speak specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62916	Thank you. Answer, Vice President Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62917	Comrade Milas, you know I greatly appreciate you. You're a reasonable man, I think a good man, an honest man. It's not the same thing, it wasn't even done in 2010 and now. Back then, you were cutting defense pensions all over 3500 kuna, now the lower limit is 5,000 kuna. It's not the same. You grabbed more, you grabbed deeper. I understood it and I said on behalf of the SDP I was speaking and we realized it, we understood that need and we supported you, we supported you as a position. We didn't want to pick up cheap political points and some cheap political extra profit. We didn't mean to. We were responsible. I call upon you, who I truly appreciate as a reasonable man, understand this government now, understand that it is necessary and understand that it represents no evil of the Croatian government or any evil but a necessary, necessary measure to save the ship from sinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62918	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic, you have spoken and moralized here, and it is you, and it is in front of the government, as they already call it the governments of unfulfilled political promises. You spoke and grieved over 2009 and how defenders and other populations needed to reduce their pensions and what you referred to. You see, in 2000, when you came to power, you were equal to 6 billion without any scruples, and you fired military and police officers, and the total debt to return these lawsuits to the government after 2003 was 6 billion, and then you spoke to Mr. Stazic about the tunnels that were painted. Yes, those who painted those tunnels are now in Remetec, and while they painted it you're neat with someone now, there's also ministers, spending their summers, it hurts you but it's true, for 7 kuna and you're standing there, they're in Remetinco and you're standing and moralizing. And then your colleague Stazić would not weep over the educators, those who travel outside of his place of residence, and you would not have mercy on the doctors, so you would not have mercy on 360 and more than thousands of unemployed, and when you came to power there were 317 000. You've been raising a terrible rebellion, promising to be under 200,000 employees, and here's what incompetence has done and grampity. You can't warn about the grampity of fellow Stazic, you can't warn your government and the people of your government about your summer vacation in Bali, so that's embarrassing. At this hour. Cars, phones and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62920	Thank you. Your time has run out, colleagues of the twilight. We have a reply to the replica, Vice President Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62921	Well, look, that mantra of yours about summering for 7 kunas on Brijuni first, that's not true, and the second one was the last political season, you're totally de-model. Besides, objecting to 7 kunas to someone who stole 7 billion kunas is completely unserious. ... /The noise in the hall./... You say I objected to the tunnels, painting the tunnels. So clearly I objected to painting the tunnel when you paid three times for painting the tunnel. I didn't know yet, when I was talking about tunnels back then, I still didn't know how much was stolen on highway construction that cost a mile more than the Racan era. And you know, speaking of these tunnels, you can paint as much as you want, you can try painting, but your citizens aren't tunnels to paint a few times.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62922	Thank you. I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues again, let's not throw them out of the bench. Here, please. We're moving on with the replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62923	Dear fellow Stazic, this is difficult to admit to some things to fellow MPs who are not in the same club. But I have to say, I've never said that to an excellently prepared speech. You beat your rivals with their tools, and in that part, I fully agree. We're not close enough to compliment you, politically I mean, we're not that close. So I'm closer to him than I am to you, of course. What you lack, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is a dialogue, it is a dialogue that is missing, and what has excess HDZ is manipulation. And we shouldn't be having such a heated discussion not because we're afraid, we're afraid because it's not good. So if something that was in 2010, I even know that a colleague said that they were delighted to accept the reduction, with enthusiasm. Now so many soles to attack what was done the same. I don't think it's good, it's not good for the defenders, it's not good. I think that too, that we don't open up the wounds of Vukovar that were long ago, and those that were now, that were being opened when they were being manipulated by individuals and when that manipulation was directed not to establish some rights, but to bring down someone. It's not nice, it's not good, and it's quite certain that we as a Parliament don't like it here and that we need to discuss this law with sober heads. Is that good or isn't it? My criticism is that of the 34 billion profits. It hurts me, redistribution. The rich have more and less.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62924	Thank you. Vice President Stazic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62925	So look at this first part of your replica where you praise me that I've prepared the debate well I won't answer because I'd have to agree with you, and then I'd turn out to be immodest. But the other one that the government lacks dialogue will. There's no lack of the government of dialogue, only for dialogue it takes two. The prime minister went to Vukovar to talk to that famous Staff. He took them in to talk to them, and how did they respond? To block the whole state top and show that they're actually practicing the coup. Therefore, everything is organised by HDZ. With such difficulty you can have a dialogue, we will have to agree on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62926	Thank you. I've got a Sun Head in writing, a replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62927	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice President Stazic, you've done all of this very theatrically. I'm giving compliments to the theatre, but I'm afraid you were in front of the club just because you were in charge, but you were on very thin ice. When you went back to the past and said that you were the responsible opposition and you're inviting us to be the responsible opposition. Dear Vice President, when a proposal arrives, be assured that it will be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia we will support it. However, I am sorry that you have apostrophe of the defenders in this context, and you have well thought of it, to take this debate in another direction. And please, you led that attack is the best defense. You can be very constructive, I know that, but today you have an ungrateful role to defend what is difficult to defend. You say you're here to save us. I'm really begging you don't save us in this way, because then we really don't have any help. As far as this kind of debate is concerned, I'm asking you nicely, I'm a child of a working family, I didn't steal anything as well as many of my colleagues here from HDZ, and stop telling all of us that we're thieves. Be honest, point your finger at those who are and please, after two years of power, be responsible. If you ever do this to us again, then I ask you to apologize because this is the way you insult my parents who have worked honestly as workers and all of us who make a fair living from HDZ and do our job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62928	Comrade twilight, I expected a replica. Excuse me, colleague Glavak, excuse me. I was expecting a replica. I ask you not to use the replica to use the replica. We have the answer to Vice President Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62929	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Listen, comrades, judge HDZ. It's not my fault. And when we warned here that such a process might occur, when we were asking for watches, for pictures, for what the villa was bought from, you applauded Sanader here. You were yelling here, jumping on the benches as much as you supported him. Well, if you'd said one word then, if you were one, the only word you said, then you might have spoken the Path, don't generalize it. You say don't save us because our salvation is gone. So what are we doing? So we offer a softer law than you have adopted it, gentler. Well, we use the same tools. So if you were then saving the land with such a law, why now do you deny us the right to save it by the same measure? Well, you're not a logical colleague. You're not saying you were a constructive opposition. Well, rather than being a constructive opposition. Well, we understood you at that point. Well, we didn't boil your liver, we supported you with that law, we supported it because we realized it was necessary. You were a bad authority, unfortunately. Show now that you can be a better opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62930	Thank you. Let's not throw it away, please. And the last replica, Ante Jerolimov. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62931	Thank you, Vice President. You spoke on behalf of the club about the law, and I didn't hear a word about that law. I don't think you know what the law says either because you haven't said a word about it, you've quoted some newspaper articles, you've talked about some statements, you've dealt with individuals and you haven't touched that law at all, you've just talked about how consistent you are in your statements. So I ask you, are you consistent that the defenders are chauvinists, barbarians and ignorants, and since I'm a little new here, I'd like you to quote me one of your 1990s or 1991s statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62932	Thank you. We have an answer, Vice President Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62933	I don't know what kind of statement you're referring to in '90, '91. whether I'm consistent with what I told the defenders. First of all, I didn't tell the defenders. And I'm already here, I don't know what you're reading from, but I know what I said. And I can bring it to you, I think I have it preserved and my speech in Istria. That you work from the original, but not from something certain. I've already explained here, I think it's illiterate and barbaric who won't learn that Cyrillic and Croatian letters are the dominant Croatian letter until the 19th century. I suggest that in the castle of Count Eltz we create an exhibition of Croatian Cyrillic monuments so that you come to the ceremony of opening the exhibition, Pozaic can bless it so that you can see what Cyrillic is and that those who break the Cyrillic bilingual plates to tell them people you attack the Croatian letter. You're welcome to learn something. Because don't be so illiterate. I told them that, not the defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62934	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At least now we know what Mr. Stazic's letter is, and I believe I won't get a warning because I speak in front of the club. The HDZ Club cannot agree this time with the proposal of this law and rejects it entirely since Croatian defenders, disabled Homeland War, parents of the dead, children imprisoned and missing, themselves imprisoned and missing should not be subject to the patching of holes or the recovery of the state budget. The state budget of the Republic of Croatia is in difficulty, we are aware of this, but Croatian defenders and the population of the victims who are on the wallpaper of the budgeting of their funds are certainly the population of the responsible people in the fight for freedom, independence against the barbarians, against the occupiers and against those who have destroyed Croatia. This population of people who, with their body parts, with their lives, with their blood, sweat, and diseases that they have earned in this country’s Liberation War, should not pay a few taxes to everyone and everyone. We paid the burden of the crisis once. The HDZ asked and prayed to the defence population, and then he collected several times, a number of times agreeing on these issues that are so difficult and affecting the existence of those who are most needy, who are no longer able to find a job, to hire or business, or their spouses are no longer able to get a job, given that the years have passed. HDZ this time as a club does not support patching We were against those who stole, we allowed that if they were found to have reached into the state pocket we allowed and gave the instruments legally to be sanctioned but no one had yet been legally convicted. And therefore, the HDZ Club continues to use the presummation of innocence for everyone until proven otherwise, but Croatian defenders are those who, according to special laws, exercise their rights, which are often the subject of attacking those or those, as soon as they raise their voice, as soon as they clearly and loudly say what they are up against, as soon as they disagree with the policy of certain current authorities, then the problems occur. Yes, the HDZ club also agreed this time that it is not appropriate and that it will not result in a 10% reduction of Croatian defenders. And so we believe that everything that has been missed in the Republic of Croatia in the past and which has caused negative trends cannot be covered by the population of Croatian defenders even though it is not the only one. According to special regulations, 15 categories of people are in the pension system, if you agree with me ministers and assistants, you probably know that this is the mass of those on that list from various spheres. I can also read to you who these are, and however not necessary, you can see their pensions and everything else. But none of these populations can be seen with a population of victims, killed, imprisoned, missing, people without hands, legs, blind, deaf, without body parts, punctured, wounded and mentally injured. It cannot be those who will solve Croatia's situation and problems in the Republic of Croatia. They can't be several times penalized by anyone. Since Pančić 2001 and the then coalition authorities this would be the 8th time respected ladies and gentlemen for Croatian defenders to be on various grounds and at two and a half percent of the special tax and 6% on a given category and 10% and for taking rights and with various, different provisions that have lost their rights only at the moment because most of this was returned to the original state of interest from the Croatian state. Each individual who filed a lawsuit, however, lost both his nerves and his health additionally in those proceedings. And that's what no one needs today. Today, no one should be reunited with a population that will be one protected and the other penalized. Why? It's discrimination against a group of victims who use the state budget, that's what happens recklessly. In law, we write so clumsy that we don't realize maybe the way individuals think we are, they won't even understand that in those objects of reduction. It says, the pensions of Croatian wartime wartime disableds from the Homeland War and wartime military disabled with 100% damage, the score is behind the disabled so that it looks like everyone else but 100% of those who will not be subject to this law. Although clearly in the 1st paragraph, it says that 5,000 borders will be further reduced by each with 10%. The same way we compare these victims of the Homeland War with the miners from Tuljek, the Labin Cup, I don't think it has anything to do with it, and we can't possibly be in the same category of people because we absolutely don't come from the same ministries. We are guardians of certain ministries and club HDZ simply doesn't understand why the ministry that cares and cares about why it allows for the 8th time burden of crisis, recession, but this time also incompetence to be burdened by Croatian defenders. Croatian defenders made clear yesterday, and above all I want this group that could have been a couple to Mrs. Ned Balog and her deputy, as well as the gentleman who, as of the defence population today, appeared at the gallery and followed this debate, I believe that the widows of the Homeland War and the victims follow this and the only way they can, which is on MAX TV if they have it. I believe he will understand that this is not a demagogy and we are not selling to anyone demagogy. We are aware that once we can agree, although we reluctantly agreed, to suffer the burden of crisis and recession, but we can't go twice five times, we can't agree eight times, and we can't allow eight times in the same category of people to use the same formula. We can't pay twice for Croatia's state and blood and money. We can't let that happen, and we'd never let that happen again, even though HDZ is in power right now, be sure not to speak any different tone than the same, even if it came out of the party. Unlike all those who are, and I'm going to say it and use it this time because of a club of MPs in an individual debate, I'm going to show you other documents that talk about what demagogy is about. In fact, the HDZ club must clearly say that 365,000 jobs are now lost, 25,000 crafts, that the GDP is that the unemployment rate is 30 percent, that the absolute investment cycle has been stopped, that all of those opportunities are investors, development of craftsmanship, entrepreneurship that you have been surrounded by doctors, on medical staff, to nurses that these 303 million kunas that are foreseen by the savings of all those who are under special regulations will not certainly be the ones to help solve the crisis. I'm sure leading policy can't make up for everything that's lost. Unemployment is such a terrible item that fills the pension fund and certainly if it is not there, we are aware that there cannot be enough money in the position of pensions for all in Croatia and neither can Croatian defenders. But why are we putting our loads on the victims' population twice the same rate? It's a question of all the questions. Why didn't we say yes in solidarity? They paid theirs. We go to everyone else. If our ministers are incompetent, let's go down half their salary because they haven't raised GDP since they were two years old, they haven't stopped the growth of unemployment, they haven't achieved industrial production, they haven't raised their growth rate, they haven't taken any steps to contribute to Croatia's charging of the state register. And therefore clearly it must be said that Croatian defenders are not to blame for what is happening to them. Only if you think as we could hear that Croatian defenders are chauvinists, barbarians and illiterate, so because of turning their backs, you punish them with 10%, then you clearly have to say so. We need to make it clear that we are punishing you and we will never forgive you for what you've done. But we only did what was our civic duty, we only did what we did as citizens of the Republic of Croatia that we defended, freed, and fought with honor for the Homeland of Croatia, regretting our lives and parts of the body, neither the effort nor the sweat nor the blood nor the thought of any material receipts. Most Croatian defenders still work today. Three hundred and thirty thousand were employed, unemployed over 30,000, although there were 26 thousand two years ago. And those who retired 70 and some thousand of those 57,000 people with disabilities from the Homeland War and 47 will be covered by this law, speak clearly both yesterday and today and tomorrow. We're not the ones who'll be hoarding the state budget because the current government can't manage the state. The Croatian Democratic Community club clearly rejects such a proposal that has no basis for it to stabilise the state budget and that it would be such a law, it is possible to put a state budget within the frameworks that have been broken into 12 ministries. In 12 ministries, excessive spending, irrational spending has been exceeded and fiscal law has been wronged. So I think that the very procurement of new cars and new smartphones is smart, because of course they need smart phones, which should be clearly said about the fact that there are no measures or borders, but Croatian defenders are the subject of which we will argue because we have always argued. It was never very clear who always undermined it and made it possible for Croatian defenders to be the first to be penalized by those who don't understand them, who don't appreciate them, who call them all sorts of ugly names and who certainly never wanted that population to be the most common one, who will be recognized in Croatia, who will be provided and who will not always be mentioned in a negative context. The negative context has also been through a series of discussions so far on both the register and the amendments and the amendments to the current amendments to the Social Care Act as well as the amendments to the Law on Croatian Defences, where this minimum amount of supplies is being received to the Ministry of Social Care and will certainly be inaccessible to most of them. If that's punishment, then you have to make it clear why you're punishing us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62936	We're moving on to replicas. First responds Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Djakic, Croatia has entered into excessive deficit measures and to translate it into folk language because of the government's failure to implement reforms, due to the failure to create an entrepreneurial climate Croatia has reached a deficit of 17,5 billion kuna. Will 305 million kuna save Croatia? He won't. You see, a colleague, Djakic, used to be 2% of the taxpayers. Sometimes when a solution was made to reduce defence pensions I will publicly confirm here you have been fighting until the last minute that this does not happen but a decision has been made on the reduction and some other grounds. The defenders weren't alone, the defenders were part of a whole cycle where the receipts were reduced. But this law is what it is and the debate on behalf of the SDP Club has shown all the despair of this government. And the question is that next year it will take, we no longer have the budget, after this publication by the European Commission Croatia has no budget so we will have to change it. And the question is who's gonna be in the second, third or fourth month on the cutting list. No more harrases, this is a great, super hack except the defenders aren't heaven but poor people who went out of patriotism to do something and today someone's taking revenge on them for some moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62938	... So be it, but get back to me on time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Josip Djakic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62939	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, it's clear that all trends are negative. It is clear that these are not the defenders because 460 defence cooperatives work and attract and pay taxes and are stimulated by the Croatian state but cannot patch up all the holes it leaks to because of incompetence. I can't patch up all the holes to which it doesn't react in time, I can't turn waste and haughtiness, ignorance and intolerance into positive. No positive trends can come from themselves, they should be built and worked. And for two years, it showed that there were no positive trends, two years it showed that we were going into the abyss. And now you're saying that the budget should be changed tomorrow, given that the parameters are set. Who now? Is it 10% again? Do you have half? The government didn't pass the exam and the government has to take the full salary first because they haven't earned it. For two years, they worked without effect and had no effect, so they had to take down their entire salary first, work for 6 months free to make up for it if they knew and if they didn't know they had to resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62940	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62941	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So first of all, this replica is caused by the mention of the Tuljak miners by his colleagues, Djakic, which is why they are among those who are excluded. Well, first of all, because pensions, pensions made by these miners are extremely small, far smaller than the ones we're talking about here right now. And you say the miners can't compare themselves to the defenders, they can't, they're different terms. There were different reasons why someone went to defend Croatia from why someone went to mining. But to say that the Tupac miners are in any way privileged it's ridiculous. Anyone who comes from Istria knows the conditions under which the weeds lived and so I ask you not to mention them in that way and in those circumstances. Now you're saying why defenders have to be punished first. The defenses aren't the first to be punished. The first, unfortunately, were hit by those who worked in private businesses who began to lose their jobs due to rationalization. After that, through the measure mentioned by Honorable counterpart Shuker, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia came, first those with a salary of 3000 and those with salaries of more than 6,000 kuna because they needed to raise funds. Now we have to cut and yes, you're right when you say that this measure of what we said 300 million kuna won't be enough and it won't save the budget. He won't. This is just one of the measures we have to take to save the budget. And why, because sometimes you weren't doing what you were supposed to do, and that was in the '90s when instead of being 30 or 40-year-old defenders, you said you couldn't work and you had to retire then we were supposed to work with them, we were supposed to let them work, we were supposed to help them, and you didn't say anything, here's 5,000 kuna, go home. Today we eat what we cooked up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62942	Thank you. Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62943	Thank you very much. You know, I don't think you understand me very well, as well as many times that you don't understand what you're in charge of and what you're trained to do. So the context of miners absolutely shouldn't have been, they're not privileged, they don't have said 5000 kuna and they shouldn't have been in this law at all and that's the whole thing I wanted to say about why they're being held or Mr. Stazic or I don't know who compares them to the defenders. They absolutely shouldn't have been in this law. They are not privileged and they have on special terms their pensions, but they are not so large that they will be penalized in this way and you did not understand why I, sensitivity to Croatian defenders, is one that cannot be compared to the Tuljek miners. I'm sure you realize now what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62944	Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62945	You tell counterpart Djakic that ministers should take half their salary until GDP begins to grow. To her colleague Djakic, if this principle were applied you from the state budget for the rest of your life should not receive a lip because in 2003 you took over the state when GDP was 6.5% in plus, and you handed it over in 2011 with 6% minus. Well, that's if you were calculated no more. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62946	Comrade Shuker, please. ... Josip Djakic, answer to the line. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62947	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Stazic, unlike you, I worked and earned my pension before I was a defender even before I joined the Parliament. I've got my job, I've got my pension payments, and I'm not afraid for my existence, regardless of your reductions. Yes, ministers should be deprived of their full salary or should resign. They didn't realize the programme and the progress plan, and in 2003 they left us 400,000 unemployed and now that number is growing by it and I don't know, I'm afraid I wouldn't want to, but I'm afraid by the end of the year or the beginning of the next month, it's going to be the same. As for GDP, at the time we were in 2011, growth was 0.8% but it was growth, it wasn't decline. I don't know what you're talking about today, and today the budget hole is just like that. The drop in GDP is 6%, which is now. What are you talking about? Well, yeah, we should self-penalize ourselves, we should admit incompetence and say or we're not capable, we go home or we'll work without pay, but we better not work without pay, we'll get worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62948	Comrades and colleagues, while we are already carrying out some figures, we are then expected to know exactly what we are talking about in Parliament. That's it. Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62949	Thank you. Comrade Djakic, you have just said that you have now said that you have achieved your pension not from the defense base but from your work because you have been in the Parliament for a long time. I'm older than you, I've graduated from college, I've mastered etc., I'm doing what normally happens when they start working, I've worked in schools, I've taught college. I'm in the Parliament's fifth term and you see I didn't... some people vote for SDP, see I didn't get a pension or a pension right. How's that? The difference is simple, you took a privileged pension, and I'm not my colleagues and there's a difference. ... Call her whatever you want. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you used that right to take what the law gave you, that's true, at a time when we suggested that this right be taken away, abolished by parliamentarians. During HDZ, you could be the only day in the Assembly, we have such examples, one single day and you have the right to retire. You can't today, normal thing, because SDP didn't allow it. When the SDP came to power in 2000, it reduced the salaries by 40% of parliamentary deputies, we abolished these "privileged" pensions, but that's what the people call them. So it's not clear to me now that you're sharing some kind of moral lesson here, and yet it seems to me that you've been thinking a little bit more about yourself. I'm not saying this as a defense attorney, it doesn't matter, it has to do with this problem we're talking about right now. And now you're talking about how the ministers need half their pay cut off, and maybe God should continue to take down the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62950	Thank you. Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62951	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You didn't understand me either. I didn't take a parliamentary pension, I didn't activate it. I'm retired as a Croatian military invalid in a special pension that I earned as an INA employee and especially because I was wounded twice. For my 15 holes, I got a certain disability, and I'm retired, and I put my pension in a state of rest, and I use my parliamentary salary, I don't use my pension. I didn't take advantage of this privilege of Parliament, and this if it's a privilege to be wounded, I'm honored. I'm honored to have survived, and it's an extraordinary pleasure. But you can't even call the privileged pensions that they gave their lives for Croatia. They are under special conditions and under special circumstances. Their deaths are certainly justified and the Croatian state must always take care of them and care for them. Every man without arms, leg, blind we have shown you in one book, one exhibition about how that loss looks just to never mention the privilege again. Privilege is not to be without arms, without legs, not without a mate, not without the son you sent to the army. It's not a privilege.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62952	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62953	Thank you very much. Coli Djakic, here is the basic prime minister today that there is no money and that must be saved on Croatian defenders. In 2011, we had the revenues of 107 billion and the expenses of 122 billion. Salaries paid more than today, all the allowances were paid, all the benefits were paid, all the benefits were paid, everything that had to be paid out of the budget on that basis was paid. 2014 budget revenue side 113 billion, expenditure side 130 billion. So, with 6 billion more on the income side, we're still saying we don't have any money. This is one story that obviously lasts for a full 2 months where we are constantly suggesting the failure of 2014 where the country's main recipient and everything that needs to happen in the country should be all those who have to give up in order for the state to collect more revenue than in 2011 when it could do more with less. And we're told it's a successful government. As for the quote. When there were 305,000 unemployed in 2010, I quote to an esteemed SDP gentleman, over 300,000 people are out of a job. On a daily basis 500 people are out of work, the government is sinking deeper and deeper. The only way out is early elections. A second quote. Reforms are carried out with a fig in their pocket. We're so successful that our health care is collapsed, there's no oncology medication, we're looking for early elections. And a third. While ministers laugh every day without a job, there are 580 people left. A growing deficit, a public debt, we're looking for early elections. And he says at the end of fellow Stazic, "Pietl's corn, the circus ends." Unfortunately, we see that this circus obviously continues in a different form, and Croatian citizens can simply be appalled by the way the Vice-President of the Assembly approach the issue of Croatian defenders after such discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62954	Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62955	Thank you very much, fellow Boric. So you've all said exactly and absolutely the figures deny any possibility that there's justification in today's budget to patch up with defense pensions what's been missed. The failures made will last long term. We are also aware of what is repeated and put on us both as strangers and as individuals, and we condemn it and we will never be ashamed that we were part of sanctioning anyone who pulled into the state register. However, today, when again for who knows which times, I said eight times this would be and it would be eight times for Croatian defenders to retire and to be taken from their pensions, from the deceased people and their families and wives and some children, not their own but some children and those ten percent. So they're being taken away from existence and they want to create a real social category of them. Because of the loans they have paying off apartments because they didn't get them for free, they're only downgraded rates for the percentage of disability, because of the standard of living that went and the baskets that they're going to survive and live, and I really think that the only thing they have in that SDP and coalition government is that they want the whole state on the social side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62956	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62957	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Djakic, I understand that these statements and colleagues of Stazic have upset you as a defender. But I'm sure they've upset all Croatian patriots too because it's very hard not to respond to a debate like this that I'm not going to tell you about because they'd call me different names. You know it's not just the Croatian defenders thorn in the eye of this government. The thorn in this government's eye is I'd say intellectuals, so it's academics, it's teachers, it's teachers, it's doctors. Because somehow that Croatian intellectualism wouldn't be good if it spread, it wouldn't be good to hear their voice. Well, you should humiliate them, of course, yes. And when you talked about defenders and apartments, they had loans for apartments because unfortunately they weren't Partisans, and that was the leadership of communists who live in apartments in the city center of Zagreb and other cities and are now struggling hard to stay in those apartments regardless of the Property Return Act. How do you solve that? How come nobody's talking about it? Why didn't he give an apartment to any of the Croatian generals and defenders? For this one. There'd be storms and storms. There's no sentiment for that. The defense kids when they had that condition under the same conditions but the advantage of enrolling in school, so here we had a terrible debate on the left. Well, that's embarrassing. And by the fourth generation, the children of Partisans went after the bad guy, they were in homes for the bad guy. Well, no one asked that. And you can't even talk about it anymore. Here's what I do when I talk about being called a nationalist. So this Jovanovic not that he should not be paid but should be replaced because he is exclusively looking for Ustashas in this Croatia. Nothing else works. There, that's just it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62958	My colleagues weren't exactly a replica, but good. We're used to such replicas already. Josip Djakic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62959	Well, colleagues of the twilight I can really be calm and tolerated, I can be normal in every opportunity while that population I represent and those friends I share an opinion with don't touch those sanctities. I'd say I spent a lot of time with them these days. I've been talking to them a lot these days. I've been exchanging opinions and seeing how they're looking at the situation these days. 28 state associations said no. No, we're not into it, and we're not gonna accept it. Please tell them in the House that they don't do it because they're going to insult us even more, they're going to humiliate us even more, and they're going to weaken us even more economically, given that they're touching our existence, and then we're going to be even stronger and more fiery. And it happened, the gathering at Mark's square yesterday clearly says these were just representatives of the Homeland War Associations, this wasn't the entire defense population. We didn't want to call them to spend a little of what they have left to survive, but if necessary, we'll show strength and unity and you'll see that the defenders will show you by Christmas how much longer this pensionation that you're spending on them is. I'm not threatening anyone, I'm just passing on what they think and what they're going to do. And your mockery of the minister speaks clearly about how well you think of them, just like fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62960	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62961	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Djakić, you made your threats yesterday at Mark's square. But your debate today on behalf of the club actually shows that you are taking exclusive rights and you wanted to show that you represent all the defenders in Croatia. But it's just a good sequel to you in HDZ because you've always done it. The defenders are your exclusive right, I guess, like some HDZ branch all these past 23 years. Look, I can't let you do this, and I will tell you from this pay phone that you can be ashamed of yourself for giving yourself the right to speak and deceive the public to speak for all the defenders, on behalf of my brother-in-law of the Croatian defender, on behalf of my relatives, on behalf of my friends of Croatian defenders, you didn't come forward here today and you don't have the right to do that. Like those who were in Vukovar, this crisis headquarters has no right to speak for all defenders because they are there only as individuals in the interests of their groups and HDZ have made it impossible for the state to honor all those killed in the Vukovar tragedy. And speaking of this law how that you didn't remember all the other categories that are also being reduced by this law of retirement. So you didn't remember members of the Homeland Army, or you didn't think of workers who were in the MUP and the MORH and made their pensions subject to special laws and are also reducing their pensions by this law. No, you're giving yourself the right to be an exclusive agent. You can't be that and I as a representative can say you can't be that, you're not that. And stop fooling the Croatian public that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62962	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62963	Yeah, it's true, I don't represent all the defenders. That's true. I wasn't elected by all the defenders. I had an election assembly last Saturday, 30 people didn't confirm me, but 130 did. That's my ID. In front of the victim, I'm sure I can speak in front of the disabled. This law concerns the victim, not all the defenders, not all 502,000 and something, because for 2000, the Defence Register grew. Madam Vice President, please, I didn't throw it away to anyone, I kept my order, and I ask you to warn Mrs. Sabol because she disturbed me in the debate. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62964	She's Mrs. Sobol, but from all the benches you yell when someone's talking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62965	So, fellow Members, I have the right to speak on behalf of 28 Homeland War Associations who attended yesterday with their presidencys here at Mark's Square. They gave me legitimacy, they supported me. And they were talking. The fact that your media you have put under control has not been conveyed to generals, nor Clem, nor the man who was from the Homeland Army who spoke there has not passed anyone but me that is what is worrying in Croatia that you have put all the media under control, that you speak unilaterally, that there is absolutely nothing that does not suit you Croatian television segment and the end of the story. You brought in the party chess mat everything, both the media and the state. I'm going to speak in this House of Commons because I'm elected representative in my constituency, I've been elected president of HRVI and I have support from all other associations that are on state level but I don't see your representatives and deputies on Mr. Sabu's War Veterans Committee saying that today I don't see even those who spoke to the defenders we won't touch the rights, and they spoke at the press conferences.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62966	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62967	Dear Mr. Djakic, I don't know if it's worth replicating on this subject, it's worth it, we often know how to replicate not on this subject but on some other topics because what you're doing, I'll call it pure manipulation. First of all, you can speak for the associations, but not for those whom the associations represent. You were here saying that in Parliament you were speaking against the defenders. I haven't heard a single speech pointed at a defense attorney in two years. Manipulation is against defenders, that's when it's manipulated. You pour oil on fire all the time, and you say it's the 8th. 6 you've spent so, every time the left government is, you're no more critical of the left government than I am, you're raising defenders and various headquarters. What happened in Vukovar is a very big inconvenience and discomfort that is causing Croatian citizens. And I talked to some of your colleagues from your club about it, we didn't agree, but we talked, I wanted to talk about it, but raise tensions, pour oil on fire, threaten that you'd be raising defenders by Christmas. What are you going to do about civil war? What do you want? First of all, no country is allowed to rattle with guns and to call for riots because someone has said before that the term is not to be used as a crawling coup. If you're going to say that more than once, it will be because this is how if you're a defender then you love your country, they don't even represent all the citizens of the Republic but they rule on their behalf, so this is your authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62968	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62969	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I didn't mean it because I really don't have anyone to answer to but I have to say who you represent? 0 The citizens told you their opinion in Zagreb. You're the demagogue of a couple of excellences you don't have. The greatest demagogue in this House is you. You're a specialist for everything and what it is and what it isn't. You who showed your true face when you point your fingers at HRT from your position, you will share someone's lessons. Well, I think that's groundless. I was chosen three times in this Croatian Assembly and three times in HVIDRA, remember, three times and in one body this most Croatian body and in Croatian wartime military disabled, chose. We didn't co-opt not with 1.8 votes or 0.8 to be someone's representative. You should be ashamed at all of what you're talking about all the topics because you're lying about it a lot of times.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62970	A colleague, Djakic. So let's show some tolerance for each other. Peter Baranovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62971	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At the beginning of my replica, I must give you a compliment because it is rare that my colleague Vuksic and I fully agree, these are very rare occasions in this House. When I dressed in the uniform of the National Guard Assembly in '91, I was immensely proud, when I received my first act as a young man and then I was proud and today I am proud that my generation went to war dreaming of a decent, polite country, a country of responsible and moral people, especially responsible and moral politicians. I listened to you on the radio yesterday, I listened to the words you were saying, and the first thought that went through my head is possible that someone who is an officer of the Croatian Army could speak like this. I listened to you today in the Parliament and I had the same thought again. Is it possible for an officer of the Croatian army to speak in this manner in the Croatian National Assembly to lie in this way, manipulate and benefit those who gave the most for this country, who fought for its stability, peace and freedom, the functioning of the rule of law peace and prosperity. Who gives you the right to speak for all Croatian defenders? Where did you get that salary? Where did Mr. Djakic come from? When I entered the Croatian Parliament I was also proud, I thought it was a crown, to enter into the ranks of those people who were top and vertical of Croatian societies. Today, by sharing this assembly with you, Mr. Djakic, I am ashamed to be a parliamentary representative. This shame of yours intonation of your speech and the replica of your colleagues is a disgrace to Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62972	Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62973	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You're the only one who's running away. Probably that's how you ran away in the Homeland War. Namely, if someone's lying, then it's you, a liar couple of excellence in continuity. [[Intruder: Silence.]] This is what happens from these lines constantly both on figures and on reality in this Croatian Assembly if lies come, they come from your mouth. I have honestly and honestly always represented the interests of Croatian defenders, the disabled of the Homeland War, and I will highlight all those who give me the opportunity and consent, and have shown them 1,200 representatives of associations from all over Croatia yesterday with their presidencies who have come and supported me in an effort to put this law outside the debate. Yes, such up - to - date humiliations as counterpart Baranovic directed and then fled are surely only for his honor. He never set foot for this pay phone if he hadn't turned his thesis around and lied about the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62974	Our colleagues and colleagues are discussing the Law on the reduction of the pensions of certain, i.e. made according to specific regulations in the pension system. We started the debate one not good way. ... So who started and who joined but I call you, we discuss the law and let's not talk about Croatian defenders in such a way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of HNS representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62975	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law we pass concerns 10 categories of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If all those who are considered political officials are cumulatively classified in one category, then it is 10 categories of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian defenders are only one of those categories, probably the most politically interesting, probably the most numerous, but still only one of the categories concerned by this law when it comes to those who are touched by this law in a narrow sense. In a broader sense, this law is touched by every citizen of the Republic of Croatia because this law tries to consolidate the budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is a long-term condition, stability, sustainability of public functions and of course everything that citizens expect from the state. So, this law touches all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And this is one of the few laws that has as much financial weight in it as it does. By this law in 2014 it is intended to save 303 million kuna. One small thing about 16 billion deficits that the Republic of Croatia has but still 300 million kuna. And in the next year 326 million kuna and about that figure as just before in the law that we talked about about 16 billion kunas that we should give from the budget instead of in education, instead of in development, in encouraging investment we give to pensions, there was no talking about that number here. And as long as we talk about austerity measures and then when it comes to what measures they are, then the issue of economic policy opens up. And when the issue of economic policy opens, then it is about budget deficits and the need for savings. And it is absolutely not a debate that can lead us to any solution either in terms of economic policy or in terms of savings. This law therefore has the ambition to reduce the costs of the state budget defacto, not the pension system, because that is the surplus that probably goes from the budget and not from the pension system, even though these two systems are unfortunately not separate and I agree that they should be separated. And when we ask ourselves, and we know that the pension system is, in fact, the most difficult in terms of the possibility of leaving the Republic of Croatia from the excessive deficit and from all these measures that have been talked about here, and it will certainly be because these days we are entering this treatment of the excessive deficit, then the pension system is the one that we parliamentary representatives think of first, probably also citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and especially those who know more about it. And if it were to be saved in that system, who would it be? What category of citizens would be under the conditions of an average pension of 2200 kuna, which is 38% of the average salary. In this last year, it increased by 1% not because it was actually growing but because it had actually fallen and paid and partly retired. Only the pay was more real, so they got close from 37 to 38%. And who should we take those 10% pensions off to? These people who have 2200 kuna salaries with 40 years of work experience? Is that a solution? If that's the answer then say so. Guess the million and 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia and protect the categories that you think should be protected and have a pension of more than 5,000 kuna. A highly educated teacher, a 40-year-old teacher in the Republic of Croatia, with 40 years of training has a pension of about 2.5 thousand kuna. These groups we're talking about, groups of citizens and after reducing this pension by 10% will remain over 5 thousand kuna, will have twice as many pensions as a man of higher education who raised our children, taught them 40 years fairly in the conditions in which it was. And that's the situation. And of course we can have a debate about defenders, we've been taking them here for tens of them for the last 20 years. We probably never properly guided them, we couldn’t face each other, we didn’t know how to look, and we didn’t even know how to beat or fight in any way. But to have a debate on defenders, on all issues of war, on the moral bases behind it, on messages, on symbolism, on this issue, I don't think it's the best way to treat a question, including this law. By the way, tell me about the war, my experience of real warriors speaks very little. I've never met a real warrior who boasted about being in a war. The best, including those who have suffered badly, will most often remain silent about the war. That should be spoken of, but there should be a time when it is spoken of, and then the right questions should be addressed with all the political differences and all the conflicts that exist in this complex of issues, and not every occasion conveniently raise this issue. This law therefore reduces the pensions that were reduced in 2010, from which Croatian defenders were excluded, by 10% again. I would refer to one special category, but only on the one hand and only on a partial basis, I will not dedicate this whole exposure, a pension that is under special conditions, and do not fall under conditions that would be difficult to work or damage bodies such as HRVI, so these are in some way particularly privileged pensions. They are reduced by this law by 10% as well as everyone else, for the fourth time in the last 4-5 years, and perhaps you should consider that these pensions are actually now approaching those pensions that people have, so these are more pensions, I'm not talking about defenders or Croatians, they're approaching their real pensions on the basis of the principle of reciprocity. I would really like to think that this issue should finally be closed to the public and that these pensions should actually be de facto and completely abolished and there are no preferential pensions. And the HAZU position with relatively high pensions and an allowance which, of course, now goes beyond the pensions of others so far, conditionally speaking, is the same issue. It is the same group with very high basic pensions, people who can work longer than others do, have a special addition to the amount of accounting base, and now we are reducing only that amount, now we are not reducing the full pension, again it is a matter of justice and also of austerity and contribution measures and those categories of austerity measures in the conditions in which the state is presently. In this respect, of course, it should be said that the reduction of pensions under this law is not permanent. It concerns only periods until exit from recession, which means that after three consecutive three months of growth of 2% of GDP and under the conditions of deficits below 3% of GDP, these conditions, hence the reduction of pension, are therefore a temporary measure, there was also no talk here. Therefore, fully understanding what Minister Mrsic's proposal, i.e. the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, wanted with this law, expecting us to focus more on when we will get to these conditions when we will be able to abolish this law, which means that we will have GDP growth in three quarters consecutively greater than 2% and a deficit of less than 3% of GDP in that period, this should be devoted. If we conduct political debates and focus not on the measure of the law but on the partial interests of groups that have politically supported us or whose political speakers we are then we will wait longer for this time in which we will be able to abolish this law and all other restrictions that we have had to introduce in the last few years, noting, of course, that in 2010, the first law of this kind was introduced by the government that was then led by HDZ. So, understanding the applicant's intensities, the HNS Representatives' Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62976	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62977	... a colleague in the introduction that this bill touched every citizen in the Republic of Croatia. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Of course, you also thought of these, especially these privileged ones that you later elaborated, or under special conditions. Now we need to quote, so I'm not going to quote some of these to God-rated right and center-to-right, some of the left-wing newspapers, some of the newspapers, a list of political prisoners who are coming out today. And in 2001, you'll find what a political prisoner writes, what political prisoners write about each other, so I'll try around, I don't have this political prisoner here, but you can get on CD, it's all published, so who doesn't have old copies. Those who were tried after '45. Until '48. There was a possible punishment between 15 and 20 years, so 16 and 18 years old. When the Law on Political Prisoners was passed, many agreed to exercise their rights, and so did their pension, but one was successful, and the few were able to escape from the prison then... but one was successful and fled to Australia. As soon as he heard, it was written in that political prisoner and returned to achieve that right and pension, and it was only a few months, and was tried for 16 years, and all six or seven months served and charged 16 years. I beg you, sir, here by replicating you, I want you to hear this and Mr. Minister and to make and revise these pensions of political prisoners who have made such pensions only on the word without attaching confirmation of the prison sentence. And when it was the political prisoners who did time to hear the report, this one escaped, untraceablely disappeared and returned to Australia again. And here's what I'd like to make sure of.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62978	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62979	Well, colleagues, Ingrid, I generally support your position to take in all the important public affairs to carry out the review. But unfortunately, our experience with the audits is not specific not only when it comes to the revision of Croatian military disabled. There were two audits – one '97. led by HDZ, which was unsuccessful. The second partial, even more partial since the first 2001, the second year also failed. That's when I came out with the view that I'm actually afraid that the rivers are gone in that sense. And as time goes away, it's going to be less and less needs, and more and more, in fact, probably, insignificant political benefits from any kind of audit. This is probably about the audits you're talking about, but here's the minister heard it, so if he thinks it's an opportunistic, useful political and financial and any other and moral audit that you're talking about, I, of course, don't mind the revisions and the revision should lead to any legal situation being established in any area we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62980	A colleague named Tink Miles, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62981	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In your speech, you touched the pensioners, so people who today are the largest in the population living from two to three thousand kunas. Well, of course no one even mentions it's a category, that it's a population that's supposed to bear the burden of the crisis. You also talked about people, let's say the professors who raised our children and I don't know other groups of society who today for a full-time job, 35, 40 years have two, three, four thousand kuna salaries, or pension, pardon. However, we forget one thing that a pension that most people who will experience a reduction in this bill is not a pension in the classical literal sense of the word. So it's a pension that a large number of people got by the most difficult criteria, so after I'm killed, it's a murder that serves them just for everyday purposes, for everyday life, for care, for taking care of the very children that these teachers have trained, who have helped to become real people. So we can't talk about pensions in the literal sense of the word that man deserves after 40 years and what good it is if God gives him health for a better, easier life in old age, but I'm talking about something completely different about criteria and circumstances that I wouldn't really wish for anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62982	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62983	Thank you very much, dear fellow Miles, for allowing me to say what I intended to say in the debate, which I did not, and that is to exempt with this law special groups especially... Citizens, according to an assessment of the applicants I agree with, among them 100 percent of Croatian wartime wartime people and families of the dead Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, according to these special groups which are indeed the most severely endangered this law has sensitivity and this should be stressed, this dimension should be highlighted. As far as the burden of the crisis is concerned, we slowly come to every burden, every expense we put into the law that someone pays for it. There was a situation where leaders and citizens felt like that money was coming from somewhere, so it was just someone's will whether they would give it or not. And that's how political elites treated that public money. Today, it slowly matures awareness among political leaders, as well as citizens, that every penny you give someone you have to take or that someone has to earn it. So if we're trying to solve this situation, we can't solve it by making it fall out of something like 16 billion kuna, but we have to either make money or we have to take it from someone. And I am glad that, if I am right, that money is public money, and it does not fall from the sky that this consciousness slowly penetrates both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62984	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62985	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I would agree with you if you were right, but you are wrong, Radoš, because from a group of 15 of those who are treated as privileged pensions, only three groups are those who have over 5,000 kuna, of those 15 who are treated as privileged pensions, only three groups that cross the average of 5,000 kuna. 5,000 kunas cross members of the former Yugoslav, and not them, they have 3 and something. But they are representatives in the Croatian Parliament, members of the government, judges of the Constitutional Court and the chief state auditor 8870 is their average. Furthermore, the average Croatian defenders from the Homeland War 5366 is the average pension and 7807 have workers, have regular members of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Here are three groups covered by the average salary, per average pension. That Croatian victims of the Homeland War were excluded as you said, they were not killed. Not even the widows of the dead were excluded by this law. This law does not show which population and how many are the exact ones that will be reduced by 10%. And it can't possibly be your word that you'd be glad that the parameters are different, but you're in a coalition government that hasn't achieved the results, so you should vote and seek and insist that ministers who have spent too much and made a hole in the state budget or a 16-billion deficit to cut their wages or to suspend their incomes. And that indicators in filling the state budget, in employment growth, in GDP growth, in industrial production growth, and in everything else, show that they get paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62986	Thank you. Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62987	Col. Djakic again for the truth, so these three groups you're talking about their average pension in those groups is over 5,000 kuna. But I suppose that in each of these groups, of these 10, or conditionally said 15 groups, there are individual members of these groups who have more than 5000 kuna and are subject to that law because the law does not concern the average pension of a group but concerns each individual who belongs to that group. And that's the principle of justice. So, all those who belong to both HRVI and HAZU, HAZU is unlikely... But these are also members of the Department of Defense, military personnel, they're police officers, they're judicial officers, all of them who have over 5,000 kunas will unfortunately be touched by this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those who have a pension of less than 5,000 kuna will not be. As for this, if they're not protected, that's what my colleague Milas is telling me from the bench, even if I'm not replicating him right now, I don't know what you're reading. For the purposes of Article 4a of the Law, the reduction of pensions under Article 3a of this Act shall not be subject to this Act. The 100% HRVIs and families of the dead Croatian defenders are mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62988	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62989	In your discussion, you mentioned the need to discuss the measure of things, not the partial interests, and then later you added that you should finally know if someone is given that someone else should be taken. The problem, however, is that you did not insist that this whole debate is based on facts but that some data is then used that simply are not what they should be. So you talked about small pensions, but you didn't say that within this pension quota there are categories that receive pensions based on solidarity because they didn't pay into Croatian pension funds. These are officers, these are JNA officers, members of federal institutions and services, certain categories of farmers who did not pay, those are the rebel Serbs who were recognised as a working internship, regardless of which they did not pay into Croatian funds and then we get the data and only 12% of the pensioners worked full-time. And let's just say there's not even 140,000 of those pensioners who worked abroad, so that's probably a different percentage. So without complete data, we simply can't discuss the measure of things. And when we agreed that every bill had an analysis of the situation, you refused and did not allow it to enter the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Also at the very least when it comes to 35 thousand pensioners to whom this would apply, it is not said and given to which categories it refers. Therefore, it simply takes one factography to discuss the measure of things, and we simply cannot get to that factography. On the other hand, it is quite inappropriate to speak those who are members of the academy or professors who are receiving pensions as they are receiving because they have done 40 years of work, so he says that now we are not taking down their entire pension but only on this information for HAZU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62990	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62991	Comrade Tudjman I fully agree with you, I have often advocated that our laws and our legal texts have a better basis and analysis. The weakest part of our laws is most often the one talking about it. So no simulations, simulations are very complicated but the cost simulation would probably be easier. However, our ministries are and this is the practice in which our ministries have been functioning for the last 23 years, I don't know how it was before I didn't participate in this job, they just haven't adopted that technology. And now to burden this government without having prepared the infrastructure so that it could act that way is a great burden. And that's why, not me, but that's why the proposal was rejected. But I'm an advocate of it, and I will always support you, and I'd like you to support me, too, even when you're in a position to defend the government that I'm in today. As far as JNA is concerned, these rules were passed after the war, probably even at the time of the war, and those pension rules by former JNA members brought the HDZ government probably with some reasons. So these reasons were probably in the foundations of a policy that was led, not in a negative sense, because it was probably an optimum of some attitudes, thinking and this system of pensions of former JNA members did not generally experience a more serious audit since the time it was placed there in the early 1990s, and set it up again by the HDZ Government. And as far as HAZU is concerned, in the end, the only preferential pensions that are not related to working conditions, the benefited internship and disability are HAZU pensions, the only pensions left. So if it's that much sodium according to these pensions, let's cancel those pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62992	Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62993	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Radoš, I could actually agree with the good part of your exposure, especially the way you think about it, right? I also agree with the fact that when you said it was good that those who have 2,000 kuna will not suffer from this burden of crisis etc. but I'll just remind you that when a decision was made on a crisis tax of 2 and 4% that 800 thousand pensioners of a million and 100 as many as there were in the Republic of Croatia were outside that category, you were, however, not personally, but the party from which you came and the coalition from which you spoke of these pensions as about the robbery, harrass, etc. I will also remind you that the burden of the crisis is well paid by those who have 2,000 kuna pensions through an increase in VAT not by 2% but by 8, something percent, through an increase in excise duties through an increase in energy prices and in other ways. I also wish I could share your optimism when you say that this is not a permanent reduction in pensions, that macroeconomic indicators and estimates don't exactly say the opposite that for a long time this law will probably be in force because I don't believe it might be economic growth, but it's hard with this deficit of 17 billion that we're going to be below 3% of the government budget deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62994	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62995	Ivić's pension, which is larger than 5 thousand kuna, is not really a pension that makes a man a rich man. And with that pension, you can't live well especially if someone doesn't take on a variety of credit obligations that most people are expecting will be their permanent income. But what you're saying about the permanent deterioration of these people's living conditions, it's especially about those people who have 2,200 kuna pensions. So they're not 3 times or 4 times in 5 years they're almost daily suffering a drop in living standards, and with 2,200 kuna again maybe some credit is at the very edge of existence and they're harder to endure this continuing decline in living standards. Of course, it's not good to go into these measures at all, regardless of the history of making such solutions and their sustainability, but if it has to be done, and I think it has to be done because of the difficulties of the budget, then it's logical that you go to that group that has more pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62996	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62997	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I haven't seen you since the laptop here with an assistant and colleagues and fellow MPs. I've sharpened my power. Namely, he said a very good line to his colleague, Rados, in response to the replica. If he already says we have to cut, then we can't cut those who have 2,000 and 2,200 kuna. I ask the question, how would it be nice if the average pension in the Republic of Croatia was 5,500 kuna and a minimum of 3 thousand. Is this the goal of our work of political action and the goal of political elites in Croatia? Let's ask ourselves that. Furthermore, as it is possible to avoid such unpopular measures, I will not talk about what they have said here, why not popular first of all because of defenders and disabled Homeland War than anything else. Here is today the envelope was returned from Brussels or I don't know what it would be called, a book of white, which the 330-page Regional Development Strategy of Mr. Jakovina's Minister of Agriculture accompanied by 327-page remarks. And then he says we won't cut the ministers' wages, because he treats his ministry so irresponsiblely and his job. If I were a surgeon like that, and I had dead playads behind me, it'd be questionable, or I'd end up being Dr. It's a shimic. And nobody's asking a question here. Djuro Djakovic, our company, is being famous and its director is acting on the principle of that Serbian poet, Radičević Branka, born in Slavonski Brod btw. A song that starts "A lot of wanted, a lot of started," and he hasn't done anything in two years. That's how the song "Wishful" started. So he's 100 programs, and none of them have come true in two years, and it's important that a certain person, you want me to say the name, pays a regular 35 thousand kuna a month, the lady's name is the company has a Business Clinic so called Business Clinic, the owner's last name is like our very vice president of the Parliament here. Railway, we've now decided to put 450 million in fuel from excise duties. And what's going on? HZ Cargo in bankruptcy, the Romanian who are Montenegrins because they said we too have our thieves persistently rope around our Cargo and Minister Doncic insists that he must buy Cargo. They bought a track that doesn't lead anywhere, and there's no Dioki there or more INAs bought a track. They're in charge, they're in charge, they're out of business, they're out of business. The beam in which 800 million kunas were invested this government has taken into bankruptcy, these governments not HDZs. We buy our trams through Swiss companies, and here they are produced because the three mengupas have a Swiss company for importing Croatian trams. I'll tell you after Shuker who they are. What's going on here in this government, except you're going to lunch every day on a card at the TAC restaurant on the Vrhovac. What else does the government of this country do in two years, except impose and do a tax bite and every other bite...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62998	My colleague Grubisic, about the law, about the law. If you want to talk about the government then put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u62999	This is the introductory part where I'm now saying that it could behave differently, work differently, and then there wouldn't be this measure. That's what I'm talking about. Do you want me to tell you what's going on in this country, how almost planically the economic operators in this country who could be the product and could be the production capacities of this country that would then, in which workers would work. Port of Rijeka, traffic drop by 26%, Port of Ploče 40% traffic drop. That's the result of this government. Instead of being with his new owner, therefore, the bearer of all this, HZ-Cargo speaks because he has no donations from the state. Who is the director of HZ-Infrastructure and whose godfather is he? People who don't know much about the railroad or Cargo are being set up. That's what you do. And the railway is by decision of the European Parliament and the European Commission should now follow the roads that we have quite built to actually cross, i.e. become the main driver of almost the Croatian economy. That's what the minister said, and now the railroads are coming in, and now there's a train fever, not a gold fever, but a railroad fever, and now they're incinerating, and that's where all our economically significant subjects get hurt. But there's more to it, and I won't be the one who's still out there, and there'll be time for that, and there'll be a job for Bajic. So, the solidarity we talked about and at that point before, it seems to treat this replica of Mr. Tudjman first and foremost to those who did not invest in pension funds, which are just officers and not to say so literally because they were never officers, they were not, in particular, JNA officers, except for some exceptions and those who worked in federal bodies. The Federal Executive Council and the Yugoslav Assembly, etc. They paid federal pension insurance, not Croatian. So, I think we could have implemented such measures that should not have come to this. So take the gentlemen of your socialist Francois Hollande, which was done by Francois Hollande when he came to power, shut down all the protocol vehicles and sold them at auction. That's how he got the money to build infrastructure in certain suburbs. All state-owned companies were cut off by official vehicles, earned 600, sorry, now I'm going to speak further, so he increased the tax to all families that are moving with 5m euros in income. He increased the tax, but to those who make 5 million euros. I introduced reliefs to the so-called. A bonus of culture, he abolished government and state magazines, newspapers, foundations, publishing houses and set them up as cooperatives. To the banks that invest domestic production, the domestic economy gives tax reliefs, and to banks that deal exclusively with cash transactions has increased the profit tax. What did Mr. Orban do in neighbouring Hungary? Even more drastic measures. Both this budget and this government work are like a camel, a little water in this sense, they do not take anything, they let us say water flows down the meadows in Serbia, and I guess they are waiting for the end of the mandate, but I am afraid that such measures as this or the proposal for a law called amending and supplementing the Law on the reduction of pensions set out or achieved under a special regulation on pension insurance, with a final draft of the law plus all these measures that we have adopted both these days and these two years lead to great dissatisfaction. It's already a huge dissatisfaction, depression, apathy, dissatisfaction. Only this government has succeeded, it is to divide the Croatian people. Split it in a world-wide, ideological field, and starting with this referendum, from Cyrillic, from Vukovar and claiming that Cyrillic is a Croatian letter I mean it's really not a 600-year-old Croatian letter, if we're going to be right, but let's sometimes be Bosnian, Bosnian was called not Cyrillic, so this letter that has coal and so on, we know everything, and we don't need to lecture on the verb or Cyrillic or Latina. So, on Module 4, we're all stuck together here, in that educational, Cyrillic, family and marriage, and now we're producing a new one, and here's a man who started a war on the Vatican and the Croatian government, and now we're all going to be divided and we're going to be divided who's in favor of the Vatican deal, who's against it. Nothing else. These are the results, the sad results that aren't actually there. How much money they have withdrawn from Europe, 6 million euros more than we have paid or applied. This is the result that he said clearly and loudly and Deputy Prime Minister Grcic, 6m euros. Is that a success? The best citizens know. When you go to Radic's street in our Croatian Parliament, then you can see nicely from two beggars, from three squares of Jelačić's square to the rocky ones, to the stone door, to the stairs, and from that St. The yurrays that stab with a spear have four sitting. But those who drive in cars, who probably forgot to drive because they are, I guess, already rudimentary remnants of ability. They don't see it. They don't see them. Not only do they not see, see, or know how citizens actually live, they don't move among them. And that's why I mentioned, unfortunately, here's this restaurant and a card, etc. So you can't even see the ones I was talking about. Despite such a situation in the country, someone will now say that I am this diabolical or bad 8,000 smartphones. Well, Đura Djakovic said that every cleaning lady will get a smartphone. So what the hell do they need smartphones, now tell me. And let alone the government would get 8,000 pieces. About Toyotas, about cars to the government, about every ministry, about overcrowded ministries, about inefficient public administration. Are we going to list here how many agencies there are in the Republic of Croatia, how many agency directors there are, how many employees there are in certain ministries. For two or three times bigger than in Finland, Norway or any other country or Slovenia. Now I won't speak names on purpose, and I can tell you if you want, starting with the Ministry of Agriculture and beyond. That's where we look for savings, and then we won't have to pass these laws. And that those who are in public enterprises to do what is right for Croatian workers, not how to deceive Croatian people, but actually work to ensure their best future and existence. It was the same before, same thing. Nothing is better, neither are these than the HDZ government. As rights and pensions in the 2014 Budget were cut out to defenders and disabled persons, an item was raised for the Government's Office by 22%. Is that an example to our people? 22% The government's office has more money for 2014 and we'll cut the people off as much as we can. Well, that's the best, the worst example I can give you. They also cut clear capital investments for Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you God that's common, so I'm saying we're afraid of a variety of functional changes at the extremes of some who promised Slavonia and Baranja. At least equality and even development if nothing else. And in the end, this could be someone calling it demagogy. Put gentlemen in this situation when you speak and speak, and we know that Croatia is due, when Linic goes to America for a billion-dollar loan. So set a personal example. What's the matter with you? Come 10% of the salary, bring the regulation, no problem to yourself first of all and to us fellow MPs. We'll all raise our hands for it. No, they don't think they look at it at all. It didn't occur to them. And it will be cut off by people who have given for their country what is most valuable to a life, and some part of a body or part of an organ. In any case, given that among those receiving pensions under special conditions There are also those who can be cut and needed. [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] And the vast majority doesn't need to be cut, so because of that great majority, we'll be against this bill too. [[Intruder Zgrebec: You're out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63000	You've been talking for 15 minutes but you haven't been able to say anything about the law, but you have eight replicas because of it. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63001	You say a colleague here is being reduced by the weakest, the poorest, most of all by those who gave the most, you cut yourself down. So, we've abolished our parliamentary pensions, we've cut your salary, and I'm gonna cheer you up for Christmas, and we're gonna cut back on all our debt salaries. That's one thing. It made me very happy that you said something that is truly the goal of every good politician and every good policy, that the goal of our political elite, as you say, is to be 3,000 minimum pensions and 5,000 average pensions. That's right, we'll all agree on that. But in this way, in neoliberalism, that's not possible. You're quoting Holland, I'm glad you're quoting him and a series of these measures he's taken himself and we've taken many. His price is that he's the most unpopular politician, but he doesn't care about it. But that is why it is our chance to listen to the Pope's words right now, that the world needs, and in particular Europe, we need first of all a new economic policy, abandoning capitalism like today's fairer distribution of goods not later in tax cuts, but at the beginning of the division. And you say this government has divided. No, it's not. It is in the interest and respect for minorities, respect for different opinions, but it also creates physical obstructions, aspirations for militarisation of Croatia, discord with the Serb minority, giving up on the EU principle. So let's make a deal. We have so much good in the past that we accept what is good and condemn all that was bad and what was evil. I think we're both as a people and as citizens capable of something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63002	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63003	Well, you've said that nicely to your colleague Ingrid, so here's what it seems to me that you've actually spoken affirmably about my exposure to this one that I've said. But here's an example. The EBRD - The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development offered the Croatian railway a 1% interest loan, while part of the parts were installed from Siemens, but that ended after 4.5 attempts at political diplomacy and the German ambassador's engagement failed. Because the incompetent man was from your government appointed head of the Croatian Railways and he said he had to go to the sea to hurry so he couldn't talk to the German ambassador. Here are the examples, I've got more, I'll tell you more if you want. I've written all that, so I'll tell you. Or is the gentleman in Đura Djakovic who says here he will now grow lavender in the fields of Đura Đakovic because he will no longer produce PATRIA combat vehicles, etc., says it is more worth it, now agricultural products will start working in Đura Đakovic, yes. So, exactly what I said I wanted very much, a lot started. But he's always supported by the Deputy Prime Minister, and he's an incompetent man. So let's give people the ability to work, and not someone to play with, or that... What's his name from Romania, so it's a hohstappler who's been rejected in Montenegro with an explanation, so we've got our thieves who'll give us a Romanian thief. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Romania set up a committee to investigate his murky actions. The IMF is after him, but our Minister Hajdash Doncic is insistent on buying HZ Cargo. I don't know why it is. I wonder why it is. That's the kind of pestous business this country is leading to ruin. And that is why we are taking measures that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are paying for such false and bad moves by this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63004	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63005	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, you have said here, that is, you have called on these categories that I have mentioned which are receiving pensions according to the principle of solidarity. And that's something that shouldn't be controversial since we're defined as a solidarity state. But the problem is that these so-called. Preferred pensions, i.e. pensions under special regulations, are taken as the only argument that pensions are low, and this second information is not taken as to how much this solidarity affects the average of pensions. And then there's a gap of manipulations of individual categories. On the other hand, we had in this debate just before, or in this previous law, that we saw that the coefficients for these pensions, let's say, specifically, JNA officer, are greater than the coefficients for pensions not only of the Parliament but of the disabled and the defender. Therefore, we simply don't have a complete picture, but everyone takes the data as it suits him to promote or represent his own as Prime Minister Milanovic said to his worldview, and according to this worldview, it is not against the constitution, so only one-sided solutions are imposed that correspond only to one worldview without even taking into account the range of values and ideas that exist in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63006	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63007	My colleague Tudjman agrees with you that in fact the entire Croatian people with their solidarity of pension insurance contributions actually made it possible for the JNA officers and these other services that were federal to have to say to some extent in relation to others, I'm not saying that these are some big pensions, I said it would be best if the average was 5500 kuna. That's what we should be trying to do, isn't it? And as for those pensions you were talking about, the academics you were really talking about when we took everything, we're not going to talk about it now because we don't have enough time to talk about what academics are and how they deserve that retirement allowance, then I'd say, like Archimedes, don't touch my circles, don't touch our academics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63008	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63009	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Grubisic, here is because you have expanded the debate and my replica, although it will be short, will be somewhat wider than the topic that it is. It is about Croatian railways, so infrastructure and everything you know well that infrastructure is in extremely difficult condition because it has not been invested in the reconstruction and modernisation of the railways for years. And all of what's in the last two, and you know what's the biggest problem actually? The biggest problem is projects, preparation of documentation. Because we didn't even have projects to remount the tracks because two-thirds of the tracks are late in the remont, and that's a very big delay. And in that sense here's my replica is aimed at not being correct, man is neither here nor here, such qualifications that man has no slight connection to the railroad, if you're talking about the President of the Infrastructure Authority, if I understand you correctly. Such qualifications are not welcome. I'm not gonna pay attention to those qualifications that no one in the government is doing anything and that they're just drinking coffee. For the seriousness of this debate and here in the House, I don't think it's right because anyone who finds himself in such a situation especially in such systems where there's a lot of things to do and a lot of things that aren't popular at this point are not exactly to praise such people need help with constructive criticism and if not this type of qualification is not good. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63010	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63011	So I can get you a colleague, like Sagar, right? Namely, in order for you to explain that there is a man in HZ's administration who has seven criminal acts of power, who has been convicted by power. You want me to tell you the name of that man? You want me to give you judgments here? How about that? How can I tell you that the Czech gentleman, the seventh on Forbes's list of richest people in the world, asked that Luka Rijeka, along with the railroad and HZ Cargo, be the main axis of the transport port in this region and that he offered money, but no, he was rejected. You know it's called that, that Mr. Zdenek Bakala that's what it seems to me, what else can I tell you? That it's up to the sale of privatization in HZ infrastructure, do you know that? You'll see how that goes and a whole bunch of other things, ugly things. Iron fever will become someone's look and gold but if the Croatian people allow it, it is real.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63012	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63013	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Boro, you've made it very clear that Croatia won't be out of the crisis for much longer, so it won't come back ten percent while all countries in the environment record economic work both Bosnia and Herzegovina-Montenegro and Kosovo and Macedonia and Albania in the first half of this year came out of recession and by increasing exports. It's a World Bank announcement for the first term, from -0.7% to 1.8% of GDP, GDP and production increases. I mean, and we're talking today about the government not guilty because of this condition. Two years of wandering, not undertaking, non-investment, not continuing to build in projects that have started, not providing money, re-competition, waste and boastiness from 20 ministries combed 13 have received an opinion which is very questionable, which suggests that they have exceeded budget spending funds, that they have thrown everything and everything, that they have obtained goods and services without competition and no one, that there is certainly no need on these victims who gave their lives to Croatia and their families, that they have acted consciously and responsibly as they have announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63014	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63015	Col. Djakic, you said in the first sentence that those funds will never be returned to anyone now at 10%, so they did not even write that they would return them, only if they are not re-established so that 10% when GDP is growing, when it actually plays on the willow. Now, you can write how much you want your GDP, how many three quarters I've read to you in this material. So that these funds that have been taken away can only be re-established by these ten percent seized if Croatia has GDP growth in three consecutive quarters of 2%, so if I'm okay, that's how it is. When it's going to be, that's why I've been talking about what's tearing down our GDP, which makes it impossible for us to have better pensions, which makes it impossible for us to have a safer system, makes it impossible for us to be incompetent and unhappiness first of all in public enterprises, but also in government. And that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63016	Ada Damian replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63017	Thank you, Vice President. This is how you mentioned to your colleague Grubisic only one category of officers who paid federal pension insurance funds, to remind you, I'm going to say, I've had 38 years of work, I've been paying off this federal fund, I don't know what fund you were paying into when you started working, which pension fund, but according to what you said, means they should take away a part of your pension or maybe a whole pension but not just for everyone who worked there, the problem isn't in that part of people and all those people who worked before we got the Croatian Pension Fund. The problems are far broader, the problem is that unfortunately we don't have production, too few people are employed and too many pensioners. Therefore, we have a Generation Solidarity Fund but if we continue at such a pace unfortunately for me and for you there will probably not be a pension. So we need to make sure that we have as many employees as possible, as much as possible to strengthen the economy and as few pensioners as possible by not wanting to disappear from the scene, but that some long-lived pensions are as good as possible and as effective as possible to get to the level you mentioned earlier, a minimum of three and a maximum of five, give God and more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63018	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63019	I didn't say minimal, I said minimum three, but I didn't say that maximum five is medium, so let's say the average pension in the Republic of Croatia. And what you're saying, so we both agree that the rest of the income and the newly created value so the development of the economy will probably allow some kind of shift from a dead end. But what I don't agree with your replica, it's a factor, so all of Croatia has been solid on the principle and principle of solidarity involved in creating all pensions, including those in which you have spoken, but the factor is 0.9 and here is 0.40 or 0.50, which is the problem for our disabled Homeland War and defenders, right? So it's like these are worth more than these. Why the different factors? I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63020	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63021	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, you have wondered why in your debate, why the most sensitive groups must pay for the failure of this government, that is a fact. And again again today I repeat, with 107 billion revenue and 122 expenditures in 2011, we paid higher salaries, higher taxes, all collective contracts, transportation and everything that went from the state budget. A system was created after three years of government, which, with 113 billion incomes and 130 billion expenditures, requires further waivers from everyone in this country. It's such a system. And not to talk about the increase and taxes, etc. So these are the results they've been projected. Speaking of traffic, you mentioned HZ, we had a thematic session today. The minister first said one fact today. Who's designing our Transport Infrastructure Development Strategy? Hungarian-Spanish consortium. That's true. So, the strategy for the next 10 years is making us a Hungarian-Spanish consortium. What's in it says we'll find out, he said, in a few months. And as for, but it is very clear from what we are presented today, the first major projects will start in 2016 on the infrastructure except for the Long Village-Križevci stock. For everything else, nothing's ready. Our traffic has dropped 40 million passengers in HH transport. There is no way more traffic will be reintegrated by any rural part of the Republic of Croatia. He's giving up the highway, and the state roads become competition with highways. Now we're going to invest all the money in state roads. And when I compare that to one statement, and today a lot has been quoted, especially the Vice President of the Parliament, then one of his 2010s. Many government measures protect 200 of the richest families of the 1990s, and the Republic of Croatia is the only country that has raised taxes in times of recession instead of reducing them. This was said in 2010 in Korčula.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63022	Thanks, buddy. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic. Please follow the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63023	So Mr. Boric, 3 companies in Croatian Railways, so infrastructure, passenger transport and HZ Cargo. It could have been, I'd say, one spine or one center one, let's say, the axis of economic development. Namely, these Croatian railways are bound by ports and Rijeka and Ploče and Sibenik and Zadar. So, ports. To HZ Cargo you are bound by the great possibilities of transportation for Petrokemija, for INA, for sugars, for Croatian forests. So they all have an interest in that. Next, one of those who wanted to invest in HZ Kargo, buy it, wanted to move their transport that now has, from Trieste and Copra to Rijeka, why? So because it is cheaper from Rijeka to the Czech Republic than from Copra where you pay for a very, very expensive transport through Austria and Slovenia instead of Croatia and Hungary. But those who decide are stuck with that, Gruya, and what can a man say? A man would have to suspect and ask himself, and why? But maybe that'll be the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63024	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63025	Dear fellow Grubisic, it seems strange to someone to discuss your discussion since you mention the railroad, you are talking about the railway, and in fact we are talking about the law, about reducing these privileged pensions, etc. However, I'm going to propose to you what you said to show what this is about what you're talking about and that law. The plan is to reduce 800 employees of railway buildings, 403 employees through incentive measures, 300 employees this year, 700 to 2016, 2203 employees in HZ. What Mr. Boric said to the study is done to us by the Spanish as if Croatia had neither transport nor economic nor other colleges. But what we're talking about when we're talking about saving and the government's programme and where it's leading us, today at this closed famous traffic session where for the first time in two years he was a minister, though, in a very short time because he had a meeting he couldn't postpone with Minister Greece, says HZ infrastructure stays alone because all the daughters' companies are going out. One of them was recapitalised this year with 134.3 million kuna and all other jobs will no longer be done through these companies because they have been recapitalised, removed, but will be carried out through public procurement procedures, perhaps through those Romanians, Spanish, Hungarians. Now the question is, we're saving up here, and there's been a heated debate about defenders and disabled people, about those who have and pensions like that, where with these 2203 employees who will be paid for the severance, who will be reduced? What will this company do when the proceedings are made through public procurement? There are 44 trains that you mentioned were produced in Gredel and imported through these pearls. It's to kill a program that, I think, definitely runs this country, and also traffic in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63026	Thank you very much, thank you. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63027	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, I agree with you in much of what you have said, but they are interesting to these consulting companies that are so ordered. I've never seen any foreign consultants in your government before. Sales, highway monetization,... A foreign consulting company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sale of Zagreb Airport, foreign company. Croatia's insurance sale, foreign company, consultant. Well, it's very interesting, and yet I have to say very suspiciously, that all of a sudden, the advisory or consulting companies in Croatia, as if we don't know, were driven by another minister, this one to Zagreb Airport, who chased her. So if he has driven them away, then he knows better than they do. He knows that matter, more familiar than they know. And now, I'm not gonna say anything, the prices are huge, the money is being spent by the pardons, the money from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the taxpayers, and now we have a law like this here. That's why it is well connected actually all this together, and I tried to connect it, but here, your explanation is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63028	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63029	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Regardless of the criticism that you are not in the topic you were very much in the topic of colleagues Grubisic in your debate because you have just cited everything that has led to this. And remember the parole is our job to secure your business, it was one of the passwords amongst other things of the Kukuriku coalition and there it is with 300 thousand unemployed here we are at 365 and every day a thousand new ones. Since they increased themselves you said well about the Government's office 22%, but let's just say they don't remember it, and I'll say it a thousand times again, and that they remember the teachers who need to be paid and the travel teacher, that they remember the doctors who humiliated them so much, that they're making fun of not only 35 kuna logs, but Minister Linic says I won't give them seven kunas, they won't get anything or wait. You know the Croatian people and you agree with me he's always been solid and they were all solid and the defenders were solid when they saw that there was some sense, and both academics and all the other teachers and everyone else, but if you're solid and you're someone who's got more solidarity and stronger and falling into the gap, so I think it would be the most solidarity that those fine with the Croatian people to go and say sorry, don't ever get angry again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63030	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63031	...of various epithets and that of the Prime Minister, the doctors of speculators, the peasants, the Slavons, let them not sing the Viennas, but let them go for their work I am talking about Slavonia in total, the defenders of the chauvinists and we heard that, the teachers will be patient,... while the grass grows at Christmas 7.1. will receive two transports. And as for the parole you said, I didn't read them at all, and I didn't care about their parolees, and every day they didn't change, and they didn't have much, so our job was to secure your job, and that's the only thing Italian could do is sing Paroles, passwords, passwords.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63032	We're moving on to the individual debate of colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63033	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. So here I am going to try to stick to the law a little bit. Therefore, the very interesting explanation of this law, which says the proposed law, is the savings of the state budget for the financing of pensions and about 303 million kuna. Now, if there was another set of laws going along with this, then I'd probably be discussing this law differently for the simple reason why, for human, political reasons, I wouldn't have the right to speak differently. However, this law is passed for only one group of people. This law represents approximately 8.4 or 8.5% of the total pension payment, and this law offers some confusion, especially after the minister's intervention. So I'm going to start with Article 6a, so until when does this article apply? Here it clearly writes GDP growth in each of the previous consecutive three quarters according to DZS data is at least 2% and then the next catch which is very important, and that is the government budget deficit in the same period of 3%. Now, look at your colleagues and colleagues, when you look at the government's document and these are the guidelines of fiscal economic policy, then here it tells you that the deficit in 2016 will be 4.5%. This means that this law is bound to apply by 2017. However, Mr. Minister, if you want to predict this law, then you have to define whether this 35 deficit refers to budget projection or to budget implementation can happen to you that in the first three months of one year you have an economic growth of 2%, and by this definition, as is the case in the law, you will not know by the second or third month of the following year what is the deficit of the state budget. until the moment this High House... on budgeting for the previous year. And there's going to happen to you one time dispersal or any distance you want from eight to nine months. So if you want this law then you can go with the saying projected deficit, it's this kind of home that adopted it and it's like that until the moment it's not budgeting. and thus the defenders and these other groups who will be reduced pensions will certainly not receive a reduced pension for at least 9 months. So I'm telling you clearly from the formulation because the moment the Croatian Parliament adopts the budget report, you don't know what the deficit is, so since we're going to be in excessive deficit measures, we're going to have to wait for EUROSTAT confirmation from Brussels whether what the Croatian government has shown is true or not, and that gap will happen to you for a year. So according to these projections and what will happen in Croatia, this means that before 2017, this law will not stop. The next thing I know, it's very strange, and that's Article 3(2), the grand sum of pensions or pension supplements reduced under paragraph 1 of this article can't amount to less than 5 thousand kuna. And now watch Mr. Minister what you have, all pensions and here should not cost 5 thousand but should be 5 thousand and 1 kuna because 5 thousand kuna is lower category, 5 thousand 1 kuna is higher category, so from 5 thousand 1 kuna to 5 thousand 550 kuna you have either proportionally or nominally, whatever tax you want. And let's say someone who has a pension of 5100 kuna will lose his pension by 100 kuna or 1.96%. Someone who has 5300 will be reduced by 300 kuna or 5.66% and all the way to 5555 kuna where they will reduce their pension by 555 kuna and will generally come to 5000 kuna. And you have to legally define it because for all these cuts you're going to have to issue some kind of solution or... automation. If you're going to automatism into that umbrella that they're shooting at, you're going to have to specify how they're going to get rid of and calculate these pensions, whether it's going to be a nominal withdrawal, and then it'd be good to change this item 2 and say up from the nose of that and that's 5555 kuna, pensions will be reduced nominally by the amount they exceed 5000 kuna, and only above 5555 kuna you have a 10% reduction. So you have to clearly define by law you want to have a nominal or percentage reduction, and a percentage reduction means any pension that is greater than the previous one has a different percentage, so you're going to have to go to a few decimals. So it's about a very difficult application of this law, this Article 3a more than there is a very little time left because you're practically going to start paying off the 5th of January you're going to have to start paying off after this. I highly doubt the IT team will be able to adapt because it's a few dozen thousand people. See paragraph 2 as it reads, 5200 means 200 kuna is reduced. Is that a percentage reduction or a nominal reduction? You can't go to two different model decreases. Then if you go to it then you have to indicate pensions up to that and that amount is reduced nominally by the difference between 5000 and the amount of pension, and pensions above 5555 kuna are reduced by 10%. Because if you don't do it, anyone who initiates your procedure will get slow because you haven't defined the law. And another thing, Mr. Minister, the sum is neither Croatian nor financial nor any expression. So every solution that every user of this pension gets is to the amount, not to the sum and all of these things where you mention the amount simply needs to be removed out because the sum doesn't mean anything, the amount means everything to us. So, it just shows how much ad hoc and quickly this law is made and it can create... and even if someone raises the issue of its constitutionality because of this question is how the Constitutional Court would react. That's what I'm telling you about a crisis tax. When the issue of its constitutionality was raised, how much smallness was insisted. Therefore, the law is both nomotechnically and technically bad and applicable very difficult. So, I'll go back to the beginning of my debate. Which led us to the fact that it is very important for the government to reduce incomes by 303 million by several tens of thousands of people, where a population of whom has been hit in recent years. First of all, they're called fake disableds, so I'd like to see the false defenders and I'd like to see today after all these years of calling how many processes have been completed and how many false wartime disableds and false defenders have been found, even though I'll never tell false defenders, a false military invalid, but it's a thief, a fraud. There's no fake, or it's Homeland War invalid, or it's a defense attorney, and whoever used it is a fraud, and he cheated on the state. So we can talk about differences and come to where Croatia is today. Croatia is now under excessive deficit measures and Croatia has no budget at the moment. We have been clearly sent from Brussels a message that I have been projected a deficit next year, and the question is that it will be 3.5 billion kuna or it will be more than 5 billion kunas of increase compared to what economic analysts say, so it will not be 17,5 billion kuna, but it will be somewhere around 21 billion kuna. The government will have to propose a new budget that we will discuss in a month, two or three. And that's why this law I don't see at all its meaning because we need to cut 10 times as much budget as is proposed by this law. Well, then the more logical thing is that if the government knew that the rise in excessive deficit measures would then propose all measures and that the package should be discussed. There are some debates from some colleagues on the opposite side of the Assembly that have simply shown that they have no argument for this. Those who talk about what was done before, look at the decisions, never have the defense pensions cut themselves, ever. However, they were a package of measures, first of all reducing 6% of all pensioners and, among other things, all salaries, and then reducing the debt salaries and preferential pensions 10%, but in agreement with the 18 associations that came from the Homeland War, in agreement with them, and that should be said. And no matter how difficult it was for someone to make this move, the Prime Minister should not have made a decision before sitting with representatives of the home war associations and, as they agreed to in previous years, they would have agreed and now because, as they were willing to give their life for Croatia, they are ready to retire to sacrifice for Croatia. And as inconsistencies as this law of colleagues and colleagues are inconsistencies, a few months ago we debated that the HZMO director should be paid up because he manages a third of the pension fund, so he who manages should be raised, and those who win should be reduced. It's the policy of this government that we can't agree to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63034	Thank you very much. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63035	Well, fellow Shuker, you've noticed, it's hardly until 2017 that anything will move since the Prime Minister himself has made it clear to this speaker when he adopts the budget that this government will not get the country out of the crisis for the next three years. He made that clear here and told Croatia what was waiting for us. That this law has led to a group of Croatian victims being discriminated against, that is, the fact. We put one in a position to be excluded, they're 100% disabled who are really hard. They're children without both parents, and that's all of the groups that are excluded by this law. Families of the dead, imprisoned and missing, parents and widows, Croatian wartime men with no hands, legs, blind, deaf, with wounds. They're an object of 10%. Yes, there were before measures and 2% taxes and 4% and 6% and 10%. It was everything. 3 and a half thousand were disbursed in 2001, which all received in the administrative dispute, and Croatia paid them for it and interest and all compensation and court fees and disputes, all were paid alive. It is happening again that this population that certainly did not deserve anything will have to be faced legally and legally on the spear, but certainly different from these measures which are certainly not well-accepted in the population of Croatian victims from the Homeland War and the disabled, and measures are also against those who have over 5,000. It's more about officers, generals and officers, because they, as such a category with larger examples, are as much about this as the disabled from the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63036	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63037	Yes, colleague Djakic. The problem is, when you have such a poorly defined law, it's pulling lawsuits. These lawsuits will be paid by someone else and we know from the past years how many lawsuits there have been and how much has been paid from the state budget, and therefore I have said that Article 3a. and Article 6a. should be clearly defined. Because Article 6a. The way it tells us that in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 will be taken by defenders and other beneficiaries who are reducing pensions, and that is about a billion and 300, billion and 400 million. However, Article 3a. It clearly states that anyone who reduces pensions by the basis of such a bill where it is not defined that those who have a pension below 5000, between 5000 and 5550 pensions are reduced by a nominal amount of up to 5000, and those over 5550 for 10% are entitled to a lawsuit and will certainly receive a lawsuit because the law does not define how much pensions are reduced. And they can't get their pension reduced if the law says so. But if this were to happen, it's not the first time this government is involved, in fact, the political option remember the 2000 IMF Agreement, the lawsuit, so later the default is certain fees to police officers. So the educators and police officers were paid more than 2 and a half billion kuna, and therefore it was a well-intentioned suggestion of the Minister to this article 6a. and Article 3a. clearly defines for a simple reason if Croatian defenders are already taken to know when and how much they are taken. It's funny to him, but the one who's gonna pay for the lawsuits isn't gonna be funny at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63038	Ivan Simunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63039	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Shuker, you mentioned the reduction of pensions to Croatian defenders, fake disabled, false defenders. This proposal reaffirms and shows the government's and state's attitude towards Croatian defenders, to those who are actually the foundation of this country. Because let's not forget that they weren't their victims, their courage, their pride, we probably wouldn't be sitting here today either. In the original foundations of our Constitution, which we have been constantly mentioning and challenging lately, it is said that the foundation of our independent state stands in the victory of the Croatian people and the emphasis of Croatian defenders in the Homeland War. Also speaking of the Constitution, the Government finds the basis for the adoption of such a law in Article 16(2). The Constitution which states that any restriction of rights or freedom must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case. And I guess she forgot to read paragraph 1 of the same article that says freedoms and rights can be limited to protect the freedoms and rights of other people, as well as legal order, public morality and health. I therefore do not understand how reducing pensions protects defenders from legal order, public morality and health. Given these circumstances that we are all very aware of, which we often forget, I believe that the privileged pensions of Croatian defenders should be respected as well as the defenders themselves and their victims, because they have earned these pensions with honor. Of course, there are dolls in every grain, so there are those who have acquired those pensions in an illegal way and it is certainly for every conviction. But it was this government that stressed that the publication of the defence registry would clear the situation, as Minister Matic once said every false defence attorney stands a million euros. This reduction again puts all the defenders in the same basket and the government tries to cover up its failure instead of finally having one job Do it right from start to end. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63040	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63041	Thank you very much. Comrade Simunović, you've noticed very well. The register of Croatian defenders has been announced pompously and there will be tens of thousands of false defenders. Well, here's the register. How many people who don't belong there and no false defenders. There are frauds on the one hand, on the other side of the Croatian defenders. And simply no one has the moral human right of the Croatian defender to call false defenders. They have thieves and con men like every segment of society. So, from 500 and 2000, I don't know if 2,000 complaints have come and how many cases have been solved. But I'm saying, it's an important PR, marketing entertainment nation to cover up the non-implementation of some other measures. And unfortunately, such a story, such a policy has led us to an excessive deficit. Because even if word was out that there may have been some legacy in the deficit in 2012 from the previous year, the 2014 deficit was solely the result of the act or would have said the inactions of this government. No more traces of the past. And therefore, the measures of the excessive deficit and all that is going to happen next year are going exclusively to the soul of this ruling nomenclature that has been unable to implement structural reforms, which has not been able to run the Croatian economy and today we have the situation that we have. And we can have ugly debates like we unfortunately were in this House today, but after these ugly debates, we're going to be back in the measure of excessive deficits, we're going to have 357 thousand unemployed, we're going to have over 800 thousand pensioners who are going to be below 3000 and I'm not counting any further. And we can worship here as much as we want, but these worships speak better of those who bring it up, how much they have no argument for the right thing than for those who are told it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63042	And Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63043	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You mentioned Articles 3a and 6a in this proposed law. For example, when we talk about Article 6a, I would comment on it, so when it will stop applying these 10% to pensions of more than 5000 kuna, on pensions under special conditions, and over 5000 kuna, then it is said that when it is three quarters of the calendar year, it is over 2% of GDP growth. So I'd say this and who knows when and where. Furthermore, when you talked about what was said verbally, and everything is said verbally these days and then it's said and then it retreats. The labour law is said to be so that something has retreated, etc. It was said by the prime minister that touching the pension line was the last line, I think that's what he said he didn't say the line, although I would say the line, the last line of the defense of social rights, that's what he meant. That's exactly what he said, right? And here, 20 days after that statement of defense of the last line of social rights, we already have this legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63044	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63045	Thank you very much. Only colleague Grubisic knows when and who knows where those who received special status in the Pension Insurance Act sang. Therefore, who knows where and who knows when it does not apply to Croatian defenders, they fought against those who sang this. But you remember a colleague, Boric, said quite figuratively three weeks ago about the excessive deficit. And you see, that's when the Prime Minister said that he's telling sketches, that it's a great sketch, that he might show up at the BBC. However, look at fellow Grubisic today, the Croats are crying because he definitely said he handed us over to the Brussels administration and today the Brussels administration has told us that we should behave for the next three years. You see the sketch, some laughed, but unfortunately because of the sketches of this government, the Croats are crying very hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63046	Comrade Tinker Millas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63047	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a replica or a debate, fellow Shucker? Okay. [[Intruder Shucker: I've replicated.]] So I wanted to start in all these discussions, for example, economically and financially very analytical and precise, for which I thank Mr. Shuker to what was before, I would like to try to point out more in my debate the circumstances that preceded the retirement and all that preceded, therefore, to those we call users so-called. Preferred, i.e. pensions under special regulations. Therefore, according to the promoter, how it has been demonstrated and how long the need to save funds has been going on, therefore, to reduce the total revenue, i.e. the expenditure of the state budget, we must also start saving in the pension part. And on whom we will save rather than in categories of people who have pensions according to special regulations. And to this end we have this bill of law where we want to or not want to but most of all we have to refer to the most numerous group, which are Croatian defenders, or members of their families. The first question that this bill imposes is that it forced the government to distinguish the disabled and murdered Croatian defenders in the Homeland War. So those who fought for the defense of sovereignty and who were killed in the same place at the same time by the same enemy and unfortunately one is dead, and the other is 100% disabled. And their criteria today, their conditions and their circumstances seem to be not the same under this bill. How this can be different in the first place and how to compare all these pensions, i.e. the circumstances that preceded pensions under special regulations. I ask, is there even a more difficult criterion or condition, a more difficult circumstance that can put someone in the role of a pensioner from death, I don't know killing or anything like that? I think we need to think about it, so maybe we can talk differently about this whole bill, and maybe it wouldn't be there. The question arises why do we persistently place these groups as a burden for taxpayers, and why do we in some way simply crowd against that group? The only particularity in the calculation of these pensions stems from really special circumstances, it stems from circumstances called aggression, i.e. opposition to that aggression. Or if it were different, most of these people would be today or in a working relationship or might already have a full-time pension, so thanks to their work experience, or perhaps have a lot of families of two incomes or even two pensions. This is how the promoter, as well as the resolution ministry, simply cut off this 10%, so let's keep it 5,000, and that's about the pension everyone would like today. However, both the ministry and the promoter have forgotten a part called the legal aspect that those who have damage to the organism, those who unfortunately died and killed simply their pension cannot be compared to the pension under general rules. So they were stopped at the most productive age of any death, either by hurting any disease, by losing their jobs. And believe often those who are in that category today fall into the category and those whose homes have been destroyed, whose family houses have disappeared in the destruction of war, who indeed have endured this war in the most difficult and worst sense, along with their families with whom they lived, so that they would be broken all over Croatia and reassembled and patched up again just as we patch up this budget. So, it's very hard, not even at all. And it's good yesterday on the board of brief crackdowns, so to the board of directors yesterday, Mr. Djakic invited representatives of associations where there were also associations of widows of dead defenders and parents of dead defenders and veterans, and if I'm not mistaken of the Guards, so all day long a series of associations that speak enough are representatives of the defence population. How many of the populations they represent, how big we don't know. But the fact is, as we are representatives of the people of this people who chose us, they represent both Croatian defenders and they showed very clearly what we think yesterday. Yesterday, Mrs. Ned Balog, who represents the widows of the dead defenders, asked why everything that happened and what preceded this difficult situation that we are in today, all of which, why does this account not turn out to be someone else, an aggressor, Serbia? Why don't we think about it? In fact, we're thinking that maybe we'll drop the charges because I don't know we discovered 11 or 12 of our dead, missing, murdered in... Among other things, it should be pointed out that the largest number of those who are users of these pensions today are not only users by special regulations, these are people who have an average of 15 and more years of work experience before the start of the aggression, before the start of the Homeland War, whose contributions have been paid into the budget and who, therefore, are one part of this burden that we are dealing with today, and there are people who, therefore, have families where today we do not have individual members who, along with the internship, would not know which one he has achieved, believe me, have achieved more than this pension that we are saying today is privileged or according to special regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Among other things, it may have been necessary to make, not perhaps but a sure analysis and indicators, so let's see what the reduction that was in 2010, which contributed to the overall filling of the state budget, what contributed? Maybe they'd be a little smarter then, so they know what's going to come out of this. And here's how my colleague Schuker said this would come back. We probably don't have to expect it until 2017, according to budget projections by 2016. Namely, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2011-2015 programme. The government argues that it has identified key structural measures and identified their monitoring and says that economic growth and necessary acceleration, intensive structural reforms are needed and the introduction of long-term sustainable criteria for obtaining and achieving pension rights. So, the real sustainability of the pension system. However, does anyone know what will be needed for the economic recovery of the Croatian defender's family after 1 January 2014. The criteria for obtaining pensions are very important. And we need to know that the different circumstances they have contributed can only hope that they will never be as they have contributed or as they were for these people we speak of today, so we are talking about the largest group of these categories, so we can hope that there will never be another war or suffering as it was. Did the Proposer take care of the social economic status and sustainability of the users after the reduction, what is the data, which is with the users of the protected accounts, or those on which they are to be carried out, I don't know why, whether because of the credit or because of the unpaid directories, but there are those. Therefore, a reduction must be made in retirement and achieved from participation in the suffering of the defence of the homeland, war and the circumstances of the war are not and cannot be a more favourable way to achieve pension incomes because we are thus degraded both the person and his rank and the place of establishment and all that he is and what he was in that work called the creation of homeland and sovereignty. Finally, Mr Shuker asked, and that is my question, because I did not see in the law what about solutions for such pensions, whether we will get them or whether users will get them, and if not, if someone doesn't get his pension calculations on what they're going to complain about and what it's going to look like in a legal sense. Does that mean the appeal won't be possible? In the end, I would pray here as a man, as a defender and so deeply human that the Government is therefore a resolute ministry and the Ministry of Defence who is obliged to care and to point out the problems of the population that represent and reconsider the circumstances and criteria that are the condition that defenders or members of their family become beneficiaries of the pensions that we are talking about today. So these pensions are their daily life, it's not a pension for a man who's lived his working life, but it's their daily life and their care for children who today when they stay after school have no job, they're still worried about them, sick parents, and they're already sick.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63048	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63049	You say a colleague with the right, here I agree with you that these issues should be discussed very soberly that there was no loss of employment, that both in the family would work, that there was no need for so many pensions, but you should remember equally that these people who defended their country, when they came back if they were ever lucky to come back they didn't have anywhere to go, not just the destroyed homes you were talking about but there wasn't any more of their jobs, so they moved humanely to the pensioners. Over 200 thousand unpaid contributions we have for the last ten years, over 200,000 unpaid contributions we have the last 10 years, over 200,000 people. How much we struggled to pay, not only wages but also contributions, to be a felony, and just when it was done, it mysteriously and disappeared from the Penal Code. You say now, that here, this bill degrades everything we call the creation of the Croatian homeland. I will remind you, you were not yet in the Croatian Parliament, but in 28.05.2010 it was Friday when our colleague, Josip Djakić, spoke like this. Here, Mr. President, I must say that I am always in the air, sometimes emotionally and heartily defending the interests of Croatian disabled Homeland War and Croatian defenders and today this 10% reduction in pensions, be assured, we have made that decision unanimously on the main board of HVIDRA at an extraordinary session, we have also made a decision, this last four months by 4% of this special tax and therefore I am hard and sorry, all I have done, but speaking with all relevant, both Minister and Shuker and Ivić and Prime Minister, now listen to this, surely these measures are necessary, necessary and I believe that my fellow fighters will understand my efforts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63050	Replication response, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63051	Dear colleagues, according to everything you've said, it turns out to me that the category, i.e. the population of Croatian defenders and their families, turns out to be some kind of collateral sacrifice for this country. You said yourself that they lost jobs, I still hold that by the greatest act of aggression because they come from such an area where everything was really ruined, and I have seen all over Croatia everything that was. In the end, if Djakic was brought in on 25.10th in agreement with, conditionally speaking, the defence population, and I ask you why there is no dialogue on this side as well? Why don't you talk to those same people, why don't you gather them together, why don't you come among them? No one protects you or fears these people, though. There are many people in the population of Croatian defenders who voted for this government as well. What's this about? Maybe that would make it easier for us to talk a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63052	The next replica, Honored Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63053	Thank you very much. My colleague, you spoke, my colleague Milas, you also spoke of those who after they made their pension and took their pension, and I also spoke in my speech, so they spend their pension and live abroad. Well, you see, in any case, every defender, widow, mother, dead Croatian defender or children, it certainly offends when they see, mainly in Vukovar-Srijem County, sees, hears, knows, or meets persons who have been very actively involved in the rebellion and large-serb aggression, not to say Chetnic, and today they work at the Tovarnik police station, in Ilock and in other municipalities in Vukovar-Srijem County and will, therefore, have, receive their pension that they will spend in their second place, not their residence, but their stay, and today many travel from the Bac Palace or Novi Sad or Šida to work in Vukovar-Srijem County, and earn their pension in the area of the Republic of Croatia. There are no problems for them, but they are not covered by these measures, most likely, most of them, but it is unfortunate that the Croatian state is sending 10% of pensions abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63054	Replication response, Your Honor, Agent Miles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63055	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Grubisic, you are right, however, I think that is the answer to that thesis that we must be generous in winning. Didn't the Croatian state just show paying off pensions, all in a row, how generous she is in that victory and how much she cares about peace, prosperity in this country? And that's exactly what the Croatian defenders were showing, because for 20 years, I can't remember that there was a protest somewhere or something like that until this unfortunate Cyrillic came along. Well, that's the answer, even to the Prime Minister, when he said we should be generous, so I mean generous for 20 years. 20 years, especially in that part of the country. Shut up, I'll even say, suffer and humiliate and in a difficult life, but he never showed it in any inappropriate or rude way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63056	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Djakic and Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63057	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Milas, you have well concluded that there are ways to annoy Croatian defenders and how to ensure them a safe, stable and normal life without constant attacks on their existence. Yes, the war damage Serbia needs as an aggressor to pay for the Republic of Croatia must never be forgotten. It must never be withdrawn and a genocide suit from which it will also have to be always in the minds of everyone who runs this country. When you talk about the legitimacy of our demands that we refer to as associations from the Homeland War, as well as us as representatives who present their opinions, who we have talked to them as opposed to those who laugh at all our announcements, who have not even conducted a public debate or lasted on the Internet for six days on this quick bill. That's what nobody wants to talk about. Six days on the website is a debate on pension cuts. The associations disagreed with the minister's talks further when they discussed everything about wanting to make 10% of the pensions the same way. In my performances, I will continue to defend and protect the interests of the victims of the Homeland War and of all those who will give me the mandate to talk about their deaths, their wounds about their life difficulties and everything that follows them through life, especially these reductions and misunderstandings towards their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63058	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63059	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Djakic, you're right. All the groups, all the categories of this society always have someone who represents them, who represents what they think, what they represent, what suppresses them, at the end as well as here. I said we're representatives of those who chose us to represent their interests and it's impossible to always present everything in one breath. Let's say we could have asked all the people in this country individually if VAT went to 25% and I'm sure 99.9% would disagree. However, legitimately, we have this power that has come through democratic elections and it has made such a decision and we must respect it. So as long as we have a mandate, you as a representative of HVIDRA, Mrs Neda as a representative of widows, we will have not only the possibility but first of all the task and the obligation to represent the interests and what these people are thinking, and above all I said that you would protect the interests of these people, I will also, above all, protect the interests of this entire country, of all its citizens, and therefore those people who are an unforgiving component and the strongest part of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63060	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63061	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am pleased to see that you, as defender, have been soberly discussing this law and what this law might bring to those to whom it will apply. And I'm glad that unlike colleagues who are not... for this law you've been using various attacks to open several topics, one of the key topics is how much real war damage in the Republic of Croatia is. I think that if we were to ask these colleagues now, none of them know that the good 14, 15 years each year are from the Croatian budget, which as a direct consequence of the war in the Republic of Croatia stands out almost 9 billion kuna. And if we were to talk in such a way, maybe today we were talking about a few of the topics that you've imposed, maybe there wouldn't be this mass hysteria, mass accusations, but we'd be talking about real problems. Does anyone talk about how much Croatia lost in human potential, how much it lost in the creative potential of all those who were wounded who were killed? So, after all, how demographically did Croatia lose, how many young Croats and Croats died when they were supposed to create a family and have children? And when you turn that, maybe it's a little harshly said, in the budget because when they create, then they pay taxes and fill the state budget. And if we discussed this subject in such a way, then it would be far more constructive and then we would talk with full pie about those who gave their life, who gave part of their body for this Croatian state and then we would talk with far more respect about those who fought for this Croatian state. No, when some people have no idea about these numbers, they don't want to accept them as a fact, then they talk the way they talk. But colleagues and colleagues, over 9 billion for 15 years, unfortunately because of these nearly 6 billion pensions related to Croatian defenders, they will only increase, the figure will be continuity and Croatia is the only member of the EU that has. I kept pointing out in the IMF, and my colleague Linic has to say today to this Brussels administration that because of their untimely action Croatia has these damages [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63062	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63063	... When it comes to laws like this, or topics related to these and similar populations, I stress especially this, so particularly sensitive, we can't simply, so I'm going to be rude to say bureaucratic something and say that's how they're going to stay that way and that's it. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We really need to think about that these pensions, I'm going to do it again, they're not pensions like I hope each and every one of you here, they're not that kind of pensions. I don't even know what to call it, you have broken families where you have a wife who has three kids she cares about, who's been schooling with that pension. When they finish school, they're out of business and they're still alive with that pension, and even if they have parents who are sick at the end of it, I don't even know if we have any idea how these people live. I personally can't say that I completely understand all of this, and then I can think that other structures of society approach or how much they're in this whole story. So I'm saying I don't know if that price is a few hundred million if it's that much of a figure in this population, is it really worth it to discuss this whole problem today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63064	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Djakic and his debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63065	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague and a colleague, we've already said a lot in our discussions and replicas. I'm sorry that those representing the defense population of the War Veterans Committee remain silent today. Some others speak on behalf of them, some others speak and debate on behalf of the defenders, some others say those things that have absolutely nothing to do with reality today. I, as a man, will make it clear that I was having a hard time talking to my own population in 2010, and I brought in a solidarity with a crisis that was in full swing, and that was the last time we agreed to cut the pension by 10%. We did, we said it, we're absolutely not ashamed of anything. But today's burden of crisis continues to grow stronger and stronger, while other countries are coming out of crisis and recession, we feel that we are not responsible and that we cannot pay twice the burden of the crisis. I'm talking about it today, and the defenders are talking about not wanting to pay twice the same burden of the same crisis and recession because they can't understand that all the trends that say that there is no economic growth, that there is no employment, that there is no industrial production, that there is no investment, that there is nothing, that prices are rising, the standard of living is difficult to maintain, the basket is too expensive. These are all the measures that have hit us in this past time from 2010 to 2013. Today is the end, today is almost 2014. Today, when you take your defenders another 10%, it's not the same as in those days. We paid for the burden of the crisis, we reluctantly agreed, I'm reluctant to point out, that's what my debate says, but nobody's going to read it, it doesn't matter. They take out segments that fit and match someone. I'm not ashamed of my words ever, I clearly stopped and after that in the defense population and got re-supported. So there's reason when dealing with people, there's reason when people are respected, there's reason when there's a population who's willing to give a lot of things, and most of all there's life when it's done, when legitimate representatives with legitimate explanations talk about what's going on. But it can't be called chauvinists, radicals, rightists, illiterates, boasters, or anyone who knows any evil names can't talk when there's no national values in their language, language, and respect. Not when it's forgotten what the Homeland War is, especially none of those who didn't participate in the Homeland War. Those who participated I noticed and saw that they also had sensibilities, that they also had commons, that they also had feelings that they shared the fate of the population, but in many cases they could not resist those demands and those suggestions that were ahead of them. As an individual, I certainly won't agree with this, I won't agree as a... club, but you must understand that this is a completely different story than in 2010 when the crisis and recession was at the strongest pace and the strongest echo. And then we said, HRVI, widows, parents of the dead should not be the subject, but we will once again agree to this Croatian state and bear the burden together. But this time it didn't happen. I have to inform you ministers and presidents of the Parliament and colleagues and colleagues, the associations have not agreed on that, they have not. I wouldn't perform because of politics, I wouldn't talk about it, I wouldn't waste my time, I wouldn't yell at the megaphone if it were different, if they'd said we understood, we agreed, we were called by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Pension Insurance, the Minister of Defence, a joint session made with the presidents of the associations, said please be with us in solving it, and we'll take down certain rights ourselves, we've taken down certain privileges and we'll share the burden of this crisis together. Maybe there would be reasonable solutions. But they all say the following. We can't understand today that we're 10% again. Why didn't the government ministers take down 10%? The assessment of the European Commission, European appraisal houses and audit houses is a waste. If the rating is garbage how can you pay your wages, on what grounds? You haven't achieved any results, everything's in a banana as some say before, everything's gone to the bottom. What we are talking about today, today, is that this population that has given the most for the country Croatia will again be a participant in the patching of holes or in the recovery of the budget. I believe that this is not the population, that you can justify nothing but the inability of the current government to initiate Croatia, that the economy in Croatia starts, that there is a clear relationship with the defence population, with the businessmen, with entrepreneurs, with craftsmen, with doctors, with teachers, with all, with unions, that there is a commonity, that there are not those topics in the Croatian ether and in the Croatian Parliament where we are wasting time and money and nerves and everything else that should not be the subject of day-long debates, ideological things that should be long ago to say forgotten and overcome and should not be subject to the Perkovics nor to change the Constitution nor to the referendums. There is more to be accomplished and solved by reason. By delaying the application of the law, there would be no cost of the referendum, there would be no dispute over the Cyrillic, there would be no regrets of HRVI, defenders of all species, headquarters in Vukovar, there would be no such punishment as the Christmas gift of HRVI, families of the dead, imprisoned and missing, widows and category that gave selflessly for the freedom of our country. I don't think that's appropriate and that it's certainly not the same as before today. It's not the same time, it's not the same crisis. We should have taken action a long time ago. Two years behind all of you ministers who run the state who are supposed to find solutions to getting out of the crisis. If they found this in Bosnia, Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Macedonia, Albania and increased GDP by 1.8% if they are evaluated by European auditors' houses, if the World Bank gives them such assessments, it means that indeed this set of yours has achieved nothing but all the negative trends of resentment with all of us, fighting and warring, calling and insults. These are the cards you're playing. And then when these demands arise for the exemption of this law and for the exception of the penalization of this category of people, you want to discriminate them further. And be assured of all this we will be confident and defenders of persons with disabilities and defences and the Constitutional Court and European courts will send a notice that you are treating acquired rights of Croatian defenders, that because of your incompetence you continue to discriminate against them, discriminate against a population that doesn't deserve anything, discriminate against those who have allowed you to be at the head of the Croatian state, to lead them in real steps, to make a real economic recovery, to respect anyone who has given his pain in the Homeland War, and especially from the perilous population. For it does not deserve to be avenged on it, that any man should wash his mouth, that any man may clothe the budget with those who have suffered and who need it most. They also need it because they reduce other rights, health care facilities, prosthetics. In this procedure 145 million are reduced budget of the Ministry of Defence so that it will be no longer for residential care, nor for health care, nor for prosthetics, nor for transport, nor for equipment, nor for anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63066	Thank you very much. One replica of respected counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63067	My colleague Djakic, I agree with everything you've said about the defenders because it's true in life. In general, those who suffer the most agree and understand the most, they understand the most. And I agree with you when you say you need to talk more. That's for sure and we all miss it, each one of us, none of it matters, none of it matters. However, it should not be manipulated, it must not be manipulated. They must not be manipulated by those who have just suffered, they must not be tickled. In fact, even when you disagree with politics, with a certain bill in such a way, you don't need to go to trouble. I don't think you want to see the scene where Croatian hands are on the neck of a Croatian policeman anymore. I'm sure you don't want that, I believe. Let us also remember the words of General Gotovina who was delivered, without saying a word during your reign, no one heard a word and who spoke beautifully peaceably when he returned said the war was over, let us turn to the future. And when you say no, when I voted to cut the pension by 10%, but they were, they weren't pensions above 5, they were already covered by over 3,000 kuna. You say it's not the same, it's not the same crisis. It's a crisis and it's harder. It's hard to get all those negatives out, it's hard and it's too hard and I believe you know that, too. It's obviously something else that hurts you, that it's different. It's all basically, the weight is almost the same, if not the weight, but it's the second power. And here I once again appeal to peace except for these generals' words. Remember also Matthew's letters, "Bless the peacemakers, they shall be called sons of God."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63068	Replica response, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's nice to hear from you guys such good intentions, but I'd say in translation you wanted to say drive a horse who wanted to pull. Because he's always going to be a solid, he's going to back off, he's going to solidarity with everyone. But if he says anything about problems, then it's no good. Or if it's a clumsy expression again, it's no good. What would you say to the prime minister who, at my invitation yesterday, that we paid twice for this crisis and recession and that we won't and can't pay twice, that we paid with blood, and now we pay financially, says it's nice to see a man with warm intentions. But these lows will cause even my bigger ones. I'm not going to go to Parliament today, but there's going to be an opportunity, so I'm sure I'm going to give it back three times as much as the one who stoned you with bread is nice to you, but it's hard to survive. Madam and colleague, the war is over, let's turn to the future. What kind of future Croatian defenders will have if they are a permanent subject of someone's sex. Well, yeah, it's eight times since 2001, eight times. Three times in power where I was a parliamentary representative, also 2%, 4%, 6% and 10%. Four times, here's four times I'll say it now. But why twice, why now again. Why tell me again? Because of someone's incompetence, we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63070	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Ivić, his debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63071	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Here last week, we had a debate in this House on amendments to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, where the movement of feathers abolished the rights of unemployed Croatian defenders and those who were not able to attract them, which is a provision and which is transferred to what the new Social Care Act calls a guaranteed monthly fee and in which, by amending that law, at least 1000 defenders who have so far had the right to do so, the right to lose. And those who can achieve it under the new Social Care Act will be reduced by nearly 300 kuna, for the largest number of users of the supply were single. There was talk that families would get more than boredom. I agree with that, but most Croatian defenders who used supplies are single. And here is a few days from this debate and we get a new bill where Croatian defenders who are beneficiaries of pensions and whose pension is more than 5000 kuna from 1.01 next year's pensions are reduced by 10%. And that will include 36 250 Croatian defenders. The average reduction will be around 600 kuna and the state budget next year will save on Croatian defenders 258 million kuna. And of course, the question is, will this 258 million kuna savings save the Republic of Croatia's budget, will it contribute to stabilising the budget? Of course not, they're stories for little kids. If for the next year we have a planned minus 17 billion kuna in the state budget, which means 258 million kuna? And that minus is certainly going to be greater than the estimated 17 billion kuna. What does that 258 million kuna mean? Will the state be saved for that 258 million kuna? And what he's saying, and I totally agree, and Mr. Shucker is right that these measures were never taken individually or alone, but that it was a series of measures. Even the last time a colleague Shucker said there was a discussion about reducing defence pensions there was also the introduction of a 2% and 4% crisis tax, so there was a reduction in income for officials and other measures. Today we only discuss Croatian defenders exclusively. And what I said yesterday on the Committee of Ministers, if you had suggested it at the beginning of the term of office, I would still understand. You have a vision, you have a plan, you know what to do. But you in the middle of your term when all your plans have fallen into the water you reach for these measures. This is proof that defenders from these 258 million kunas pay for the incompetence of the Croatian government, the incompetence of the Croatian government to face and that the most important solution to the economic crisis, the financial crisis. You spent two years without any tangible results. However, all indicators are much worse than they were in 2011 when you assumed power. And especially because it hurts every Croatian defender, especially their representatives, that nobody has talked to them about this. When we brought three years ago there, almost four years ago, we had several meetings in the government of the Republic of Croatia with the then Prime Minister with the presence of the Minister of Finance. And it wasn't easy, of course, and we weren't thrilled. It was one of the most difficult measures we have taken in that term, but we have had the strength and openness towards representatives of defense associations to sit together and say we have to go into it. And in the end, we were able to agree on that, reluctantly, of course, no one is pleased when you take 10% of his salary. And now there are no conversations, the Prime Minister is not even thinking of sitting down with representatives of defense associations to discuss the reduction. There wouldn't be anything going on in Vukovar that wouldn't have been delayed for almost a year. Of course there's a problem then. The same case is now re-enacted with this Law on the Reduction of Privileges as you call them often pensions. It's not the way, it's not the way problems should be solved, especially when it comes to those who are the most responsible for the creation of the state, those who paid for the creation of the state with their own lives, their own blood, who have serious consequences of psychic nature and who seek special sensitivity. Especially, my dear Minister, these announcements that this right will soon return are stories for small children when we know all these financial projections, when we know the 2014 Budget, when we know that 17 billion kuna deficits are planned for 2014. The question is how long will it be in 2015, 2016, and the question is with this kind of work when we're going to get into a situation where the government budget deficit is less than 3%. From what I've said, of course, I can't support a law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63072	Thank you, too. Dear Ivan Shuker, MP, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63073	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We are discussing this law at a time when the European Commission has definitely announced that it will take action against Croatia... And it is now evident that this budget that we voted last week in this House is simply no longer drinking water because what came from Brussels is the expenditure side of the budget or the revenue side just don't know where it's going to be taken to this proposed budget has to be cut 3.5 billion kuna next year, and then it was logical if the Government has already to do that with a package of measures. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The other thing, today, unfortunately there were a lot of ugly things and quotes though I think that no matter how difficult and painful this law is that simply given what it refers to, it shouldn't have been like that. However, the last time 10% was reduced and the talks with representatives of the home war associations were suddenly held, it was done about two and a half months before the end of the calendar year in the moments when the budget ended and these talks lasted a month and a few more days and frankly speaking at the beginning no representative of those associations wanted to agree to what was the logical thing. It's hard for anyone who represents one particular association to come before the members of that association and say listen we'll take 10% but talk, talk, talk. In the end, we came to the conclusion that everyone unanimously accepted the measure of the government but within all other measures, and probably now that the government is proposing a package of measures, and that talks with representatives of the home war associations would probably be the same again. Because these people, first of all, Croatia is at heart and then everything after that. However, when proposing this as an isolated measure, I am genuinely interested in when the government will go with the Rebalancing Budget to fit into these criteria that exist in Brussels, so maybe that law should have gone in this framework rather than the way it is and I sincerely hope that in this higher home it will never repeat ugly debates again as it was this afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63074	Replica response, respected representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63075	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague Shuker with you, and I said in my debate that what is a serious shortfall in the adoption of this law is precisely the lack of that communication between the government and the defence population, or representatives, of the president of defense associations. We had several meetings at the time, and at the level of the Prime Minister or Prime Minister, and as far as I know, there were no almost any conversations now, and not even one joint conversation of the defence minister or was, and I don't know. I apologize if he was, but this subject has to be discussed more and more seriously, and I believe that an acceptable solution for both the government and the defenders would be found. They are not defenders against this state, and they cannot, by definition, be against this state and have always been willing to bear a burden for this country. After all, they showed this during the Homeland War but also in the last 23 years, and he is right when he says this is eight times that he is seriously into defence rights and if a man compares now these rights that defenders have in 2013 with the rights they had until 2000 and if he took into account inflation and everything else that happens then I believe would come to an amazing data as much as essentially the defence population removed from their receipts and how badly damaged they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63076	Dear Representative Franco Vidovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63077	Thank you, Your Honor. So, fellow Ilic, you mentioned that some defenders in the name of supplies would think of it as 300 kuna less than we discussed last week, but you also forgot that the minister had committed himself and that the ministry had committed itself to calming the difference. There are not many on the other side of the family that they have and more children will get a larger amount now and it is about compliance with the Social Care Act. As for the objection that we are doing this in the second year of office, so no one happier not to do it at all, believe anyone happier than us. But you did it after two and a half years of office in 2010 and I think that time factor that doesn't matter at all. Look, this whole debate today has been going quite wrong for me because this is a matter of social rights, of clean social rights, of pensions, of social rights issues, not of love for the country, of love for the defenders, of nothing that we have lamented here. And even your argument finally here with this data seemed to me like let's throw in another log and let the fire be bigger. I think it's very sad and that this thing really should be as a responsible politician in this House high-ranking stop and that we should avoid it. I'm saying this you know from what perspective I am sensitized for the problems of Croatian defenders. I am truly sorry about this, but as a responsible politician with a heavy hand, as Djakic said at the end of 2010, I will hardly raise my hand for this law, but I will raise it because I must.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63078	Replica response, respected representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63079	My colleague Vidovic, when you talk about supply, everything I said is true. The law has been abolished. The minister here explained that for the following year he would secure 5 million kuna in reserve and that all those who would receive less would be settled with one-time cash aid. One-time cash aid for them is not a legal right but a good will of the minister and does not mean that if it has provided 5 million kuna in 2014 it will also be provided in 2015. And it's completely different, pal, when you have a legal right or when you expect someone to pay you one-time cash aid. And I said that it's true that those who have a family will through guaranteed monthly compensation get more, but that at least, that most users of supplies are single. So Croatian defenders who live alone, who will actually get 300 kuna less. That 10% reduction in pensions, when it was adopted, was adopted when it began essentially the global economic crisis and when the consequences of the crisis were most severe. And as I said, we've brought in a set of measures, so to speak, which applied, right, to the recovery of the state budget. And this measure is taken after two years of power. When all the countries in the region came out of the crisis, only Croatia remained fat buried in the glare of the crisis and the question is when we will get out of the crisis. And that's important, fellow, the difference between the time it was brought four years ago and the conditions in which it's being brought today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63080	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63081	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, fellow Ivić, yes, it is not the same and it is not possible twice in the same form to participate in the budgeting, participate in the crisis and recession. Why the Croatian defenders, the victims, the prisoners, the missing, the dead, the parents, why them? Why do they have to be subject to 10% reduction again? Why would that population swear it was the last line of defense and it wouldn't be any of it? The Vice-President of the War Veterans Committee and the Mayor of Vukovar Sabo said the rights of the defender will not be reduced, nor will his colleague Damir Rimac at a press conference, not full for a year, there is no way we will allow it. Where are they now? Today they ran away like everyone else who has nothing to say about it. It is clear that this is an attack on Croatian defenders, victims of the Homeland War, and it is clear that there is no basis there and that it will not be the recovery and stabilisation of the budget. It is clear that 303 million kuna is a drop in the sea of what was given in the recovery of only one bank, which was given in the recovery of the shipyard, which was given in various holes without the bottoms that went away forever and which could not be compensated. None of this is objective and nothing is random. Everything happens by pattern. Step on them, give them back, punish them for being irresponsible to us. And if we're responsible, we need to be called, we need to talk, we need to establish a dialogue, we need the Prime Minister to tell you to come to the government, we're going to talk about changes to the law, about reduced your rights, do you have any objections to the work of the ministry, do you have any objections to the government's work? What do you miss? Let's find a solution together. Those words are gone today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63082	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63083	I told my colleague Djakic in his statement that this should not have happened and that the savings that will be made in this state budget will not save the state budget or stabilise the financial situation of the Croatian state. The savings could and had to be sought elsewhere and some of the colleagues, I think that fellow Grubisic talked about it, pointed out that there is room for savings in the state administration, in agencies, in public enterprises, etc. where you could save a lot, a lot more money than 258 million kunas to be saved by this law. It's true that the last line of defense, the prime minister said, was also saying, and I don't know what else has to fall, and I'm afraid the next line will be to fuck when it comes to this population.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63084	Thank you very much. Finally, Minister of Labour and Pension System on behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic, respected Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63085	President-in-Office of the Parliament, here is a long debate, I will be very brief, just to clarify the difference between the law that was passed after two and a half years of the HDZ government's mandate and what is the difference between this law that has now been passed. So, in this law, we exempt members of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, they were incorrectly retired from 10% because they exercise income rights at the level of established budgetary bases in Croatia for the year as well as the previous year in which pension rights are exercised. Therefore, the pension allowance does not comply with the pension insurance rules but rather its height, i.e. the basis, is laid down by the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The peace of regular members of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts stems from working relations and is financed entirely, that is why there are no members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in this law, and it has been in the law since 2010. Also in the 2010 Law, only children without both parents were excluded, we did not exempt all children. And that's 23 million kuna at the level of the year. So much has been denied in the 2010 Law by children of Croatian wartime wartime disabled people. Let's be clear and clean. So in the current bill of law, we exempt all children no matter where or what. And finally, this law was in the Constitutional Court, so the 2010 law was in the constitutional court and the court said it. Thank you very much, I hope you will support the law as we supported you in 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63086	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63087	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, demagogy is so transparent that you absolutely don't have to say anything else. You've been told by the representatives of the victims' associations on the board. You should have learned from that, you should have understood that. Neither Djakic nor Ivić nor Milas nor Shuker told you Ned Balog, said Mrs. Lucia Kober, Mrs. Alvir, to you the President of the Guard brigades, which also concern you, given that officers in this procedure are also covered. You didn't get anything positive, but you still talk about what you did. You punish the parents of the dead, you punish the widows, the prisoners, the missing and the disabled of the Homeland War, you do it, you clearly admit it the second time. She rules Jadranka Kosor now you. We can't take twice what's called a crisis and recession is that it's not for us anymore, we're no longer able and that population to suffer any sanctions, any withdrawals and any penalization. You are saying that you have released children, the family pensions of children of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War without both parents except for the cooperative parts of these pensions that belong to children born or out of marriage to other parents or widows. Read to the end what you wrote, read to the end what is written in the law. Why do you deceive the public?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63088	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63089	So I don't know what text of the law the distinguished representative had in front of him, is in article 4.a, except for what you read in your law "family pensions of children of the deadly Croatian defenders of the Homeland War, family pensions of widows who are co-beneficiaries of these pensions with children of the mortally injured Croatian defenders of a total of 3124 pensions of those children". In your law, you freed only 51 children. We're free, we're not free, but we've admitted that we need to coordinate if we're going to give up doing what we've been doing. And the mines we're talking about not even the defenders, we're talking about pensions over five thousand kunas, and that's what I'm talking about all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63090	Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote on the law when the conditions are met. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the reduction of pensions established or reached under specific rules on pension insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 554. The debate on the text of the law is over, the amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of HSU. I would like the representative of Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63092	The amendment is not accepted by the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families, by defining the concept of damage to the body of the Croatian military disabled from the Homeland War. Under the damage to the body within the meaning of that law, damage is considered to have been caused by early injury or disease, worsening of the disease, or the occurrence of disease in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia or of prisoners in the enemy camp, and are classified according to the determined percentage of damage to the body in 10 groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63093	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the honourable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63094	I'm not going to ask for a vote on this amendment but I'm going to withdraw, but I just want to say one thing that in two laws on the same issue we have double standards. One is called a physical damage assessment and one is called damage to the body. Or I need you to admit that one thing is about the body and the other is about the head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63095	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour and 16 votes against the law on the amendment and amendments of the Law on the reduction of pensions of certain, i.e. according to specific rules in pension insurance in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. And now we will move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Collecting, Processing, Connecting, Using and Exchangeing Data on Receipts and Public Givings by Insurance, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 454 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law, Articles 194 to 202 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63097	Very brief, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. The draft final proposal of the Law on the collection and processing of data on all receipts and public contributions by insurance companies is before the Parliament. So, we already have a second reading ahead of you, we'll be very brief. It's a pattern that unites the current six forms that we fill out in the tax return for Regos. What's the greatest achievement of this is that we've finally united everything into a pattern that we call the JOPPD. And what will bring us next year is that we will finally have information about insurance and other persons so to all those who get paid and all that is paid both tax and non-taxable. Clearly, when we talk about benefits taxed and untaxable, no one thinks we're taxing untaxable receipts with this. They are regulated by law here, and we have what we have been expecting for many years in Croatia to finally have data on how much pay is paid in which branch, what is the amount of salary, and not to estimate it through the DZS, and on the other hand we will improve the DSZ because when it is referred to EUROSTAT, it will have data based on real data, not on the basis of surveys or reports delivered to the DSZ. This law gives authority to the Tax Administration to connect data on health insurance contributions and unemployment contributions with the corresponding payments, and to keep analytical records of the contributions paid by insurance companies so far, which are not subject to analytical records. Regos shall have the authority to connect the data on the contributions of the first and second pillars of pension insurance with the corresponding payments. The system is based on current systems, the centre is tax-based, so it collects all the data and distributes all the information on the basis of the powers in a particular part of the system. In 2015, we'll finally have the right picture in Croatia, and this is one big operation that's a little bit below the radar because it's not so exposed, but this is a major shift in the organization of the state itself and the data that we're going to collect through this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63098	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For discussion we will go to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the HDZ club and the respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63099	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with his associates. So I'm going to say right away that we welcome what's logical is that there are no more thousands of forms than one form, but there's something really not clear to me here. When you look at the text of the law, then the logical thing to do is to propose this law to be the Ministry of Finance, it's the most logical thing because Article 2 says the data-gatherer under this law is the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration and the Central Register. Well, that's the deal in the government. However, this can be said logically following the introduction of the OIB, after informing the state administration. All the processes that took place back 4-5 years, someone more, someone less, and I'm surprised that this bill comes 15 days before the calendar year, the more practically the first salary payments will be submitted immediately after the New Year's Eve, actually the report on this new form. All participants in this process will therefore have to change their programmes. So you simply, depending on whether you send the report via e-mail or you send the report, you actually file a form, but everyone today has an electronic pay account and the logical thing is that they have to change the programs, that they have to be stalking, but I'm saying and that's the government thing. But I'm always very careful about these things. I'm careful from the bad experiences of some of the past. So in 2002 we were a complete business with HZMO as regular employees so was HZMO craftsmen and farmers, and HZO also transferred all the work to the Tax Administration. But unfortunately today, when we talk about these enormous unaccounted for, and you've had the opportunity to hear it from the finance minister, unpaid liabilities date back to the moment when several billion kunas unfortunately remained unrecorded and with interest from 14% to 18% you can imagine how much that amount is growing. That's why I say a man always smokes cold, and that's why here I'm just afraid it's not gonna be good because I think the whole system and the development of that and the development of the OIB is going towards the IRS being a central place. So I'm also talking to analogy about how some institutions in this country have developed, the REGOS has been developed as an institution that will record individual payments both in the first and second pillars. And together with HZMO today-to-morrow when people retire practically to be literally stint solutions to those who need to, without someone running from the firm to the firm and collecting data as it used to be. So that's how the systems were invented, but this is now a little mixed up, mixed up. It would make sense to me, and what I say to be honest with you, I don't understand why the IRS would collect data on individual payments. Tax administration collects data on the total obligation of those who pay the salary and it is recorded at the Tax Administration, but at the Tax Administration if you have payment for the Croatian Parliament, all salaries and employees in the Croatian Parliament, the MPs go to the total amount, the Croatian Parliament is in charge and it is recorded in the Tax Administration, and according to a special form, data are sent to REGOS where individual payments will be registered. And that is why it is not clear to me, HZMO is obliged to provide data on insurance bonds to data collection holders, etc. So, it's that application process, and you, when you report someone to the central register of the OIB system, pulls data into the IRS and the IRS has that information. And that's why the central register is important, and I warned the minister when the Tax Administration Act was passed that the central register unfortunately did not get the place that all users should get, so after all, as mentioned here in this law, it will not get quality information as well as without that central register. I just can't get it, but good. What is still very interesting, therefore, the authorities of the State Administration in charge of State Treasury operations will, in accordance with their competences, provide data on public fees paid to data holders by electronic means. Apparently, someone doesn't know how the Treasury works. One part of the tax divided between units of local self-government and state-level shall be paid into the aggregated and passing account and from that aggregate passing account by the key that has been adopted in advance shall be the discharge of that account to those who are the beneficiaries of that tax, who receive it. All those payments that are exclusively revenues of the state budget are direct revenues from the Treasury and the Treasury, for example, for the Croatian Parliament, I do not understand how it can deliver and to whom it will deliver the information if it receives today's report from the FINA or through whom it receives, about thousands of payments of health and pension contributions as much as anyone has paid. As long as one who has the correct information just types in the OIB, let's say the Croatian Parliament or some company. You, based on that OIB from the IRS, get information about how much they paid in total, what their total obligation is. So that's what I was saying when we talked about the REGOS Act. However, the ministry obviously remained consistent with that. I'm really honest with you, I've also talked to colleagues who work at the Treasury, who do practically this job, and they don't know what data they should be sending. So the key story here is that all the data is collected in the IRS and the IRS is dispersed, and REGOS collects data on individual savings. While the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has a record of those insurance companies that are registered with someone. So, this is one water administrative, and the other keep financial records, and the third foundation of their law is taking care of the collection of revenue from the state budget. Unfortunately, that's not how you put it here legally. Look, I don't know what you think, Mr. Secretary. I, as someone who has come, can say a modest little experience in all this together, at the end of the day OIB is my child and I know exactly what I wanted to accomplish with him I just don't see, because this is the crown of it. This is the crown of the whole story just like when we talked about the Pension Insurance Act, when we talked about the Social Care Act. So it is the crown of all that is expensive when the state administration is networked to simply prevent Croatian citizens from wandering around thousands of tents anymore, but to one place, asking for what they need, to submit a request. He who received the request withdraws all data from the central register from all state institutions and citizens whether within 10, 15 days he gets a solution whether his request is positive or negatively resolved. So, we've come to that stage now given the information. And I really don't know, I think I'd be glad to be reassured. But I don't really understand the function of Article 9. What you get with this form of JPO or whatever it's called, JOPPD is submitted to the IRS. And the IRS took him in, recorded his duty, recorded his payment. And whoever needs the information the Croatian Parliament has paid for the pension total gets it. What? But not by person. But there's no treasure per person either. Look, there's no treasure per person either. There's a sum coming to you in the Treasury, and you've got that sum in the IRS. And so, if you're automatism by mutually signed protocol you can withdraw, then I don't see what you're going to do right now to push the State Treasury that simply has nothing to do with it, it has nothing to do with it. But, well, that's what I said about REGOS. And this here at REGOS I repeat HZMO is an individual administrative recording that someone is employed somewhere and has a pension insurance with that basis and will exercise some rights tomorrow and REGOS financial records payment by the first and second pillars. So there are clear things. But you can't read it out of this law, unfortunately, this is not how you read it. So, in my opinion, Article 9 is too small, it doesn't make any sense. Talk to your colleagues at the Treasury, and you will see that you can practically get no such information. Calling for data. The IRS shall carry out all the tasks referred to in paragraph 1 for all types of public contributions other than public contributions referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. Therefore, it is evident if the REGOS was established to record individual payments, and the IRS cannot record them, because the IRS simply has no established data according to individual payments. Then the logical thing is that the IRS doesn't even deal with it, because the law defines it as being done by REGOS. I'm talking about article 10. Therefore, you, in Article 10, say anything other than the submission referred to in Article 3(3), and paragraph 3 of this Article, in fact, paragraph 3 of this Article, shall carry out the tasks of the paragraph of this article for the following types of public contributions. Contribution to pension insurance based on generational and capitalised individual savings. Well, that's what the REGOS Act says they do. Therefore, it should not be mentioned here. So, according to the fact that there's no confusion, it's important to mention overlap, I think it's a key thing. The IRS therefore collects aggregated data on the total liabilities and the paid part. The Croatian Institute for Pension Administrative Solutions for Doing Something, and REGOS collects individual data by insurance as stated by law. So, based on generation solidarity and the basis of individual capitalised savings, and it simply doesn't have to stand here and when it's removed from the law, then you have a clear law. So why was I saying this, Mr. Minister? Because this law has to be simple. It was simply all the other laws that regulated what the body was doing and this law so I said that the Ministry of Finance was supposed to be the proposing of this law because they were the data-gatherer, they. REGOS only collects one small piece of data, but well, you suggested it. I don't see it now if it's not the Ministry of Finance, I don't see any reason why we shouldn't make this law simple and apply it. So anyone who reads it to know where they can pull the data, where they can get the information. You know very well that the Ministry of Administration has last unfortunately signed that protocol on the download of data. It's exactly a signed protocol that someone and how they can withdraw information so that these data can't be abused, because ultimately these data on, by both types of pension savings are secret and no one is allowed to comment on them publicly. So exactly the protocol we've been prescribed, and it should have simply been mentioned here, and I think these things are done two, three months before the end of the year for the simple reason that everyone can establish the system because this could have been known to happen. Now, if technically it couldn't happen to be at 1.1, it could just change the deadline. And whether the HDZ Club will support this bill. So we support simplification. It's something that's undeniable. After all, it's been on the trail of a policy that's been going on for years. However, I would ask you to consider these remarks, do not look that the opposition club has proposed this to you but rather clean and based on some experience and to make a system that will make everything less painful tomorrow. And I think that should be of interest to us all. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63100	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63101	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Here I as mayor can actually agree with this in one part that it may have taken a little early to come up with a proposal of this law that we all get ready together but since a number of educations and presentations have already been done in the Tax Administration system we are as units of local self-government but all accounting agents are certainly already ready since 1.01. start to apply this law. So, on the final proposal of the Law on Collection, Processing, Connecting, Using and Exchange of Data on Receipts and Public Payments by Insurance, here is actually not much to talk about, except, of course, the outstanding advantages that it brings in the introduction of a unique form of so-called ‘Secretary’. and already accepted in the accounting circles of the JOPPD forms. This is a new form for the collection of data in the total income obtained by a single taxpayer and the income of the natural persons, the accounting and the tax on income and taxes paid, the tax on income and the obligation to contribute which the accounting bonds are obliged to account for and pay and inform the Tax Administration thereof. The most frightening newspaper is that, for the purpose of data collection, in the overall receipts achieved in the JOPPD form, certain non-taxable receipts will also be shown. Travel expenses, rewards, social benefits and the like. But of course here's the minister said it wouldn't actually serve to tax but simply to collect data. Here, in fact, the current situation has led to the collection of these data through different forms, and often, in fact, the same data have been collected that could not be confronted and checked for possible non-compliances created in such separate data collection. This law actually puts together a pooled collection of data on all receipts and public administrations, which should ultimately be a step in a safer, more meaningful, cheaper and faster work of the administration. I agree that this crown is actually the networking of all institutions and that this is actually the highlight of the work that has started since the introduction of the first e-mail actually into the government until the introduction of the OIB and all networking of actually all the data that is being conducted in the state system, and all this is actually on the trail of this Directive Viviane Reding ONE Stop SHOP to allow everyone to access certain data more easily in one place, i.e. that the state ultimately has complete and unique data. I have already noted in fact that I am also in conversation with people on the ground and who are dealing with accounting, in fact, mostly faced with this question of whether they will be able to prepare themselves with January 1st to process through this form. However, I am pleased that the IRS has also done a number of educations and that a number of presentations, practical examples, are already available on the Internet, in which the form is being filled out. And I also have to admit that many people who deal with software have prepared well and already have prepared applications that will automatically fill these patterns correctly and without errors and thus will be significantly facilitated by the job of accounting employees. What I would like to point out is that I hope, in fact, that, in this way, in a unique collection of data and a whole set, in fact, many of the personal data contained in this form will be safer in this way and that citizens will also be more sure that their data are well, carefully and in accordance with the law. Not to go any further, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63102	Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected representative of Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63103	I also assumed that you would be in favour of this legislative proposal, so I don't think we'll be against it, but it seems to me that all of this is expensive I would say this after we introduced after JMBG, so we introduced the OIB through whom it could have been two, three years later while stalking this OIB to find out everything. I've said before in a debate that when I come to the IRS, I'll file a tax report saying that that clerk typed and said you forgot since court, you've earned me no money on some 500 kuna art, so go get that application. So you know exactly what you've had since your tax returns. Now we have a new kind of let's say some new JOPPD is as a data that's in the Ministry of Finance's Information System of the Tax Administration and REGOS. Don't you think it's simple that to use all this requires a new administrative procedure again, maybe even new people to bring it in, introduce it, etc. And in the article, you have some other kind of RSM pattern, ID1 and I don't know what. Do you think it increases all the expensive administration so I don't say red tape, etc.? Although we had both REGOS and the IRS and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of our Minister Mrsic etc. I don't know, it just seems like we're pecking data together. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63104	Replicate response, Honored Representative Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63105	Dear colleague... Therefore, it is precisely about simplifying data processing and it is about removing these five, six IDs,ID1 forms and this pattern which has been processed in the rego and introducing a unique form and thus reducing administrative pressure on officials along with the introduction and these computer applications that will automatically draw certain data. [[Speaker not enabled]] The work of the administration will be facilitated and reduced and I think that everything Mr. Shucker said about the introduction of the OIB all leads to a more complete system of government and ultimately and finance as well as complete data.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63106	Thank you very much. Minister Miranda Mrsic, the esteemed minister, has the closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63107	Your Honor, Mr. President. I would not agree that this is the last-minute law, so he's only formally coming before the Parliament but the preparations for this law have already started at the beginning of this year from 1.7. The tax administration's page has been published by the rules and already testing this pattern in large companies, small companies, craftsmen, so we're already testing the system so that 1.1. he goes on. Therefore, the Tax Administration has made a major step forward because it has also carried out counseling, therefore, as far as the implementation of this system itself is concerned, there should be no problem for it. This law also serves to clearly say in one place that the data is united, that they are located in one place, that no one thinks that then one day these data is divided into 4, 5 forms again than simply this is the standard that we have achieved as we have achieved the OIB standard and with this we achieve a high standard and what we will have in 2015. With this law, we also define the exchange of data, we establish a legal basis for the exchange of data between one and the other, so between the tax office, Regos, the Pensions Office, the Health Insurance Office, and clearly that the data will be distributed by those for whom each body has public authority and there is no problem in that things will be seen, that someone will not be allowed to see the data. As far as Article 9th of Article 9 is concerned, when you look at it, the Honorable Representative Shucker looks at it for himself, on the side of someone who's in the IRS, that's what it might look like. However, the system has been fully automated, so from the state treasury information that certain funds have arrived and that these funds will then be allocated to individual users. So, they're not going to transfer any money or anything, this is a system that's fully electronic. Therefore, there will be no problems for the system to function. What the IRS has done is step forward, so far we have data not only about the taxpayer as a Parliament but also how much we will have to say about the Government and how much Miranda Mrsic has to pay, how many contributions he has to make, how much he has to pay, how much he has to pay, how much he pays for Croatia Rijeka Chamber, etc. Therefore, all the data will be in one place. I hope you will support this law because it is something that brings a great leap of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63108	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63109	Well, I'm sorry the minister doesn't know I'm the minister who set up the treasure. So, I know how the treasure works, unfortunately, Minister, you are now, don't be angry, and I wouldn't really want to hurt you, but I've shown ignorance. The treasurer will send data, what data? So you have the exact key by which the income is shared from the aggregated and passing account where the total income is paid, say income tax and the exact law on the financing of units of local self-government, you have how much income tax depending on decentralised functions and how much it belongs outside the unit of local self-government, and that's why so-called. The key is how much of the 100 percent belongs to that local self-government unit and how much does it belong to the county. So you've always known that. But here when I was talking about the treasure I was talking about this part that you're talking about, and that's the payment records, so it's the IRS, not the Treasury, because the IRS records the obligation of someone, let's say the Croatian Parliament to, for example, pay the pensions for the Mirovinski system first, it has the IRS, it has no Treasury, the Treasury has a total payment with that basis, and it has nothing to send the data. So it's about that. And second of all, I think you've made a mistake, Mr. Minister, the IRS couldn't publish the rules because the rule can only be passed when the law is passed, and as far as I know, we haven't passed this law yet. So no one under this law could make a rule but something I didn't say and I just skipped. You should have put out of the law a lot of provisions concerning the submission of those IDDs and those other forms because, with the degree of this law, the obligation to submit these forms ceases and I did not see that the Tax Administration or the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute have submitted amendments to the law that these forms no longer have to be submitted. And in this law you have not been defined to cease these provisions. So you have to change those laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63110	Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63111	The Regulation was published under the Income Tax Act, therefore, you can, by virtue of that law, be made public under that law. Based on this rule, the system is designed. If necessary, we will re-publish and rule-based and this law, but the system will work on 01.01.2014 and that is the most important and important thing for the service that we provide to citizens to be at another higher level, and that means that since 2015 there will be no more tax returns, no more running to the post at midnight, reporting, therefore the lossful applications will automatically generate the registrations of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by the basis of this JPPD form. Those who are employees clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63112	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, one and the other. It's all taken, written down, we'll see. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public provision by insurance companies, second reading, P.Z. No. 454. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of Minister Miranda Mrsic's proposal to be shown about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63114	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63115	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Please state who's in favor of the final bill? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 89 votes in favour and 10 votes against the law P.Z. No.454 together with the amendments accepted. and now we move on to - Final draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 440; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law, Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received a report from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63117	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The aim of this law is to increase the employability of persons with disabilities and create conditions for their equal participation in the labour market, primarily by regulating the right to professional rehabilitation, defining measures and incentives for their employment. That's why we're passing this law. Compared to the bill adopted in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the final bill contains certain amendments and additions. In order to comply with the EU Council Directive of 27 November 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, the final proposal for a law defines the concept of reasonable adjustment, as well as the provoking forms of reasonable adaptation in the field of work and employment of persons with disabilities in terms of job adaptation, working time, professional supervision and others. Also in order to comply with the new Law on the Single Body of Art, the final draft law contains new provisions governing the delirquent and design of the Institute for the Skills of Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, as this institution as a legal successor to the Professional Rehabilitation Fund for Persons with Disabilities will take over the funds, rights and obligations, jobs and employees of the Fund. In addition to the current obligations that this fund has had, we extend the institution with large obligations that will be related to skills and deliver findings and opinions on the basis of which the rights in the field of social care, pension insurance, health, education, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, the protection of war and civilian victims of war, as well as other areas in which certain skills rights are exercised. In this sense, the transitional and final provisions of the final bill are attributed to the obligations and deadlines necessary for that re-shuffle, namely for the first time in one place in Croatia, in one institution we will have skills for the entire system of art in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, for the sake of the clarity and accuracy of the norm, appropriate corrections have been made to the provisions governing the procedure of professional rehabilitation, the quota system for employment and the integrated and protective workshops as specific forms of employment of persons with disabilities. Thus, in the final draft law, the basis for the implementation of the professional rehabilitation procedure is specified in a way that the service provider and the professional rehabilitation centre conclude a contract on the conditions and manner of implementation of this procedure. Any doubt about the calculation of the quota is corrected in such a way that if the calculation of the quota does not represent an integer, the value of 0.5% is rounded to a smaller number, and the value above 0.5% including 0.5% is rounded to a larger number. Amendments to the provisions on integrated and protective workshops clarify the difference between persons with disabilities employed in those workshops. In fact, it is explicitly stated that in integrated workshops, people with disabilities who cannot be employed on the autonomous labour market are employed while in protective workshops people with disabilities who cannot be employed in integrated workshops. So those who need an even higher level of support. It is also explicitly prescribed that funds for the operation of integrated and protective workshops are provided by founders. I hope this law will get the support of all clubs because it is one of the steps towards equating skills in the Republic of Croatia, and not that it happens to us that for the same physical damage we have in the system different degrees of disability and on the other hand that it will allow us to get as many persons with disabilities back into the labour market and start them from their four walls to come and socialize, and then clearly make income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63118	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the HNS Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63119	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would say for a start that this is about a really important law because it regulates an important right and it is the right to work as a fundamental human right. For people with disabilities, the right to work is a prerequisite for achieving independence from the help of others, the possibility of making decisions on their own and independent life in the community. We know that under today's conditions of high unemployment, that is, the conditions of increased labour supply for disabled persons are in an additional difficult situation. This, in a negative sense, is contributed by the fact that society as a whole is under-informed and sensitive for the needs and rights of sensitive groups. In addition, there is a problem of long-term unemployment, often inadequate educational structures and insufficient working experience of the disabled. The improvement of this situation is the integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market indeed requires coordinated inclusion of all segments of society from social care and pension insurance systems, health systems and extremely important alignment of education policy with labour market needs. This would especially point out because I believe that an effective and long-term person with disabilities can be more and better integrated into the labour market only if education policy is directed in the long term. Croatia is a party to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and as such is obliged to respect all provisions of that Convention, but to allow all persons with disabilities equal participation in work and employment. Professional rehabilitation is of course a prerequisite for employment but so far regulation of procedures through two regulations and two different systems has led to a lack of quality professional rehabilitation. No institutions for professional rehabilitation were established, no adequate system of art and there were adequate institutional and financial frameworks for the implementation of rehabilitation. All together has proved to be quite inefficient and difficult to implement with the extreme low level of involvement of people with disabilities in the world of work. It is important to say that despite the recent years, there has been a rise in people with disabilities, and there is certainly an important fact that the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities since 2007 is constantly paying incentives for employers to hire and maintain employees. But of course there's a long way ahead, and this law is a good starting point. What I think should be particularly stressed is that this law regulates the right to professional rehabilitation, measures and activities that it includes and, of course, the bodies responsible for the implementation of rehabilitation. Furthermore, it is extremely important to define the quota employment system of persons with disabilities in such a way as to prescribe a commitment for the real sector, of course, depending on the total number of employees and activities that employers carry out, and to pay non-employment benefits because without the prescribed sanctions, implementation is always questionable, and on the other hand, additional incentives for employment above the set quota are foreseen which should also give positive results. The law, not to list now, really regulates everything of importance for the employment of persons with disabilities and I believe that they will establish one quality in a uniform system of professional rehabilitation and improve the conditions for employment of persons with disabilities which, of course, greatly affects their and social inclusion but overall increase in quality of life. But for the true increase in the quality of life of people with disabilities, a comprehensive change is important in society and local communities and at national level and when we make budgets and when we make laws and decisions and when we do something and build something. This last one I would especially like to point out is that we have a lot of room for advancement here. We need to think about barriers when we build both houses and roads, especially institutions, colleges, sports facilities, etc. Here I would like to boast a little bit that the town of Varazdin this year received the EDEN award as the most accessible Croatian city. This is usually a European prize that we have entered on a map of European destinations that enable people with disabilities to access not only tourist destinations in the city but key institutions, companies, organisations, theatres, palaces, etc. We have put this in the city of Varazdin as a matter of priority, so we have adapted all roads and footsteps in the wider city centre and now we are moving towards settlements and we are taking special care of it in the construction of new facilities, but we are thus adapting all existing facilities in the city. Here's to this as a little depression, but I think it's important that all our cities and municipalities should take care of it. And here is perhaps a few suggestions that I have received from disabled associations, so the proposal is that it is clearer to define that the founders are obliged to provide means for the establishment and operation of integrated workshops and protection workshops, Article 18 of Article 20, in order to more precisely define Article 7 of the quota system compensation or to define what it is intended for and which institution it can dispose of. And here's the bottom line, I think it's a good thing that this law went into two readings because it was important and it was enough time to have a quality debate and to consider all the constructive proposals and remarks. The law contains important changes and I believe that it will bring significant improvements to the employment of people with disabilities and thus bring us all closer together to a fairer society and therefore the HNS club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63120	Thank you very much. SDP club of Croatia and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with his associates. The SDP club will support this law as it goes in a positive direction, towards improving and creating equal rights before hiring persons with disabilities on the labour market, primarily by regulating the right to professional rehabilitation and by defining measures and incentives for their employment. Few data, according to the Croatian Register of Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, are registered about 12% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia as persons with disabilities. A total of 2.2% of the unemployed people registered in the Institute’s records were registered in the HZZ at the end of September 2013. Labour and income are a prerequisite of course for the independent and independent life of everyone, especially with people with disabilities. data in the structure of the unemployed by age show that the largest number of unemployed is precisely between 20 and 29 years of life and that... 32.14%. However, it is a very devastating result, or problem, which is that of them is 33.57% of people with disabilities but without work experience. The work of people with disabilities provides additional security, in fact ensuring it for everyone, especially them, a sense of satisfaction, a sense of belonging, a sense of value, a benefit for themselves, a family and a community in general. Of course, as soon as it comes to people with disabilities and today is an opportunity to repeat what the colleague was saying, and these are barriers, unfortunately, here I congratulate the City of Varazdin if he was able to do all this, and he probably also got a reward for it and we have to strive for all local self-government leaders, we have to strive for such rewards because the problem of course is to solve access in public institutions, not to tell kindergartens and schools for people with disabilities. Of course, we're always full of empathy, but we're wondering if we're all doing what we feel. When we look at people with disabilities, then we really need to start looking at them not only for people who belong to the health care system, but for those who have the same rights of the same needs and obligations as all of us, but with the emphasis that they have to fight further for them through life and in which they need help, they need help from us. Let's get back to the law. The aim of the adoption is actually to increase the employability of people with disabilities and create conditions for their equal participation in the labour market. I repeat, first of all by regulating the right to professional rehabilitation, which is actually the subject of this law. When we ask what are the reasons for the difficult employment of people with disabilities, they are multiple. One of them is the lack of information among the disabled, as well as those who can give them a job. Then there's still a lack of sensitivity somewhere because we know it hasn't gotten much better on that plan, so we have to say that we're under-sensitized. Then the inadequate educational structure that has been mentioned before is the long-term unemployment, however, this long-term unemployment is very dangerous because it leads to a significant loss of acquired knowledge and skills, thus returning backwards. In order to increase the employment of persons with disabilities, the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund has been constantly paying incentives for employers since 2007 and we see that this is slightly increasing in fact. People are interested, but again and again, we can't be satisfied. This law establishes a quality and uniform system of professional rehabilitation, thus creating conditions for the employment of persons with disabilities, which will actually act directly on their involvement and overall increase in quality of life. Speaking of which, I'll mention a few articles, for example. Article 7 establishes the form of employment of persons with disabilities in the open market. We have paragraph 3, so how can we actually help people with disabilities? We have a job without support and without support and in this way actually because it is fully qualified to work in a particular workplace. Then if we have financial support then these persons are hired with support, if this is professional support then they are hired with support. Of course, this is all done on the basis, or according to the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation. If financial support and professional support are needed, then we say that we work with support and support. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Article 19 determines who are the founders of the integration workshops and how those workshops are set up and of course the means are prescribed for the operation of those workshops. Article 15 states that the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation is established for the purpose of organising and performing professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. It also determines who are the founders of the centre and that it can also establish exactly an integral workshop and a protection workshop. Positive movements can be said to exist, but this can be linked to the increased investment of all labour market stakeholders. Persons with disabilities, however, continue to find it difficult to employ. In order to address the difficulties of employment and this law, changes and additions that are important to highlight have been arranged. For example, the concept of reasonable adjustment is defined, as well as the appropriate forms of reasonable adaptation in the field of work and employment of persons with disabilities in terms of job adjustment, working time, professional supervision and others. Also in order to comply with the new Law on the Single Body of Art, which is very important, new provisions are governed by the delirious and design of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The Institute as a legal follower of the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities will assume the funds, rights and obligations of the Fund's jobs and employees. The amendment of the provisions on integrated and protective workshops explains the difference between persons with disabilities employed in these workshops. It is prescribed that integrated workshops employ people with disabilities who cannot be employed in the open labour market while in protective workshops people with disabilities who cannot be employed in integrated workshops are employed. So those who need an even higher level of support. It is also explicitly prescribed that both workshops are actually provided by founders. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, in order to speed up and enable people with disabilities to be a full part of our community, it is really up to us to continue to work, align and improve the law on that path. And here's another time the SDP club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63122	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The Croatian Democratic Community Club and Honored Representative Martina Banic and Honored Representative Sumrak Đurdjica are on their way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63123	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees that all Croatian citizens have equal rights and therefore the right to work. Human rights of persons with disabilities are of particular importance to the state and community whose responsibility is to care for those who need it. We have heard that there are currently more than 520 thousand people living in Croatia with disabilities. This accounts for a total of 12% of the population, of which 60% are men and about 40% of women. The maximum number of people with disabilities is more than 50% at the age of 19 to 64, while in the age group 65+ is about 45% of people with disabilities. Persons with disabilities are not the job of institutions. They're our neighbors, workmates, school or college. The state must provide them with mobile teams of experts, assistants, removing architectural barriers. But it's up to us to open ourselves up to different abilities and accept them in our midst. Obstacles resulting from the exclusion of persons with disabilities, i.e. the violation of their rights, are very often legislation and political decisions. Unfortunately, people with disabilities have not yet been identified as a group of citizens who are making up our strength, who are the power of our society. They should therefore be able to work, to educate, to be a resource of society and to feel useful. It should be ensured that people with disabilities participate in community life in different ways, become the target group for which democracy is useful and useful for democracy. Currently, in Croatia, the burning problem is the growing unemployment, the labour market practically does not exist, and when it comes to people with disabilities, the situation is even worse. In September 2013 The Croatian Employment Service registered 6404 people with disabilities as 2% of the total number of unemployed in Croatia. The largest number of unemployed persons with disabilities is located in the Zagreb area of about 20.5% of the total number of unemployed persons with disabilities. Professional rehabilitation is a prerequisite for increasing the employability and social inclusion of people with disabilities, which is not possible without the flexibility of the education system that will be able to match the opportunities and abilities of people with disabilities with the needs and dynamics of the labour market. Their employment benefits persons with disabilities and the social community. More factors affecting the position of persons with disabilities in the field of employment than the willingness of the community to equally accept persons with disabilities, from the flexibility of the education system, from the need for interdisciplinary access and networking of the interests of different stakeholders to changes in attitudes and employers, but also from persons with disabilities themselves. One of the problems with employment is education. The situation is pretty bad here. The figures show that 67% of people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are without completion or only with a finished primary school. 25% have completed high school, 3% completed higher or higher, and 5% has completed special education. These are the devastating data to be imagined. If we look at the employment rate of people with disabilities in the EU, then the situation is next. The employment rate of persons with disabilities in the EU is 50%, and in some Member States there are quotas that regulate the employment of persons with disabilities. For example, in Austria and the Czech quota is 4%. It refers to all the companies. In Belgium 2.5% in the state sector and this level is not achieved. In France, companies with 20 and more employees 6%, and in Germany for the same level of employment 5%. In Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, the Netherlands, Sweden or Great Britain, such quotas do not exist at all. Based on the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities until 2014. Croatia should have one disabled person on 25 civil service employees, 4% and 5% since 2017. Data from the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment by November 2012 suggest that in recent years an increasing number of employers benefit from the support resulting from the employment of people with disabilities. That's very good. Fellow Members and colleagues, it is necessary as a prerequisite for the employment of persons with disabilities to raise awareness of the possibilities of working and employment of disabled persons, to remove barriers of each type from architectural and to those who are in the heads of potential employers. Persons with disabilities cannot be equal to others if they are socially excluded, if education does not allow them social inclusion through the possibility of employment as a prerequisite for taking responsibility for their own life. And if we don't provide them with the independence and space for personal development based on their best interests. Thank you. She's going to be a colleague of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63124	Yes, the second part of the esteemed representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63125	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates, Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is a colleague Banić who has really given an excellent introduction to this debate and we have been given the final proposal of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Of course, this law has been passed in order to increase employability and equal participation of persons with disabilities on the labour market. First of all, we at the HDZ Club welcome that some remarks have been adopted and incorporated into this law, but we also believe that the remarks sent to this law by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and related to those objections have to be respected and we hope that you will also reconsider until the vote of the amendment. I'll just go through a few articles. Article 4 of the right to professional rehabilitation is acquired by a person with disabilities who has been identified by the competent authority of art by the remaining working capacity, and the question is then in this regard and what about reduced or part-time work capacity. What we have in Article 5, I could say is that this is a nomoch of the right to professional rehabilitation of unemployed people, and it should also be the job of persons with disabilities who decide in the first degree in the field of establishment of the Croatian Employment Service unit in which an unemployed person with disabilities is registered as unemployed. What we're going to praise is what my colleague Banic was talking about, and these are quotas. When it comes to quotas, it is always referred to as something not good, but here I would think that the quota is a tool and that the quota is very good and I hope that these quotas will be respected and that in some ways we will actually involve persons with disabilities in a life where they can survive more independently. Because what I'm trying to say, and my colleague said before me, of course we can't do people with disabilities discrimination in a way or say here's the situation, so no one has to deal with it, and people with disabilities, when on the other hand we don't respect their remarks in certain laws at all. For example, yesterday we had before us the Social Care Act and the Shadow Association gave 7, which is an association that represents children with developmental difficulties, gave 7 remarks on the law. None is included, nor is it explained why it is not included. And now I'm going to go back to Article 8 and paragraph 4 here is that too many of those who have entered that quota system are listed here both students and students. For example, students may be able to but only those who are in practice. We still have a series of objections, but I won't be long now. What I would like to say is, for example, Article 37 of the task carried out, i.e. in the first paragraph, skills should be written in order to determine the disability in the first and second stages, etc. what's going on so that in reality you know what it's all about. Article 39 says that the office has a director, and now it's complete for me, and for us in our club, it's completely unclear, and probably not, it says that the director is appointed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 4 years on the basis of a public tender, and the deputy directors and assistant directors are re-appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the competent minister for a duration of 4 years, but it doesn't seem to require any competition. Now I don't know if the government got confused because it's common for them to name directors without competitions and then something like that. But right now, I don't know the directors with the competition, and all the other deputy directors and assistants are out of competition. I wouldn't really be longer, there's a lot more speakers. We've given our amendments, they're really backed up with everything the D.A.'s been looking for, and so is the G.I.A.'s Association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63126	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It's HSU's turn and Honorable Vishny Fortuna's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63127	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. First of all, I would say that this law of the HSU club will support and I would say that professional rehabilitation is a basic prerequisite for the employment of persons with disabilities and their social inclusion, and the implementation of social rehabilitation in the present way has resulted in a poor and unquality system that has not had the right effect of hiring people with disabilities. As professional rehabilitation was implemented under two laws now, the Pension Insurance Act and the applicable Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities lacked individual access to each person with disabilities and the result was that systematic professional rehabilitation practically did not exist. Of course, there was neither an adequate institutional and financial framework for the implementation of this professional rehabilitation nor a real system of skills. Therefore, it is no wonder that low employment is actually a person with disabilities especially in the open labour market. But perception of the possibilities and abilities of disabled people is slowly changing and we become aware that people with disabilities have very much the knowledge and skills that they can contribute to their independence as well as to the community in which they live. Until now, however, not all conditions have been met that people with disabilities can really and quality and without obstacles to employment. Although it was once thought that a person with disabilities is the simplest to actually move to social margins, leave them in a welfare system or send them to retirement, this government has shown that for the most vulnerable persons not only on the labour market but generally in society creates good foundations and basic preconditions for full integration into social life. This law is the result of a general consensus between those most concerned and that is why we Assembly representatives here also have the responsibility for people with disabilities to unanimously support and create conditions for quality, professional rehabilitation, which will contribute to the easier employment of people with disabilities and allow them to either get involved in the labour market for the first time or to return to work from which they left before obtaining disability. Although this law at the time of the crisis and recession we are still in may not seem to be the most important thing in the world it is important to realise that this is an extremely big step for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. It is not necessary to ignore the fact that the employment of persons with disabilities will contribute to a healthier and more satisfied society as a whole, as well as the return of works of resources to the state budget that have been allocated to professional rehabilitation, job adjustment and the promotion of employment, as these persons will now be more economically independent to enable them to increase their consumption. The results of this law can only be positive because the timely inclusion of persons in professional rehabilitation will reduce the costs of pension and health insurance just as well as the social care systems that have been most burdened so far. This law has several key things that should certainly be singled out and commended. This is also quota employment in the real sector, which will allow a greater number of people with disabilities to work, a replacement quota that includes students with developmental disabilities and students with disabilities in the practice of rehabilitation employers in the practice of employers, persons with disabilities whose regular education is an employer's scholarship and others. Cash compensation for not fulfilling the obligation of quota employment to stimulate the employer, by introducing a cash reward if they employ more persons with disabilities than the prescribed quota, or if they employ persons with disabilities and are not bonds of quota employment, and by establishing both clearer criteria and standards for the establishment and operation of a centre for professional, i.e. the Constitution for Professional Rehabilitation. On this occasion, I would also like to point out what is subject to the regulation on pension insurance but is encouraged by this law and the parents may have held the most in place to direct the child towards work and employment. Therefore, I would like to thank the persons with disabilities who are users of the rights, here on behalf of the Croatian Party's club, the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, for accepting the observation of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Pensioners and supplementing the assessment of the situation with data on the total amount of funds, incentives for employment and maintenance of persons with disabilities paid to employers by the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund from 2007 until the end of August 2013. This is very important because it must be seen how much has been spent to encourage the employment of people with disabilities in recent years. I would also like to point out that the number of regulations related to the law is reduced, which is very important because it will now be much easier to apply and much easier to comply with the rules which were too much and now that number has been reduced. Although the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Pensions Party also made an observation that the Fund should have original incomes, we accept the argument that it is not possible to adopt this in accordance with the provisions of the Budget Act. I therefore fully support the exchange of information with the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration in order to see the total amount of funds paid from the base of the cash compensation for non-fulfilment of quota employment and better planning of incentives. And in the end, I would conclude that the unanimous support of this law is our duty and obligation to as many as 12% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that fact no one can ignore, no matter what sides we come from, whether we have ever met with disability before in our immediate surroundings or whether we are fully healthy and think that we will never be able to depend on another in this way, we must never again allow people with disabilities to be on the margins of political thinking and society. That is why we need to correct the injustices that have become more and more correct from year to year, from day to day and which have been applied by persons with disabilities and we need to send a clear message to all the citizens of the Republic that we want to create a society of equal opportunities for all. I repeat once again that the Croatian party of pensioners will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63128	Thank you, too. It is up to the HDSSB Club and the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We won't joke about this anymore. Equal chances for all as fellow Fortuna says just before and in fact stems from the experience of EU countries as it says here to encourage the employment of disabled persons have proved particularly important the introduction of an adequate quota system that we mention today. Someone here says it's 1 out of 25, I'd say 1 out of 25 employees or I'd think more easily in relations 4%, 4 out of 100 than 1 out of 25, 25 was never some figure that was significant, yes. Four out of a hundred or four percent is what should be pursued in our society, our country to have the employment of disabled people with professional rehabilitation, whether they are unemployed or still to be rehabilitated, professional rehabilitation, after having suffered a certain injury and someone with disabilities remains, and then a professional rehabilitation is carried out and returned to a job that actually suits him and belongs to him according to professional rehabilitation. People who are employed persons with disabilities are kept by an eyewitness. In Croatian society we have, here we are constantly increasing that figure, there were before the talk of about 400-450 thousand, today we are talking about a figure of 500-520 thousand, which would be about 12%, 10-12% in the total population of the Republic of Croatia. About how important it is, not only is it important for people who are without disabilities employment, including, social inclusion, we can only imagine how important it is for a person who has the disability to be both employed and socially involved in all flows in society, in employment, in all that one actually, I would say that the right to work and work is what makes human dignity and then the dignity of a person with disabilities is actually only when you and can find a job, and a job that probably very large most of these 500 thousand wants. In this legislative proposal and what is interesting to me is that here are these violation provisions for fines from 5000 to 30,000, punishing employers, or legal persons, says if during employment there is no advantage for a person with disabilities, and under the same conditions, that is to say, the conditions that a person submits to the employer, if they are the same then has the advantage of an employer. This fine, I'd say, and God doesn't know how big and how big, but what happens later in paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 of the law is said, these are the means. Funds of special purpose, i.e. funds that are allocated from the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, i.e. all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to persons with disabilities if they are targeted in the wrong direction, if taken, and not employed by a person with disabilities, if not used, and run for such funds and so on, to say, manipulations that can be achieved with these special means of special purpose. What's already mentioned here in article 39, it's really not good, I'm not going to be bad, I'm going to find a catch like this right now, I've spilled quite a bit of it today, so it's really interesting here, so maybe the Minister later will tell us that the Deputy Director and Assistant Director of the Institute appoints the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister responsible for working on a time of four years, doesn't say whether it's in competition or without competition or how. And as Director of the Institute, the Director of the Institute is appointed on the basis of the Government of the Republic of Croatia’s tender, i.e. the Minister responsible for Labour. On skills, the 1st and 2nd stages of Article 37 of the Procedures for the exercise of rights in the field of social care, etc., it all writes. I'd only look back at those benefits that the disabled receive, and that's really, I'm looking back at, and I have a friend of one, a neighbor who's blind, which is completely blind, so 100% because of diabetes, so let's be clear that this disease has led to total blindness, and I think his fee is 650 kuna, as far as I know. And that's what it really is, I'd say less than in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has about 450 converting marks, so about 1800 kuna, in Serbia also about 2,000 kuna, in Slovenia it's about 3000 kuna, in Croatia it's that disability fee, for a blind, the total blind person is 650 kuna. That's how it's been going for years. It's really not to say criminally little. And for what blindness can mean at all to a man who can't see his grandkids or his relatives, or the sun, or the moon, or the day, or anything. Let's just imagine, just move on to the situation that we are. Everything's on the side, it can be deafness and deafness, and I don't know what, but blindness is 100%, I think it's really catastrophic. The HDSSB club, I said we would not be bad, we will accept it, and the law bears the E mark, so it is in line with all the directives and all the others from the EU that have already regulated it and it works well in Europe, so I hope that it will also be in the Republic of Croatia and the HDSSB club will be for this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63130	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable representative, Đurjica Sumrak, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63131	Thank you very much. Here's just one sentence, and that's what I forgot to say in my debate, you talked about article 2, and you talked about hiring people with disabilities and punishing an employer. However, it is right to ask the Advocate General to introduce articles in this article 9 that are in the Law on Employment in the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, because let's say what you said will be punished, yes, but it will not fix anything compared to the person who competed for the job, so the employer will be punished, and this will not get a job. That's what I wanted to say just because...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63132	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63133	Comrade Sumrak, when there was an affair in writing the findings of a disability doctor not to say false, although someone likes to tell a con man what Shuker said, or punished doctors also got jail sentences. But the consequences of their work have not been sanctioned, they have remained disabled. Likewise here, it should be introduced into the legal proposal that he must follow the legal proposal to hire him, and the one he received must be fired. But it's not written here, so it's only a fine and nobody gets bit by a donkey wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63134	Thank you very much. We are moving on to an individual debate of representatives for 10 minutes, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63135	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I need to say something about this law and the whole system. No, not special needs are quite normal needs, Comrade Boro, you will see for yourself that this is the case, but some of the things that happen in your life I think it's worth sharing with colleagues and colleagues sitting here. I'm going to argue maybe it hasn't been said today that we're not here with this final bill in some new undefined area that this system existed and was founded in 2002 with changes from 2005 and the system has a pretty good perspective. Having a system of professional rehabilitation and employment without possible strategy and concepts, that's another story, without strictly defined goals, another story again, without general social solidarity and sensitivity towards people with disabilities, it's a third story again, but all together make up one negative result. I am very proud of an institution called Tekop Nova is actually a workshop for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people in Pula and I know that it was quite correct to do business that out of the bankruptcy of such a former firm were made assumptions and was given a founding role for the establishment of such a company and I know that for a time I was in the management bodies of that company as a unionist and what was eventually a representative but of course without any compensation because there is only a lot of work to do, give yourself, in some way to engage to create people who are weaker in the labour market certain assumptions that can create good things that provide them with life. What I've been fighting for most in my life is to awaken the interest of the local community and the environment to give them the job. No money, money wasn't a problem, but they didn't want to live to help the county, the city, the union that was there, the grant funds they wanted a job because they were aware that they could 2/3 of the necessary funds for one normal profit themselves. Now, there was a problem, because they're in the process of sewing working suits for utility companies, the biggest problem was, everyone was getting out that the bonds are public procurement, that they can't be ordered directly, that there's all the power of the problem, but when that fog got clear, then it's obvious that they can be ordered if they want to. So I expect that even after these changes in the system because we have previously had a system of contributions, we now have certain quota employment or non-employment payments, and it is certainly best if disabled people can join the world of work on the open labour market as best help and care in this other activity. That's certainly all we need to get to, and until we get to that, we need integration workshops, we're going to need protection workshops, we may need these centers, we may need something we've had before in the big companies of the protection workshop. But I think the system opens open and there are assumptions that all of this can be developed as much as possible. I say again, I repeat the money wasn't a problem. All these years, you've contributed a lot more funds, that you and you wanted more than so to place, you didn't have any projects for. As a result, much less resources have been spent precisely because of the lack and strategy and concepts of the development of this activity than what has been chosen through the contributions. So, of course, this is one new system, the only thing that I personally resent is that we have released all responsibility, it can be in line with all the European Convention, it is my personal position that we have freed any responsibility of small employers to participate in the costs of professional rehabilitation because they are also creating persons with disabilities and there are possible injuries to work and disability and everything else, so it's not quite ok. The rules are one thing and the question of justice is whether it has to be so. Of course I wish you'd accepted this second amendment, I know we made a mistake in one of the institutions because we addressed it to only one title, and in a lot more places that name appears. Therefore, he as such is not a valid amendment. But the amendment to Article 30, I think you understand it, in paragraph 1, says an integral workshop and a protection workshop can exercise the right to subsidise wages per employee. We can have the good or bad leadership of such an integral workshop. The aim of this amendment was that they would exercise the right to subsidies, that disabled people, that persons with disabilities should not be deprived of what the state should actually give them, and the mechanisms were others that needed to change good or bad management and integrated or protective workshops. Of course, I don't want to impose my opinion, you will do how you think it's okay, but I would like to have some firmer guarantee of rights than in the formulation can exercise the right to subsidise and is the duty of a future institution for the art and professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities to follow everything that happens in these workshops and to sort of suggest and manage, but also to provide a part of the income because it could be essentially the only stable basis because you know the local community jumps out. However, here we also have the possibility of including both the Employment and Pension Insurance Institute, but I think the future will always be a strong basis for their subsidy to the agency for the skills, professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. And one more thing I want to share with you, I'm not at all worried about whether or not the government will appoint or appoint a minister. If we want to have a good system, we need a candle to look for people who will engage in these jobs because the salary is not big. So these people have to be kind of committed to working for others if that's gonna work. Every time I leave, however, I have been rarely in that institution, so a protection workshop, but we have one rare thing in Pula, that a person with a diagnosis of autism has started to communicate quite well with the environment, which is very rarely recorded in our practice, and that is possible only when good human relations are in there, that someone feels very good. And creating such an atmosphere is one of the priority tasks in the protection and future integration workshops so that everyone can succeed together. Here's the goal today is to share some of my experiences with all of you and give some of the possible suggestions on this law. Of course I will personally support the passing of this law as well as the HSU club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63136	Thank you, too. Despite all this, a replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic has been reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63137	You mean in spite of the time. So, Mr. Hrelja, I just wanted to add something, and I feel the need to say that what you say to a man is to work and to live from work, both for the disabled and for every other man, and for the disabled in particular. What you were saying about cooperatives, about protection workshops, integration workshops, good to them, is that the foreign name is integral, but it's really integration, inclusion, inclusion in society and in work a good name and that they have the right to a special fee as well as employers who hire but I think it means that there's nothing else. So, the fact that disabled people can be hired in such integrated workshops, cooperatives or protection workshops and set up some kind of cooperative, a protective workshop, is also a matter that in this state society, in the end we have the Cooperatives Act, etc., can be very positive in terms of the employment of disabled people after the prescribed rehabilitation or without it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63138	Thank you very much. Lastly, on behalf of the proposing, the respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63139	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I hope this law will get the support of all clubs because it is a new step towards hiring disabled people, professional rehabilitation, but also skills, so a whole new step, I would not say in the system but a new step towards optimising the system so I hope that all clubs will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63140	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. The final draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 440. The debate on the law test is over. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the HSU and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. I ask the government's representative, the respected Minister Miranda Mrsic, to manifest himself. 1 and 2, Ministers of Amendments 1 and 2 of the HSU Representatives Clubs have been withdrawn. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63142	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63143	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63144	The government doesn't accept. It is undeniable that the right to professional rehabilitation can be recognised to persons with disabilities who have the remaining working capacity, regardless of whether they are unemployed or employed. However, this law does not need to explicitly prescribe that a decision on the right to professional rehabilitation for persons employed is passed by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. Since it is the right of the compulsory pension scheme, it is also already prescribed by the Pension Insurance Act. Therefore, this law should only stipulate that a solution to the right to professional rehabilitation for unemployed persons will bring HZZ. In addition, it should be borne in mind that procedures for the exercise of individual rights and thus the right to professional rehabilitation are initiated exclusively at the request of the party, not on official duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63145	On behalf of the applicant of the amendment... Are you asking for a vote? Would you like to make a statement on Amendment number 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? Who's in? ... We're going to Amendment number two of the HDZ Representatives Clubs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63146	This law does not require detailed development of the handling of competent inspections, labour inspections, educational and administrative inspections. In the event of a breach of the right of advantage in the employment of persons with disabilities, given that the measures which certain inspections may be taken in the event that certain irregularities have already been imposed in the case of controls. Therefore, only the power to exercise inspection control over the application of the law and the application of the law on the right of advantage in employment is laid down in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63147	Minister, do you accept or do you not accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63148	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63149	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant of the amendment...... We're looking for a vote, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll do the vote now. Who is the number two Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? I ask you to get used to the position of the opposition as well. We voted, we did. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. Amendment number three of the respected ministers of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63150	The amendment is not accepted. The selection of Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors of the Institute shall be carried out without a public tender procedure for the reason that it is possible to select for the work persons who will manage the tasks of the Institute in a quality and professional manner, taking responsibility for the work and what the Director should have, and that is, that the Director should have a team below him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63151	On behalf of the applicant of the amendment... You're looking for a vote. Please state the amendment number three of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 89 votes in favour and 11 votes against the adoption of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. We're going to new work victories. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 555 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. There is the minister of justice, the respected Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63153	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. Three most important, four major changes, we create conditions for the functioning of the Register of Unpaid Penalties, technically it is arranged, so with these amendments it actually begins as soon as the law enters into force. It will apply to driver's licenses and registrations, so whoever didn't pay any criminal penalty won't be able to get a driver's license, or traffic ticket. But at the same time, the system works so that when the citizen comes to the counter he will be informed about it, he will be informed of the debt. He can get a payment card right away. It can pay the same hour and actually get the documents it needs right away. The other thing is the 50% we've allowed to pay at the crime scene. It's been shown in practice very well. Now we're sorting it out in a way, actually we want to propagate and promote that people don't even have to have cash with them so that these cash transactions aren't being made there by a cop, a citizen, etc. So we're giving it an opportunity to pay within three days, provided there's no dispute against the offense. The second thing, to all those citizens who have so far been not stopped, for example in traffic, but to get home notice that they have committed some kind of traffic violation. Now we also give the opportunity to pay 50% if they pay immediately, or within three days. Next we are strengthening a small legal framework to combat violence on sports grounds, domestic violence through two mechanisms. One thing is to regulate the detention now being brought forward by the police, so he's being held back, bringing the judge in for a misdemeanor, so we have one continuity if a prison sentence is convicted. On the other hand, we are raising the possibility of safeguards for two years, meaning in these two laws, it means the suppression of violence on sports grounds and on domestic violence. The fourth thing, in fact, since 2008, has ceased the legal basis for the survival of the Regulation on the handling of cases seized in the infringement proceedings, is now being returned. So we're going back to this law for that. We will adopt a Regulation on the handling of cases in the infringement procedure of customs duties, tax, etc., primarily customs duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63154	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We're going to argue with the representatives' clubs. The Social Democratic Party of Croatia club is next and the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63155	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us other amendments and additions to the 2007 Penal Code. The reasons for the first amendments and additions to the Criminal Code that entered into force on 1 June 2013 were primarily a major increase in the number of infringement cases, then an increase in the backlogs of resolved cases, and the third reason for the poor collection of penalties imposed. The data that we heard at the time in the debate was amazing and concerned the number of violations in relation to the number of residents in the countries of the Council of Europe. In the Member States of the Council of Europe, there are around 2300 violations per 100,000 inhabitants, and in Croatia more than 7,000 pointed to the ferocity of this branch. Since then, 70,000 pending cases and only 14% of penalties charged clearly indicated that the existing Criminal Law should have been amended to make this branch effective. The SDP club will also support these amendments and additions to the Criminal Law aimed at further increasing efficiency. What we want to stress in particular is that the SDP club welcomes the goals that are to be achieved. The Ministry of Justice has this proposal shows that it continues on the path it has taken in other areas such as litigation, enforcement, criminal and land-marking proceedings. This is the path of courageous and modern reforms that are in the wake of greater efficiency of the judiciary and not only that, but the effects of these and such reforms are systematically monitored. These changes and additions continue to aim at the efficiency of the system which we certainly support. The novelty in domestic criminal law is certainly the denial of the issue or extension of the validity of certain documents to those convicts who have not paid the penalty. We all stand for the safety of road traffic, for example. We are also witnessing serious violations that put their perpetrators at risk the lives and assets of others. We consider a very good solution if you and those convicts, for example, do not extend the validity of the driver's license unless they have paid the fine. Of course, without allowing for the full effectiveness of this standard, it is difficult to expect the full purpose of punishment. We believe that prescribing the court's obligation to notify the register which will be electronically linked to the criminal record conducted by the Ministry of Justice without delay of a decision on the offence and the unpaid penalty shall lead to that effectiveness. Furthermore, I support that the provisions of these amendments and additions allow for regulation and other safeguard measures ranging from one month to two years and for those safeguard measures prescribed by a special law, such as the Law on the Prevention of Violence in Sports Competitions and the Law on Protection against Family Violence, all on the trail of zero tolerance to violence. All safeguard measures should be equal treatment and a one-month-to-two-year period. It is well noted that, for example, violations stemming from domestic violence, so to speak, deserve to be able to impose a protective measure banning the victims of domestic violence and up to two years, as well as for example a protective measure of compulsory treatment against addiction or a ban on the management of a motor vehicle. That the Ministry of Justice monitors the implementation and effects of previous amendments and additions also shows a proposal allowing half of the penalties to be paid to those perpetrators who, at the time at the scene of the infringement, do not have enough money to pay the penalty or who cannot, by nature, be found at the scene of the offence such as a traffic violation recorded by a surveillance camera. A three-day period in which not only should be paid but also proof of the payment made shall be provided to the body which has established the infringement is appropriate as it can be almost identified with immediate effect. Infringements related to public order and peace as well as domestic violence are certainly violations that directly affect the state of public security and violations affecting the personal security of citizens. We agree that this category certainly includes violations related to the prevention of riots in sports competitions. We therefore consider a good solution that allows for the determination and retention of the person charged with the proposal under investigation and if the court finds that there are no grounds for rejecting the indictment proposal. And as we have said ahead, given that both these changes and additions to the efficiency of the SDP club will support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63156	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric and the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63157	Dear President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I will try to be as brief as possible, I hope there won't be a replica given the time shift and your tiredness. But here's a few words about this bill. So, since 1 June, as already said this year, the provisions of the Criminal Law that parliamentary MPs discussed in March this year were in force, and then the existing Law on Infringements was given this new name, Criminal Law, which the president mentioned at the outset. In particular, most of these provisions are in force from that date, and among them is the most significant for citizens, it is pointed out that they are allowed to pay half of the amount of fines provided for if they pay on the spot and that there is no limitation for fines imposed, but those who do not pay will be recorded in the register of fines imposed and charged and, in time, if they do not pay the fine for the amount requested will be reduced. If a person wants to complain, he must know that he will bear the costs of the court proceedings on his own account, which has not been the case so far. However, not all provisions with the same date have been adopted, so the provisions on the shortfall of documents and registers are legally imposed and the penalties not charged, whose establishment of the same amendments and additions are scheduled to enter into force on 1 January 2014, is that right. The amendments and additions we are discussing today are encouraged by the process of establishing a register of legally imposed and unpaid fines, resulting in the need for new amendments and additions to the electronic documents and entries of data into the register. Article 7 amends and additions of registers of legally imposed and unpaid fines becomes the Register of unpaid penalties for simpler use of the name. The same Article also amends paragraph 2 of Article 152 of the applicable law, and the Court and the other body which made the decision will notify the register thereof, replace the words without delay and notify the register thereof. The provisions so far have been bound by a court or by another body which has made a decision on the infringement to notify the registry of the non-paid penalty, but by taking into account the criminal record in the Ministry of Justice, the decisions of the courts will be visible and should not be further bound by them to notify the register of the decision they have made. Furthermore, the scope of the provisions on the shortfall of documents is narrowed so that the right to participate in a public tender in public procurement procedures, the establishment of a legal entity, each of its status changes, the establishment and registration of crafts and other independent activities, and the award of concessions and the acquisition of subsidies are no longer prescribed as mandatory shortfalls based on the law of the offence, and I think it is good that each law regulates certain things in its own way, especially those which are public procurement. And we ourselves have witnessed that both municipalities and cities and all those we conduct public tenders have always sought and some additional guarantees and guarantees, BON1 and BON2 and all that was needed to ensure in some way that the legal entity with which we will conclude through public procurement has certain qualifications in this sense that they do not have debts, that they are not punished and all that is determined by special laws. I think that's good. As I have pointed out since 1 June 2003, provisions on the payment of half the penalties provided for are also in force and this is also good, because on the spot without any special procedures by the police can be charged immediately at the start of half the fine. And this second supplement in this sense if the person does not have the current money, and she is willing to pay the fine in some way and confess the offence is granted this three-day delay under the same conditions of payment of half the fine. For some offences the perpetrator by nature of the offence... was found in a certain offence so that the group of perpetrators would be in an unequal position with regard to the perpetrators of the other offences and if we can so say they were in an unequal position. The legal provisions proposed in Article 14 of the amendment and supplementation, or Article 245 of the applicable law, allow the court and them to charge fines in such situations as to be charged at the place of initiation, just as I said. And then that evidence of the payment made to the body that found the offence. Therefore, for those who, within three days, pay the fine provided for in a certain offence, can now count on the payment of only half of the fine. In addition to these provisions, it should be stressed that they refer only to those perpetrators who, at the scene of the offence, indicate. In Article 135(1), the Minister noted this, I think that we are all in agreement that we really need to take care, that measures should be taken and that the best solution that has recently been, and not only in recent years but also in recent years, appear in Croatian sport related to known events, related to all cheerleadings, are foreseen here and precisely these changes relating to the arrest by the perpetrators, by the police at the scene. For the HDZ Club, this draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law with the final proposal for a law is acceptable. We'll back him up and only in the end maybe I'm already a couple of times, so let's just say the French parliamentary agent, but in 90% and more of the laws that we've passed here, it's all kind of an emergency procedure. In this case, the law was thoroughly prepared. There were changes to the existing law. It has been discussed in March this year, and we are now discussing these amendments and additions at the end of the year, and this is just what it is saying about the fact and in some way confirms the opinion of the Administrative Court of Justice on how to adopt here in this High House of the Law by emergency procedure, how many cases the law is so passed that it is not thoroughly prepared, discussed, that not all amendments, all opinions and representatives and committees and all other times happen that it may not be quite the quality law that we all want in any way, in any case when it is adopted such an experienced I would say the changes that have arisen from its application. I think they can be brought in by emergency procedure and they're all acceptable. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63158	Thanks for the general instructions. This concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 555, the debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 88 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 1 abstention, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Infringement Act has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63161	Thank you very much. So, I talked a lot about the text of the law at first reading. I'm just going to say one important difference is more or less nomotechnical. So we have respected the union's demands to extend the existing grounds for exemption from the payment of court fees to workers in administrative procedures arising from pre-fashion settlements because this is something new that we haven't had so far. Trade unions, multi-level union associations in litigation proceedings for judicial replacement consent and in collective labour disputes when it comes to trade union commissioners in litigation proceedings for the exercise of the powers of the working council. So that's a subtle difference and the rest is nomotechnics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63162	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. You've been precise and clear, the core. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. There are representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and respected Milan Jurkovic, a HDZ representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63163	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let me paraphrase a TV commercial in this honorary home in this late hour. So, you won't listen to my debate for 15 minutes, you won't listen to her for ten minutes, you won't listen to her for five minutes, but I'll cut her out for you. Mr. Minister, it's about one law, don't get me wrong, very well done. Therefore, and related primarily to harmonising with the changes in one part of the law, but this law also proposes an increase in court fees, which in this crisis time is an additional burden for special citizens. In the current law in Article 16 where the exemption from court fees was also discussed, it was among other persons and bodies in the exercise of public authority and the text which exercise public authority in the exercise of those powers is proposed. The Institute of Public Authorities is the subject of many discussions in theory, practice and is often asked a question on what basis all persons or bodies exercise public authority and how to define public authority when it is not prescribed anywhere. In particular, it bothers me because I come from local, regional or regional self-government, which is that both local and regional self-government, so our cities and municipalities and counties are unable to enter this part of the body of public authority to be freed and we know what funding is especially the units of regional self-government, so the county, although neither municipalities nor cities stand much better. I wonder how this has been resolved so far, or will it be left to the court's office to assess freely? We support any amendments to the law supplementing the provisions in order to make the laws more effective and to remove doubts in their application but I think that this law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes should not increase the fees but consider reducing them regardless of the state budget. Thank you, Mr. President, here are three minutes. Here the pharmacist should be Finance Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63164	It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn in the Croatian Parliament and respected colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63165	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, considering it to be just and effective. It's usually very difficult to achieve, but when you want to, you know, and have a vision, then you can. Just one sentence to remember ancient times, in the '90s when, for example, it was a tax while the tariff of law was for insult and slander somewhere around 280, close to 300 kuna, at the same time the fee was 600 kuna. So, it's been a long time, tariffs have changed, fees have been reduced, but now we have this Final Bill of Court Taxes that will be effective in charging court fees, which is first and secondly fair. A circle of people who have been released from payment of the court fee is being extended, but not in some way voluntary as it has been left to the court itself, i.e. the judges who have been dealing with the main affairs and the easiest, and they have seen that it is the poor parties, and then perhaps not questioning their property situation often freed the parties. In this way we have, therefore, precisely defined which is the circle of people who will be freed, but equally effective way to charge these fees and charge them. Also, this system where the FINA has been transferred to carry out this business over cash claims will also be done by FINA in terms of forced collection, therefore, court fees. And when that's not possible because there are no armed funds, then it'll be done through the IRS and the execution will be carried out on the entire property of the taxpayer. In this way, one message is sent, so that even such ones are actually reduced, which are set at a market price on the one hand, and on the other hand I have already noted, that this social component and the scope of the people covered by the exemption are extended and a 5-year standstill for the charge is extended. So that and this little one, it seems, and at some perhaps first glance, that it's about insignificant things, but that's a huge way, huge resources that collect our judicial bodies in their daily work. Here, that's why. The SDP club, I say once again, supports the adoption of this proposal of the Law on Court Taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63166	Thank you, too, dear colleague. This concludes the debate on the text of the law, and we will vote on this when the conditions are met. I suggest we make a deal so we don't go home, get on with it tomorrow. Let's start by now to discuss the draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because we'll start tomorrow at 9.30 with that item on the agenda. I thank you all. You've been persistent, consistent, real advocates. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. Session interrupted at 21.43 p.m. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, second reading, PZ No. 507, the final draft of the law is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I would like to ask the representative of the motionary, respected Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, to declare first of all the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The government accepts Amendment No. 1 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63169	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63170	The government accepts Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63171	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number three of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63172	The government also accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63173	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the amendment of the Justice Committee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63174	Amendment of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament to Article 2(2) is hereby adopted. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes in an amended form reads as follows: "In Article 2(2), the words for each party are added to the proceedings."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63175	On behalf of the board of presidents...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63176	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-11-0.u63177	Thank you very much. In modified form accepted. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 86 votes in favour and 11 abstentions, have been adopted by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament, respected fellow MPs good morning. We'll continue after what hours? We've been working on the plenary session for 10 hours. We begin as we announced yesterday with: - Proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The draft amending act shall be proposed by the Constitutional Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System in accordance with Article 60. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Immediately at the beginning of the amendment, the draft amendments to the Constitution may be submitted by the end of the debate. Would the committee's proposal be further explained by the representative? Yeah. Dear colleague Peja Grbin, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here's your esteemed colleague.
