ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u35464	Mr. President, the HDZ Club would like a break. For the past ten days, we have witnessed an alarming situation which is unprecedented in the Croatian political life of physical attacks against volunteers of the Civil Initiative on behalf of the family. Such outflows of intolerance, hatred and physical threats that arise only because of a different opinion are not something we should tolerate in Croatia. We expected the prime minister, the government, the President of the Republic, to come forward, but for nothing. And that is why we believe that the most representative body of the Croatian state should react to the phenomenon of hate and violence, which is this Assembly, so we are asking for a 30-minute break so that we can articulate our views, and I expect other clubs of representatives to articulate their views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u35465	I'm setting a ten-minute break. Enough? Fifteen, I extend at the request of the HDZ Club 15 minutes. Thank you very much. It's 9:00.32. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u35467	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I said, we are witnessing a situation that is unprecedented in Croatian political but public life. People not only insult themselves but also physically attack. For example, the day before yesterday at the Dolac market in the middle of Zagreb, in the middle of the day, an unknown man was struck savagely by a handful of volunteers who collected signatures for a petition in a referendum that would eventually introduce a provision in the Constitution that would make marriage a community of women and men. Volunteers are offended, physically attacked in several cities, especially in Rijeka and Zagreb. The highlight of intolerance and savagery is that a stand of initiative was set on fire in the Flower Square in the center of Zagreb, where a volunteer was given burns. Signing lists were violently kidnapped, derans, volunteers were insulted and threatened. We expected the prime minister to react to that. He was first busy obviously with an election campaign, then explaining his failure in the election, and then talking about a Nordic and Byzantine approach, so now what's happening is certainly not a Nordic approach. Then we expected the attorney general to react to that. Neither did she react, and of course it gives us the right to think and remember the way she was chosen, completely non-transparent and non-democratic. So we expected some of the ministers who marched in gay parades in the front row to protect the right to a different opinion here, to protect the right to tolerance, and unfortunately it didn't happen either. We expected that some of the independent commentators who are practically present on state television every day would also protect people from intolerance and aggression, of course it didn't happen. Only the Croatian Helsinki Committee came forward with a statement, however, virtually not transmitted by the media. The HDZ calls on this Assembly, as well as the entire Croatian society, to take the most concrete and strict measures against the display of hatred and intolerance, especially physical violence against non-insistants. In democratic societies there is no monopoly on the truth and there cannot be a monopoly on the truth and there can be no one's mind. I hope that we will not testify to two-faces and different approaches, or double criteria for the same crimes. In fact, if random advocates of same-sex marriage were attacked, all media, NGOs, ministers, would be on their feet, horrified and condemned. We do not want to believe that intolerance and violence of another direction are acceptable, and one direction is not. And that's what anyone can and can advocate in this society. We do not want to believe that the law of lynch and pogrom is beginning to be tolerated in Croatian society, but if it is aimed in one direction. We're appalled and amazed by what's going on. We want to say very clearly that HDZ supports the introduction of a constitutional provision that marriage is a woman and a man's life union. It is known what is the definition of marriage, which is both life and legal content, meaning, and we hold that it cannot and must not be endangered by anything. For us and our worldview that we represent, it's a fundamental element. We believe that the family is a fundamental component of society. We stand up and we think this House must stand in the protection of the rights of all who wish to express their opinion. We are opposed to showing any impatience and hatred toward those who think differently. This time, the Assembly must not simply say no to the fact that in broad daylight people are publicly offended, beaten and burned because someone disagreed with them ideologically and secularly. It leads to, let me say, a speech of hatred that is increasingly beginning to dominate unfortunately with a public scene and a sequence which, for example, there have been no significant reactions to the fact that in the election campaign, even shots were fired at HDZ activists who were glued to posters. It doesn't seem to concern those in this society at all who should be very concerned, so we wonder what we can expect next? If none of the other authorities have responded to this, the Parliament would have to because freedom of speech and opinions is one of the fundamental sets of democracy. And democracy is ladies and gentlemen a gentle plant and we must cherish it and protect it because there are obviously those who would gladly rip it out or trample it out so that only their speech, their ideology and their worldview can be heard. But we won't and we can't. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u35468	Thank you, Your Honor. From the presidential table, I can say that democratic values in Croatian society are beyond and above party values and that all political options support, build and defend democratic standards in the Republic of Croatia. That intolerance must not dwell in Croatian society no matter who it is or how it defends, that civil society is the advantage and value of democratic societies and that there is no difference between us. I am convinced that I will defend it no matter where I am, what I do and what duty I do. I hope the message is clear, unequivocal, and that's why I'm convinced it won't happen again. Thank you very much. And now we'd move on to the agenda that's been established. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Double Purpose Control Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 314 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Representative Denis Tchaiu, Head of the State Office for Trade Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39363	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You have before you a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Double-Intent Control Act. The dual-purpose control and export system Croatia began to apply on 1 January 2005, subject to the entry into force of the Export Act of dual-use goods. The amendments to the law in July 2008 met the standards prescribed by UN Security Council Resolution 1540 on the prevention of the spread of weapons of mass destruction. The dual-use goods are goods that include computer programs and any other technology that can be used for civil or military purposes and for the production of weapons of mass destruction. For example, such goods are an example of a tyonyl chloride chemical used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products but can also be used for the manufacture of chemical weapons. Another additional example would be radio transmitters that serve civil purposes to broadcast radio programs, but in a modified version. Such transmitters may be used for military purposes or for interference with other radio stations, as well as radio navigation devices for air and maritime navigation. Export control plays an important role in preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction as one of today's main threats to international security. In the EU, the dual-purpose surveillance area is governed by Council Regulation (EC) No 428/2009 of 5 May 2009 establishing a Community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transport of dual-use goods. That Regulation is part of the EU's common trade policy and is fully binding and directly applicable in all Member States and will also apply in the Republic of Croatia from the date of accession of the EU. In order to ensure its correct application, each Member State should take measures to give the competent authorities the appropriate powers. Therefore, in July 2011, the Croatian Parliament adopted a new Law on the control of dual-purpose goods that will enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and will allow for the direct direct application of that Regulation. The law lays down the competent authorities for the authorisation and enforcement of controls and criminal provisions implementing the Council Regulation of 2009 and the joint action of the EU Council of 22 June 2000 on the supervision of technical assistance in relation to certain types of military use. In November 2011, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a new regulation amending the previous Regulation. The new regulation prescribes five new EU general export licences allowing the export of certain dual-purpose goods to certain destinations, to certain markets without issuing an individual authorisation and these general licences are available to all exporters that comply with the prescribed conditions for their use. By granting such licences, the EU aims to increase the competitiveness of industry and to establish equal conditions for all exporters at Union level while ensuring a high level of security and respect for international obligations. Since the new Regulation obliges Member States to lay down how such general authorisations are to be used. So each Member State itself prescribes the way in which it will implement the regulation, this proposal has been drawn up to amend this proposal and supplement the Double Purpose Control Act, which prescribes the conditions for the use of the EU General Export Authorisations in the Republic of Croatia and gives power to the competent authority of the State Office for the prohibition of the use of such authorisations in the event of non-compliance with the prescribed conditions. The amendments to the laws are also amended, as already stated by the competent authority for issuing authorisations, in view of the change in the structure of the Government, or the entry into force of the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration, and it is prescribed that, instead of the former Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the current competent authority, which is the State Office, should be authorised. This proposal also amends the proposed criminal provisions which are in line with Article 33. Violent law. It is important to say that this new law does not adopt and create any new obligations and difficulties in applying for Croatian businessmen. A regulated legislative framework based on the EU acquis is a potentially comparative advantage for those companies that are internationally present and which will... operate in accordance with export control requirements and is particularly positive in the event of attracting foreign investment in high-tech technologies. Since 1 July 2013, Croatian exporters shall be allowed to use general EU export licences or to export certain goods to certain markets without issuing individual export licences. For example. almost all dual-use goods exported on the dual-use list except for militaryly sensitive and security-sensitive goods such as nuclear materials, chemical weapons and technology and missile equipment, will be able to be exported freely to Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Switzerland and the United States without issuing an individual authorisation. It will also be possible, without issuing an individual authorisation, to export certain goods after repair or replacement, to fairs or exhibitions. Following all of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of dual-purpose goods. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39364	Thank you, too. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to submit reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For discussion we will go to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and the Honorable Representative Đuro Popiac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39365	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Director with the associate. So, we heard, there is a technical amendment to the law that will essentially take effect on the day of Croatia's accession to the European Union, so 1. Seven. 2011 It is an important law and an important amendment because, to remind Croatia, the Croatian economy is fortunate or here is the opportunity to really consume this law because there are extremely important economic operators in Croatia who work products that treat this law. Therefore, dual-use goods are goods, including computer programs and technologies, which can be used for both civil and military purposes and goods that can be used for non-explosive purposes but which can in any way help in the production of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosives. Therefore, Croatia has done everything to harmonise its legislation and in 2011 a double-use control law was adopted. And since the European Union has strictly regulated this area and, therefore, a major change has occurred in 2011, it is logical that a law that has not yet entered into force in these particular elements and has been corrected. It is therefore important to mention here that it is absolutely certain that these five new general export licences will significantly simplify, therefore, what the European Union has predicted will simplify and speed up procedures and I would also say the lives of those who produce such equipment and who are exposed to local and domestic bureaucracy in the exercise of licences. I would like, therefore, that since jurisdiction is also changing, that the Ministry of Economy is no longer in charge of issuing permits, but here is the newly formed State Office for Foreign Affairs. And we see that it remains a commission made up of the practical majority, a representative of the majority of the ministries to make sure that these permit procedures are not bureaucratised, to facilitate and speed up the flow of documentation. And that those better-quality exporters, and we have them among the best or best or the only ones in the world who do this stuff and these products, everything seems to make these exporters as efficient as possible and as fast as they get their licenses. And to make good use of this possibility of the European Union resulting from this new regulation of the European Parliament. So it's a technical change, it's a change of jurisdiction, so the State Office for Trade Policy is in place, and there's no reason, therefore, this is one of the few laws that we have to say is good and that we will ultimately support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39366	Thank you, Your Honor. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's club and the respected representative Sandra Petrovic-Jakovina. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39367	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Proposer, we have before us amendments to the Law on the Control of Double-Food Goods adopted in order to comply with the provisions of the applicable law with the amended Council Regulation No 1232 of 2011. On 16 November 2011, Regulation (EC) No 428 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011 amending Regulation (EC) No 428 of the European Union until then. As we have prepared our legislation in this area for Croatia's entry into the European Union and after that, we still have the new regulation before the date of Croatia's accession to the EU itself to bring this law into line with the new regulation in this area. Why is dual-purpose surveillance so important that the European Union is making specific regulations and specific regulations on it? Of course, to answer that question, you need to be aware of what a dual-purpose commodity is and what consequences it can have on the market. In this respect, the monitoring of dual-use goods is important in the fight against terrorism and is carried out to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction and the misuse of such equipment or technology. It is therefore a commodity that can be used for civilian or military purposes, or goods that can be used for non-explosive purposes but in any way can be used to prepare nuclear weapons or other explosive devices. Practical use of these goods for civil purposes can be very benign or may be very useful and may represent technological development but if it is used as a means that will result in an explosion either for the purpose of terrorism or terrorism by individuals or organisations, it certainly deserves special attention in these days. Perhaps a bizarre example, but we are also witnessing a recent attack on the Boston Marathon where an explosive device was also used from elements that the original purpose is not explosive at all, but combined with other elements can have devastating consequences. In Boston, it was reportedly a time bomb placed in an express pot filled with shrapnel. Instructions for making such a bomb can only be found on the Internet, so no specific knowledge is needed. The list of dual-purpose goods in our country brings the Government of the Republic of Croatia to its regulation by uniting goods from the list of international regimes, such as... arrangement, missile technology control regime, groups of nuclear suppliers, Australian groups and conventions on the ban on the development, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. The adoption of such a list which is in line with the Member States of those regimes allows for the same classification and procedure of issuing export licences of dual-purpose goods in different countries. By amending the 2009 Regulation, which took place in 2011, adopted five new general export licences of the European Union allowing exports without individual authorisation to certain destinations, respecting the prescribed conditions for use. This is due to an increase in the competitiveness of the industry of such products and the equality of conditions for all exporters in the European Union. Therefore, the Croatian industry can see its opportunity in this way.... As Croatia joins the European Union, it will also refer to our industry, exporters, providing it with equal conditions as other Member States have. The State Trade Policy Office is designated as a body which will have the power to control export licences and prohibit the use of such licences if abuse occurs. At the same time, the European Union, as well as Croatia, underlines the importance of ensuring a high level of security and respect for these obligations as a permanent commitment by Member States towards international peace and security. Therefore, the SDP club will support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39368	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It is up to the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39369	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. This is what I would really say is one law that bears an E mark and since it is two of the most important things or very important things, which is a change of jurisdiction, so instead of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, it is called the State Office for Trade Policy, i.e. Director or Head of the State Office for Trade Policy, that is one thing. The second is that the law at issue today allows Croatian dual-purpose exporters to use a general EU export licence, i.e. to export certain goods to certain destinations without issuing an individual export licence. It is therefore two basic things, and given this in Article 7 of the word on sanctions that can be applied, a law which the HDSB club will adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39370	Thank you, Your Honor. It is next to the Club of HNS Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39371	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HNS Club will support these amendments and additions to the Double Purpose Control Act, with the final proposal of the law, it is quite clear not only for the harmonisation of our legislation with the European Union but also for what reason this law is actually passed, and that is already said by colleagues before me, because of the competitiveness of the economy, but also for security. Here we are still discussing and considering what is essential for the Croatian economy, for Croatian businessmen, what is crucial and important for our exporters who, if they are small or medium-sized, most often when they export to large countries, they use partners who are from those countries to perform together on the market, that as producers, they do both exports and technology and knowledge that can be used tomorrow in a segment for military purposes and therefore, this law is also extremely important. It is also important that all our producers working in the segment of exporting technology that has the possibility of double-use, although they have been educated in this matter so far, because these are changes and additions of the law, therefore, are already partly regulated and applied in the Croatian economy during export, it is also important to continue through the State Office for Trade Policy, but certainly through the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which has certain representations in third countries to say so, that they are also consulted in finding better partners with whom when they go into partnership and exporting certain technologies, this security is absolutely covered. What is not in the debates so far may be a little more detailed because of the public, and that is the question when we talk about some brokerage services. So it is absolutely clear to everyone that when new technologies are exported that have a dual purpose to, according to all regulations and regulations, regulations, lists, detailed descriptions of the goods in which and which can actually be exported, we have one item that says brokerage services here. I think it's good for the public to know that these brokerage services aren't the services most often used in a financial market with brokers. This includes the negotiation or arrangement of goods for purchase, sale or purchase of goods of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia, the EU or the sale or purchase of goods of strategic, security importance reflected in the security of the Republic of Croatia. So here this segment of brokers is really related to and implies negotiation and negotiation. Of course, here includes that segment that is related to certain technical assistance, because technical assistance not only through services, not only through goods is aid for repair, development, production and conclusion, testing of certain technologies, which means that not only when controlled and goods going to third markets are also controlled and those services that can lead to exports. We say mind on the third markets that can be used tomorrow for dual purposes, which can threaten tomorrow the safety of the Republic of Croatia, and these are the technical assistance that we speak through the service itself and the export of knowledge. So, competitiveness and security is what this law is when we pass it, i.e. by applying 1.7 this year, will give Croatia's economy and the Republic of Croatia even more security on the issue of inability to actually do ourselves harm tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39372	Thank you, Your Honor. We've exhausted the list of respondents to the debate on this subject, so the debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now for one little piece of information, one deal. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on Friday 24th of this month and this week we will extend the agenda of this session of the Croatian Parliament with topics already addressed by the government to the Croatian Parliament and they are addressed to the procedure. The parliament will meet on 27th and 28th and 29th this month on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. On Thursday is the holiday of Teelova, we will not be in session, so I ask the presidents of the Board of Labour bodies of the Croatian Parliament to place the materials we referred to in the procedure of the Croatian Assembly on the agenda of the working bodies so that we can start with these topics on Monday. Thank you very much. We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Double-Food Control Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 314. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like a representative of the esteemed Denis Chaju's proposing that the amendments be made. Amendment number one. You have a plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39374	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39375	Amendment number one you accept. Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39376	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39377	Do you accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39378	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39379	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 110 votes, the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of dual-purpose goods in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. And now we're going to the next item of the agenda. It is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 345. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Dennis Chau, head of the State Trade Policy Office. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39381	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. You have before you a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Trade. This law is a basic regulation for the implementation of the trade policy of the Republic of Croatia which regulates the conditions for the conduct of trade on the domestic market, foreign trade, safeguards on imports, trade restriction measures, unfair trade, and supervision and administrative measures. Over the years, the law has experienced significant changes that have significantly changed and liberalised trade in the Republic of Croatia, especially trade abroad, in order to allow Croatian economic operators the freedom to carry out all forms of trade without specific restrictions. The first major amendments and additions to the Law on Trade were adopted during 1990 in order to comply with the provisions and rules of the World Trade Organisation, which was joined by the Republic of Croatia in 2000. The current law has been in force since 2008. Today's amendments and additions to the Law on Trade are proposed in view of the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. By entering EU membership, Croatia takes over the common trade policy and enters, i.e. it becomes part of the customs union established by the EU. The customs union implies an area where there are no internal barriers to the movement of goods within that customs union, within that customs space, in this case the EU of the internal market, and to goods entering from third countries, means outside the customs union, common rules and common tariffs for trade relations with third countries apply. And on the basis of either trade agreements concluded between the EU and third countries or on the basis of unilateral ones, the decision taken by the European Union itself which allows preferential imports from third countries to the most frequently undeveloped countries and developing countries. For these reasons, certain provisions of the Law on Trade which regulate trade policy and business abroad and any implementing rules adopted under those provisions, current provisions of the Law on Trade, by the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia, of the EU, should be put out of force. The proposal also excludes provisions relating to customs procedures and procedures for exporting and importing goods as they are regulated by the EU customs regulation because the practical Croatian market is becoming the EU market. So goods entering the Croatian market are also entering the EU market at the same time. At EU level, the area of trade policy is regulated by regulations as a secondary source of EU law, and these regulations will apply directly and fully to the Republic of Croatia on the day of accession. Certain regulations shall apply directly and shall not be necessary for them to adopt national rules in order to allow them to be applied. These are regulations concerning protection against dumped imports and subsidised imports from non-EU countries and common rules for imports. Since 1 July 2013, the adoption of a decision imposing dumped protection or protection against subsidised imports for European or Croatian companies from third countries will be implemented in accordance with EU regulations. This means that these measures are proposed by the EU and the EU is the one that implements the procedures, and the council votes to adopt the regulations... where a change is made, or individual measure is taken for individual infringements in the EU market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The State Office for Trade Policy will actively represent the interests of the Croatian economy in the EU institutions in the process of creating and implementing such measures and creating definitely European trade policy. Although the EU regulations are directly applicable in the Member States for certain EU regulations, it has authorised Member States to lay down national rules the competent authorities for the authorisation and enforcement of controls and has also authorised Member States to prescribe criminal provisions in order to ensure the effective application of those Regulations. In the area of the EU's common trade policy, this applies to regulations laying down the conditions for certification of controls on imports, exports of unprocessed diamonds and regulations governing trade with third countries of goods which could be used for the execution of the death penalty or for torture and remaining cruel or inhumane treatment and punishment. This area today is regulated in the Republic of Croatia by a Regulation on the export and import of goods which can be used for the execution of the death penalty, torture and other cruelly inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment, and by a regulation on the control of imports, exports of unprocessed diamonds which will be put out of force on the day of accession of the Republic of Croatia. Council Regulation (EC) No 2368/2002. implements the Kimberly process certification procedure for international trade in unprocessed diamonds to prevent trade, etc. The "blood diamonds" fund the efforts of rebel movements and their allies to undermine legitimate governments. The implementation of the certification procedure requires that imports and exports of unprocessed diamonds be subject to a strictly defined certification procedure. Each Member State may designate a competent authority for the implementation of the relevant provisions of that Regulation and each Member State shall determine sanctions applicable in the event of infringement of this Regulation. Since Croatia is largely importing unprocessed diamonds from EU Member States, Belgium and the United Kingdom are most often concerned, and that Croatian companies will also be free to buy in the European market after EU accession Croatia will no longer carry out the certification process for unprocessed diamonds. The additions to the Trade Act should only lay down criminal provisions which must be effective, proportionate and must be such as to deter the recurrence of such an act and to prevent those responsible for their violation from obtaining any economic benefit from trading diamonds. Council Regulation (EC) No 1236/2005. on trade in certain goods which could be used for the execution of the death penalty, torture or other cruelly inhumane or humiliating treatment or punishment prescribes a ban on exports and imports of equipment which has no practical use other than for the execution of the death penalty or torture and control of the export of certain goods which is not exclusively used for torture but also for legitimate purposes. In view of the need for Member States to establish the competent authorities for the authorisation and enforcement of controls and criminal provisions for its implementation, the addition of the law authorising the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a regulation laying down a form of export or import application shall be proposed, a procedure which shall also be laid down in the authorisation procedure and the way in which such goods are supervised. In that case, the State Office for Trade Policy and the competent authority for issuing export licences and imports of goods which could be used for the execution of the death penalty, torture or other cruelly inhumane or humiliating treatment or punishment shall be designated. Also, as in the case of the previous Regulation, penalties for infringements which must be effective, appropriate and preventive are prescribed. Following all of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39382	Thank you, Your Honor, for your offer. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the board of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Club of HDZ Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Đuro Popijač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39383	Thank you very much, Mr. President, representative with associate. So this law is actually one... an act that Croatia will regulate this area of trade and will fit the Croatian market in the single European market, so 500 million potential consumers and definitely implement those of four freedoms, so freedom of movement of goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is why it is extremely important and it is important to take the opportunity here to say something about what this is a single market and what Europe is doing in terms of trade policy in general. Therefore, EU trade policy objectives are defined by the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, and the articles establishing the customs union under this Treaty which contribute to the common interest of all EU Member States to gradually abolish restrictions on international trade and foreign investment by following the development of world trade and reducing customs and other trade barriers. The common trade policy is based on uniform principles, in particular as regards the change in customs rates in accordance with customs and trade agreements on trade in goods and services, commercial aspects, intellectual property, direct foreign investment, the harmonisation of trade liberalisation measures, the establishment of a common export policy and the use of trade protection mechanisms and the removal of trade barriers. The EU's common trade policy includes and determines the bilateral relations of the European Community with third countries and multilateral relations of the European Community through co-operation are multilateral organisations of the World Trade Organisation. This common policy is implemented through three dimensions, so multilateral policy is so called. WTO Doha negotiations, bilateral free trade agreements with individual countries and the Universal GSP general system of benefits and the EBA European System of Financial Control. This common trade policy is implemented through the mechanisms of liberalisation of trade in goods and services, customs policy, trade protection mechanisms, trade barriers. It is a general framework that Croatia enters within 40 days. And what does the Croatian economy expect with EU membership? The Republic of Croatia is becoming part of the EU's single internal market where all customs and non-tariff barriers disappear, cross-border operating costs are reduced, competition is increased, and free access to the market for all EU members as well as the EU's market for trade agreements. Croatian institutions and economies will, of course, be able to access EU funds and support economic projects aimed at new investments and programmes, employment, retraining and infrastructure building. The Republic of Croatia will also take over the provisions of the free trade agreement that the EU has concluded with individual countries and groups of countries, which include, among other things, the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and industrial products and the protocol on the origin of goods. The trade policy of the Republic of Croatia today is largely determined by membership in the World Trade Organisation, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the EU and other regional and bilateral free trade agreements. Now the Republic of Croatia has 4 free trade agreements which set out more favourable conditions, specific trade policy measures with 39 countries, CEFTA, Turkey and the EFTA. By signing the accession treaty since December 2011, the Republic of Croatia has gained accession status, and in just over a month it becomes a full member of the EU. All Croatian laws and implementing rules on trade policy thus cease to be in force on the date of entry into EU membership and on 1 July 2013. The path towards the EU has also been marked in terms of trade policy on trade liberalisation, free trade with countries in the region, harmonisation of legislation and eventual membership in the WTO which was both the basis and the basis for the integration of the Croatian economy into the European and global markets. With EU membership, Croatia must represent the interests of the Croatian economy in creating and implementing the EU's common trade policy and making EU views and decisions. It is also of particular importance to actively participate and represent the trade interests of the Republic of Croatia in other international multilateral economic organisations, in particular the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development of the OECD, as well as in UN economic agencies. Furthermore, by joining the EU Republic of Croatia, all bilateral and multilateral free trade agreements concluded by the Republic of Croatia will be put out of effect, and of which the CEFTA Treaty of 2006 is particularly important, which ensures more favourable conditions for exports to the markets of some CEFTA signatories than those of the EU. As in the previous two enlargements, the EU has conducted consultations with CEFTA countries with which it has concluded a Stabilisation and Association Agreement to negotiate additional protocols. This implies that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to transfer to the greatest extent possible the trade benefits it now has with these countries under existing contracts in order to reduce changes in export conditions to some of the most significant trading partners in the Republic of Croatia's traditional trade flows by entering the EU. But today, as a naturally interested party, we still do not know at what stage the EU negotiations with CEFTA countries are and how our economy will function with the very significant markets it has had so far. So the fact is that the EU's main export partner is about 60% of total exports but of course we know that Bosnia's food industry in particular, Serbia is crucial in the end, and with these countries we have the only surplus. And it is extremely important that the Croatian economy, of course, and all Croatian citizens know and know in which regime and how goods and services will be treated after Croatia's entry into the European Union. That's definitely not known at this point. So this is essentially a single framework that essentially represents this law, so changes are technical. Everything that has been limited and which has been worth particularly the market for the Republic of Croatia is now changing, is now being deleted, the ministry's jurisdiction is being abolished and I would say full responsibility for trade policy takes over, naturally, the State Office for Trade Policy and therefore finally, and of course, the Government. And it is also important, therefore, that everything that is happening because we see that the European Union has fully regulated and fully influenced this common market and that market will function with all other markets in the world. It is important that quality and sufficiently professional Croatian interests are represented in all these negotiations that will take place at European Commission level. We will support this law because here it is finally and only technically consistent with the changes adopted at European Commission level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39384	Thank you, too. It is up to the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly of HSU and the esteemed representative Željko Šemper. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39385	Thank you, Mr. President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments to the law on trade which has so far been a fundamental regulation for the implementation of trade policy in the Republic of Croatia. It regulated the conditions of trade in both domestic and foreign markets. The foundation of trade was already defined by the 1996 Trade Act, which significantly contributed to the liberalisation of trade relations. In particular, he made it easier for Croatian businessmen to deal with foreign partners. With the recent entry into the European Union, we will be users of the European Union's common trade policy, one of its most important policies, has a special relationship with third countries and the world trade organisation. Some provisions of this law, which regulate trade policy and foreign business, will be put out of force as of 1 July. The European Union, the area of trade policy, regulates regulations that will be fully applied in the Republic of Croatia by entering the European Union. This Regulation will regulate the protection of dumped imports from non-member countries of the European Community, the protection against subsidised imports and the common rules for imports of products from third countries into the European Community. It will also exclude the provisions on procedures for imports and exports as they will be regulated by the customs regulations of the European Union. The European Union shall regulate by its regulations the arrangements for imports of certain products from third countries into the European Union for which the State Trade Policy Office will lay down its way of applying them by means of its act. Thus, the European Commission will issue import licences for textile products and steel products where there are quantitative quotas for imports or for their control. The European Union has authorised Member States to lay down their rules for the authorisation and enforcement of controls. This applies to the establishment of conditions for the certification of controls, imports and exports of unprocessed diamonds as well as goods which could be used for the execution of the death penalty. This area today in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the Regulation on the export and import of goods which will be put out of force by the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of amendments and additions to this Trade Act allow for the direct application of the legal property of the European Union in the area of trade policy. This is how the Republic of Croatia will now apply the European Union's common trade policy. This proposal also confers powers on the Government of the Republic of Croatia for supervision as well as criminal provisions, as well as the adoption of a regulation laying down forms for the import and export of such licences. The Croatian Party of Retired Representatives Club supports these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39386	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of clubs of representatives in the Croatian Assembly for discussion on this topic. We move to an individual debate of representatives in the Croatian Parliament for 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39387	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well nothing, I'll be very brief what I could do with even one replica. I listened to my predecessors' thoughts on the amendment of the Law and amendments to the Law on Trade, and it's been a euphoria in Croatia for months, and that's when we enter 1. 7. in the European Union that everything will be easy, everything will be easier because we will be able to trade. And let's remember that Mr. Miranda Mrsic said when he was asked about employment, so here are the borders, so the workers will be able to go to Europe. My question is to all of us and especially to the Croatian Government, what are we going to trade in the European Union? What strategy have we brought in so that we can engage equally with all competitors on the European market? I don't think there's a strategy. That we haven't done much or done almost nothing. Is all these years of production in Croatia destroying us by accident or is it with a purpose, as was the case in many other countries, which all those who have read little about the doctrine of shock know what I'm talking about. Therefore, Croatia enters the European Union unprepared, Croatia has no reason or very few of what it can trade in the European Union, and I think that this joy, satisfaction expressed in the media or that some members of the government show that I think it is baseless and that Croatia is in a very independent situation and that it means only one thing, that Croatia will flood goods cheap, unquality, and that Croatia itself has very little or nothing to trade in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39388	Thank you, Your Honor. Replications have been reported to your exhibit. The first replica and respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39389	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, I agree with your question because it's a major breakthrough in trade and how we're going to trade and what you said is what we're going to trade with and mainly in this part of the food, and that's basically a fundamental question. Because we have the potential to produce food for 25 million people, and now we see what kind of situation we are in: milk production falls, meat production falls, etc. And in these circumstances, and we had one truly stable, and we're always talking about a strategic agricultural branch that can feed so many people, and now in these circumstances we won't have enough food for ourselves, we're going to have to import non-quality food, and of course our food industry won't have enough raw materials to produce food. And in that part, I really do hold your inquiry on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39390	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39391	Dear colleague Milinkovic, yes, that's exactly what this is about. We have done all the previous years, not only in this year and a half or two years, but we have worked at the time of the HDZ Government and before Racan's Government to destroy agriculture, we know how we treat milkers, as we treat producers of other agricultural products, as we treat the processing industry. The only thing we're satisfied with is the opening of the trade chains, and in those trade chains we have side goods. We boast of tourism that is making excellent progress thanks to the geostrategic position of the Republic of Croatia. However, mostly foreign goods are spent on the Adriatic, as we know to say in blue and green Croatia, we have not connected Slavonia with the Adriatic. These issues are certainly to be taken into account by both the Parliament and the Croatian Government. I say once again, we are entering the European Union unprepared, as we have warned Croatian Labourists before, and the European Union market will profit by importing, in fact, that cheap, unquality goods will come to our market, and the most unquality food, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39392	Thank you very much. A new replica and a respected representative, Đuro Popiè. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39393	Thank you, Mr. President. Well with one part of you, of course, I agree with you, so the question is what is left of this policy in the last year and a half from the Croatian economy and Croatian exports. However, I wanted to say in my debate what is actually happening to that part of the Croatian economy that lives, which has survived and which has found its place in the European Union and in the world markets. So let me remind you, the main exporting partner of the Republic of Croatia are the member states of the European Union, so 60% of what we are exporting. So we have exports at about 22 billion euros, and that's important. And everything that will happen at that moment is important for that healthiest, most qualitative part of the Croatian economy. Of course, it is important and that part of 12% of total exports go to BiH and that is the main one, these are agricultural products and that is a problem that has not been solved in terms of the benefits that the Croatian economy had in relation to the CEFTA countries and that is something that could really be a big problem. But I am sure, therefore, that the chance that is now being opened when all barriers and customs and taxes end and more favourable certain tax regimes in certain countries that these 60% of Croatian exporters exporting to the European Union will continue to find their own interest and that they will be both easier and better and certainly will have a beneficial effect on the entire Croatian economy. The European Union is the largest exporter of goods and services, of course the biggest importer, the biggest market and the strongest still strongest total economy in the world, and I am sure those who have so far known to find their way to this market that certainly after the 1st of July life will be much easier for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39394	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39395	Dear colleague Popioč, it would be all right if we really believed and if practice showed that the free market is indeed a free market. The adoption of the Law on Cereals in Great Britain at the beginning of the 19th century opened the boundaries of the free market, that is the first time the term was used. This concept did not arise because it would be easier for small countries, to make it easier for producers, but to make as much profit as possible. Neoliberal capitalism is very much abused by the term free market. In that free market, they profit, you know it well as a businessman, always big, small asphyxiate. In Croatia, it is certain that some of the producers, those of the people who have curent goods for the European market, will be able to come out with some of the goods on the European market, but most of the Croatian economy is not curient on the European market, nor will it be, above all, with the amount of goods produced and placed on the market. I asked some producers how long it would take to produce goods to win a part of the European market. They said the investment in the ad to come, say, some food product to be placed in the UK is far greater than it's worth 10 years. That's what some businessmen said. Let's just say I talked to Director Coke about it when they were investigating the market. So let's not sell to the people of floscula that now that the 1.7th European market is opened, we're just gonna push in and everyone's gonna buy Windia's pizzas or I don't know what. They won't, because the big market is gonna run us over. The worst part is, we'll get much cheaper and much worse goods than it is because we didn't know because we're small enough to protect what we needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39396	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, ten minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39397	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This legislative proposal amending and supplementing the law on trade with the final draft law should only be technical compliance with EU rules. And I think that despite our good debate, we are actually wasting our time needlessly, because those who debated on behalf of the clubs have already shown that they will agree to this legislative proposal. But no matter what, I'd say a few words about this. It is true that 60% of Croatia's exports are already going to the EU, but the surplus that we are achieving with CEFTA countries, here is also 12% of exports to Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. 12% export quotas, as the Popiac cancer brings to Croatia clearly certain benefits. So, what did our negotiators and what did those who represented Croatia's interests and, with the knowledge that we are a CEFTA member do in order to eventually or at least within a time frame that would be explained to make it possible to extend or in some other form enable exports to CETA countries? Well, I'd say nothing. They just left it to this point on "i," so this legal proposal. So it's a simple point on the "I" store law that we're actually going to get what we're already on our way to get. Namely, when a colleague Vuksic speaks about the fact that we have had large trade chains with bofl to say goods in every way from food and onward entered deep and fiercely in Croatia for years, although we have not been a member of the European Union then I have to give an example of the goods which is a food item, so to speak, so the law defines beer. So then we have a malt in Nova Gradišca which every beer barley, i.e. sweet exports or exports to another country, although in the area of the Brod-Posavina County we do not have breweries, but we have sweets so that we can be one of the largest beer producers in the Republic of Croatia. It's not just one example of what Cat would say 70 years ago, "When big dogs fight, the kid goes under the table." So we, in fact, are actually going under the table by accepting these amendments and additions to the Law on Trade, and the flood of products in this order to say mostly foreign trade chains will continue as a tsunami. It's not a flood, it's a tsunami. And what exactly does Croatia get? He gets that he determines that instead of being the State Office for Trade Policy, he'll be laying down regulations and everything else and nothing else, because I in this law which, as he called him, is a fellow drinker technical synchronization, I don't see anything else. What's signed is signed. So, in negotiations with the EU, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39398	We've exhausted the list of registered representatives for the debate. We have one replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39399	Dear fellow Grubisic, you said one sentence at the beginning that perhaps we are wasting time needlessly or excessively. I don't think our assignment here in the Croatian Parliament is exactly what we're talking about. We warn of where everything has already been decided, because most have agreed to accept this law. You've seen one big problem that we've been talking about, which is the relationship to CEFTA, or to those producers that export to the CEFTA market. As far as we're prepared, how we're going to help them to continue to be with more expensive goods, so on the market, let's say that Bosnia and Herzegovina is competitive with other goods. I don't think we've found any solution, nor do I think the government has made an effort to make that decision. The other thing is, when we talk about it, about the goods that flooded our trade chains ask the domestic producers in what position they are subordinated to those producers that come beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Their goods are placed on the top shelf, paying the biggest penalty for the slightest mistake. Mostly domestic producers are being terrorized, they want to break out of these trade chains, demand the lowest price possible, with our goods having the highest quality. Therefore, the domestic prosciutto must retreat in front of the Italian prosciutto because it is trade chains with their contracts that domestic producers have to sign in order to even enter the trade chains. How did the state protect them? She didn't protect her at all. I'm talking about us looking forward to some kind of free trade. Freedom is gone, freedom here should be placed under alleged signs of supposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39400	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39401	Thank you very much. My colleague Vukšić, as you have seen and in the debate, fully agrees with your findings, with your facts that you have presented here and the fact that a really domestic producer, if he therefore wants to arrange a business with any trade chain, is located in one big pinch and in many conditions and conditions that the trading house puts before him, unlike those that import, or those companies that export to the Republic of Croatia goods which are neither close to quality nor in food terms, is not particularly close to the quality of our Croatian product. As far as CEFTA is concerned there is indeed a consensus of complete unpreparedness and confusion that will arise in the export of goods to CEFTA countries is indeed not going to say unimaginable but there will be quite certain disturbances that can also result in social unrest as we know for ourselves, as we see here in Croatia every day what is happening here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39402	Thank you, too. It is up to the head of the State Office for Trade and Policy, the representative of the proposing respected Denis Tchaiu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39403	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me just briefly answer a few questions and a few of the dilemmas that have been brought here today. As most speakers said at the outset, this is technical harmonisation. Technical harmonisation means so much that by joining the EU, the EU's trade policy becomes the sole competence of the European Commission and the European Commission is the one proposing regulations and leading negotiations on behalf of the Member States. However, this does not mean that each Member State therefore waives its sovereign rights in the area of trade policy. Trade policy every national policy is aligned together with 27, now 28 other Member States, and the result of these internal negotiations within the EU ultimately leads to the creation of EU rules applicable to all, as well as putting EU positions on the basis of which they are negotiated with third Member States. Speaking of which, the truth of 1.07 means the Croatian market is becoming the EU market. Right, that's 60% of our EU waste trade. Only one small thing may be here in this debate, perhaps it should also be mentioned that Croatia already has a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in place at the moment. According to the contract, for the vast majority of goods entering, that is, imports and exports from the Republic of Croatia have already been liberalised with the exception of perhaps a few products. And the fact is that from 1/07 it will change, so for these products, customs will change. However, it is simply a fact that Croatia is becoming part of the internal market. They are simply not things where you can treat Croatian goods differently when exporting to the CEFTA market compared to Slovenian or Austrian or German goods, etc. It would be almost like sending a shipment of any goods from Rijeka to Zagreb to treat it differently compared to the goods sent from Split to Zagreb. It's just that things can't change. When it comes to CEFTA, the fact that this regime is with CEFTA has been agreed was negotiated that these same negotiators had negotiated it once upon a time. But if we're talking about CEFTA and we're going back, let's take a few of us back to the data level, to some point. The fact is that 72 to 73% of Croatia's exports to CEFTA will take place after 1.07, under free trade conditions, there will be no customs duties on them. It is true that for one part of agricultural and food products the conditions change and the truth is that these conditions under the current agreements that exist in force between the EU and these countries will be unfavourable. However, as you said, the negotiations conducted by the European Commission with the CEFTA Member States are ongoing to take into account traditional trade by adjusting those contracts, meaning trade which is in force in this form between Croatia and those countries in order to be incorporated into these contracts in order to amend these contracts and to transfer, in some ways, the largest part of that food trade within those contracts in order to mitigate that transition, i.e. to facilitate the exit from the CEFTA and the application of these agreements between the EU and the CEFTA Member States. Where here, if I may add only one thing, is that we are not, Croatian negotiators are not the ones negotiating. The European Commission is negotiating. And not because we as a government or this or any previous government have simply given the European Commission to negotiate precisely for this reason that the EU's common trade policy is a common policy. So, of these negotiations, we approach negotiations and agreements that are in force between the EU and these countries and the EU. Of course, we are in contact and we are working in the best possible way to ensure that our interests, interests of our companies are respected and that we are both Government and representatives of food services are in regular contact. And they know what's being negotiated, they know most of what's being negotiated, and they're informed about what's going to happen anyway. In which we also forget one other thing, when we talk about the CEFTA market, there are already over 600 Croatian companies on the CEFTA market and only 300 in Bosnia. So this part is Croatian companies and Croatian brands are already well known there, our products are accepted. The fact is that our companies in their business policies were also planning and aware that the regime was changing and that they were adapting. The moment the results of the negotiations between the EU and CEFTA countries enter into force, that part will adapt and the contracts will start to apply. So the fact is that simply by entering the EU you simply cannot keep a special trade regime between Croatia as part of the internal market and a third Member State because Croatia is simply part of the EU's single market. For example, in 2004, when 10 countries joined the EU, there were also several of our neighbouring countries that were directly interested in changing the regimes that would result from their entry into the EU, such as Slovenia, Hungary. It also asks the question can I keep a special regime? No, they couldn't keep it simple if they became that part of the single customs union and you haven't changed that part. On the other hand, whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian negotiators are in constant contact with our producers, with the food industry, among other things, the Minister of Agriculture established a Food Industry Council in which representatives of all the most interested and debated measures and steps to bring together the Croatian food industry to bridge this moment in the best possible way and to continue to be as competitive both on the domestic market and on the regional market. Here I think there were some things that needed to be added to explain. So the arguments that the Croatian state has done nothing to protect Croatian producers, I don't think they stand in this particular case. The Croatian Government and the institutions of the Ministry and the State Office are in regular contact with our producers and are best able to find a solution within these defined conditions regarding the existence of this part of the internal market and that our products have a chance, our products are quality productive and the fact that our quality products will also be able to find a place on the shelves and on the market of EU Member States. But also what our producers are increasingly aware of is that there are conditions for better preferential, more favourable conditions for some third markets on which we were at the end of the day and where we have real chances and where some of them are already going, perhaps less than we should. However, the process is in progress and the Mediterranean market means North Africa, the Middle East and some other markets where perspectives are opened. Of course, you are always particularly concerned about the food industry's most favourable markets and the closest markets that you've been to, the markets that are closest to you, that's clear. However, regardless of the changes in the conditions that will occur at the time when the conditions or these negative changes will arise, Croatian products have been present for many years and are dominant in the region's markets. Products have quality, have marketing and these products will be accepted further, so I believe. Of course, it would be much more favourable for all of us and for our industry if the conditions of the current trade between Croatia and BiH, Croatia and Serbia, Croatia and other CEFTA countries were to be fully maintained, but unfortunately from the fact that we are becoming part of the EU's internal market, which makes us part of the customs union according to either legal or economic criteria is not possible. But what I think is useful to say is I think it's good to say here that we're having a debate and that we're within the framework of the fact that there's absolutely nothing going on. On the contrary, it is certainly done that these things are changing. But some things just can't be changed. If you become part of a legal regime that is accepted, which is in use, which is applied for 50 years, it is simply a fact that you can't just change it and adjust it from case to case. I am telling you, it was when they joined in 2004 and the requirements in Slovenia and Hungary to maintain the more favourable treatment they had with Croatia, but it was legally and economically not possible simply because the Hungarian and Slovenian markets became part of the EU's internal market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39404	Thank you too, Chief of State. Replications have been reported to your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39405	Dear counterpart Tchaiu, here we will now listen to every sentence from 1.7 here in the Assembly, but so says the EU. That's not true. There are exceptions in the EU, we were convinced by the Croatian public, the Croatian Parliament that there are no zero rates. We know we have zero rates in Europe. Those governments that fought for zero rates fought from big to small countries. The second thing you said, the European Commission is negotiating with CEFTA, but we can negotiate if we know about the European Commission. We need to fight, we understand things are over. When someone says so, the point of the negotiations is to negotiate. If there were no negotiations then you would be writing a law that you are, we begin to be a 1.7 part of European legislation then it would be written and there would be no more negotiations. Why are there negotiations in the first place? To negotiate. We know well that some countries negotiated much more favourable terms than agricultural products compared to land, owned, so countries knew what they were doing. What you're saying is that in BiH, I don't know how much you said 500 or 50 I didn't understand the companies that already exist, but there are those companies that are large exporters and who don't have in BiH businesses and are exporting goods. Could it be done? So it could not be compared to the EU or the European Commission. The Croatian government could have given some kind of stimulation to these exporters. Which one? It should have been suggested in which way. So, I think the producers are on their own and we're not what I said before, we're not ready for one. 7. our producers will not go well in the European and especially those in CEFTA where our goods collect up to 50%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39406	Thank you very much. The next replica is a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39407	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. President of the State's Office, any honor to technical harmonisation, the Stabilisation, Association and Liberalization Agreement, but the fact is that what you said in the area of agricultural and food products will be more difficult and complex conditions. And that's unfortunately a fact and I want to ask a question so where will it go, harder and worse for our farmer and food producer. And therefore, he is justifiably concerned that non-quality food will be imported and on all matters mentioned here as well. But we have therefore rightly warned to allow at least to continue on those foundations, to produce sufficient quantities of quality food. Why we have potentials. There's the biggest problem. And it's inadmissible that there's been a drop in food production over the past year and a half in so many proportions of milk. And now you're saying, even now the minister has appointed a food commission, a commission, so he has also appointed a commission for making and milk packages, to this day, and for this milk package, farmers lose 200 thousand kuna each day to produce milk. And we had a very good quality. And then one aflatoxin shows up and says, you see, farmers are guilty. So please, if it doesn't help already, don't take it away from us, there it is, there's a key question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39408	Thank you, too. The next replica is Honorable Representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39409	Thank you very much. I am reacting primarily to the beginning of your debate when you said that we did not give up sovereignty after a few minutes, you are deciding that the European Commission is negotiating, not us. Is that this is technical harmonisation, is that your statement, we can also review it, I understand you, is that this is technical harmonisation but it's never enough to point out the problem that comes out of this. Is that this cannot be solved with this, with this law, but with, the law, however, the fact is that the readiness that you have stated by our producers is that they move their products to those other countries. And what are the consequences for us now? Let's say I come to Sisak-Moslavina County where Gavrilovic is moving to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The consequence for us is that and the loss of jobs. It's also a budget charge. There's a series of consequences attached to each other. And it's not, I know that you can't answer with this material but it's not, that's not why we're not warning about what's consequences of these provisions, of these laws and of this kind of blind acceptance of everything that comes from... That we don't prepare. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We all know what will come, but there is simply a lack of, preparation, sufficient quality preparation by us, by the Croatian government primarily and therefore these companies are simply forced to do what they have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39410	Thank you, too. With this, this replica of the debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we will move on to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the laws on commercial societies, namely, the third point for technical reasons we will leave for discussion tomorrow morning, we will begin with it. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 345. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like the esteemed representative of Proposer Denis Chau to show himself. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39412	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39413	Thank you very much. It's the only amendment. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most 108 votes in favour and 3 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade in the Text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. And now: - Final proposal of the Law amending the laws on commercial societies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 359; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The motion for an act, you've received the bill into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Deputy justice minister respected Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39415	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. This change we propose is not substantial but we hope and we are confident that it will improve and facilitate the start of business in Croatia. In addition, it is necessary in view of the fact that we are soon becoming a member of the European Union. We have had limited choice of language and, when registering, that is, the establishment of companies and since 1993 in the Company Act we have the provision that the company of the company should be in Croatian. That rule has been changed twice in 2003 we determined that the company must be on a Latin letter and in 2007 we had an addition where we introduced the possibility of Arabic numbers. Exceptionally, the company is allowed to enter words, some words of the dead language, i.e. Latin or Greek, while words in other languages can only be entered under certain conditions. In practice, these restrictions have led to great difficulties and all those involved in this part of business or company registration know that, in fact, for the start of business in Croatia, the greatest art was to come up with the name of a company that is not already in use and to wait for a solution to the Register of the Commercial Court for the approval of what the entrepreneur would have chosen. We have analysed the parallel arrangement of other European countries, only the Republic of Slovenia has a limit to the Slovenian language for the company, while other countries do not restrict the founders to the exclusive choice of their own language. We have therefore proposed to leave such a restriction on the language of the company and we propose that the amended provision allows for the name of the company in Croatian and the Latin letter as it was or in the official language of the Member States of the European Union and the Latin letter, with the use of Arabic numbers as it is. If we're talking about whether or not we could go beyond this, I don't think so. What binds us, and these are not only the wishes but also the directives and rules of the establishment of companies in Europe, is that we act as other members of the European Union do, especially because the one who is going to start business will choose a country where it is more favourable for him, therefore, and in order to avoid it. We have proposed an emergency procedure for this change precisely because it is the one that should facilitate the start of business, which is one of the assumptions or criteria that are assessed in the observation of how business in Croatia can be started. Well, here's what we're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39416	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Minister of Justice. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to take a word with the reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going according to this proposal by the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39417	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a small and short amendment to the Company Act, I'd say it's a necessity. It is the only reason why we would not agree simply because it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which in its proposal should, in fact, introduce a provision that would speak of whether it is a minor amendment or a non-essential amendment of the law that can go into emergency procedure, so that everything and everything is not explained by important economic and economic reasons and by speeding up the economic progress that this amendment will certainly not be. But I would say that this is one necessity which will first and foremost make it easier for economic operators to choose the name of the company, but certainly also for commercial courts in registration because they were often in doubt, given that the existing law provided that the company must be in Croatian and Latin letters, but that it may contain certain foreign words if they make up the name, i.e. the company of a member of society, a slave or service mark of a member of a society protected in the Republic of Croatia, its society registered in the Republic of Croatia, etc. or if these foreign words are common in Croatian. Well then, in order to avoid confusion and not to think that the company's current names were in Croatian, then we wouldn't have a string, for example Europatrade, Intereuropa, Adriatic-tours, John Commerce etc., which is all the names of the companies that are properly registered in Croatia. That's why I'm saying that actually these changes clear up this legitimate situation and make it easier for commercial courts to work on registration. We have heard of the practice of the European Union, namely that only Slovenia has this rigid approach to seek the name of a company or company in Slovenian, and therefore we only adapt to the practice of almost all members of the European Union. We must bear in mind that our companies will also go out on a European and foreign market, that their name must be both marketingly acceptable and understandable and beyond Croatia's borders. What is important and what may not remain undetected, we here only talk about the name of the company which is therefore the name, the company consists otherwise of the indication and therefore this is a sign of the company's name, so the company consists of the Company's Law on Commercial Companies of the company's name, but also indications of the subject of the business. This indication of the subject-matter must be clear, must not confuse business matters and must also contain a form of organisation, so whether it is a shareholder company, a limited liability company, a public company, etc., it must contain a company. These amendments propose that the name of the company must be indicated in the Croatian language and in the Latin letter, so the obligation of the Latin letter to understand or in the official language of the Member State of the European Union and the Latin letter has been retained. And you can use Arabic numbers. And this is an important part of paragraph 1, so the other ingredients of the company must be in the Croatian language and Latin letter, which means that the name must be, if at all it can be spoken of in the Croatian or foreign language, but only the name must be in the Croatian or European Union language, the Member States of the European Union, but it remains a provision that the other components of the company, which is the subject of business, must be in the Croatian language and in the Latin letter, which is important to be understandable to the participants in economic and legal transport. And here are so many of these changes that should be supported by the Croatian Democratic Community club will support them. In this regard, these two other amendments in the second paragraph, which then differs from the foreign words of the EU Member States, so the language of the EU Member States and other languages, is beyond that. However, the second paragraph remains, which will then allow again under certain conditions as an exception that, in addition to those languages, the Croatian language and the language of the EU Member States, some words of other foreign languages may be used, and again if they make up the name or company of a company or a trade mark or service mark. There will therefore continue to be very diverse names in the trade register of trade courts. But here is the fact that Croatian companies are going to go out and go out easier on markets outside Croatia and that it was difficult. Because also the provision of the Law on Commercial Companies that the company must be clearly distanced from the company of another trader, i.e. a company and that it is already becoming a problem to find different names, and this Croatian language was in this sense a limiting factor. Here's what we're going to support is the adoption of this little amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39418	Thank you very much. One notice. The president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament schedules a meeting of the Committee today at 14:00 in the hall of Stjepan Radić, 133/I. Please respond to the call. It is now up to the club of representatives in the Croatian Labour Assembly and respected representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39419	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed representative of the motionors, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what my colleague Lovrin said, and we could briefly say that there's actually a lot of things that don't change, because, despite the laws, we've allowed some kind of entrepreneurial creativity, and here we've allowed entrepreneurs to decide for themselves what their company's name is, or their company, and all of them, in the hope that with one name, they'll make a good brand that will not only on the Croatian market, but also on the European market, but definitely on the world market, become recognizable and as such welcome for every user or customer of their services. What I am here, maybe forced me to answer, say two, three sentences about this law is in the explanation that the problem that many people face when they decide on a particular name is that there is already a company with the same or similar company in the court register. Thus, the choice of names became a hard-to-be impediment to start business. I think that maybe this is the principle of one sentence thrown at a law says a lot more about who wrote it from the very problem she wants to detect. I think DTR is the least of the problems with the name, that Kamenski's least problem is the name, that the DIOKI, who was present on the world market, is the least business problem and business name. I think Vartex's least problem is his name. So we can't say that powerlessness has suddenly become a problem of entrepreneurship and a problem that solves entrepreneurs one part of the start-up of their business. As simple as certain things seem to us, unfortunately, they are not, and as much as we want to make it easier for new entrepreneurs in any way, so that they can choose the name of their company that suits them most in the world of trade. I also don't think we should talk so easily about the name being something that makes it easier to run the business itself. I wonder here also why this is only important because we are becoming a member of the EU. I think it's also one of the unimportant, I think it's a problem. Because it is with all those who do business and who export outside the EU borders, how much it will contribute to them again or how difficult their business will be. In any case, it's good to make it easier for us to make any changes and any changes. But we think that these amendments to the Law on Commercial Society, and in practice that already exists in Croatia, we don't really change much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39420	Thank you. Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39421	Well, here I was hoping that around this law we'd have a full consensus, you support the law, and thank you for that. But I need to replicate on this part where you've touched problems in the business of other trading entities. So it is certain that the name, change of name, or liberalisation of the regime around the company, will not in itself lead to the renaissance of the Croatian economy. Well, no one has the illusion that this will happen, but there will be extraordinary relief in business. Now I'm talking like someone who was a lawyer until yesterday. Well, we've been waiting months for the company to register for name issues. We had to go to Slavonski Brod because there the court had a more liberal regime to register the name and then move the companies to Istria. Is that what it takes? The companies registered as "Golden Cat" because some other reasonable name was gone. Surely only because of this law will Croatia not experience an increase in GDP by 20%, save God, but this is a necessary step and a good step. And this sentence that you're talking about is quite accurate and the proposer has more than correctly described the real state of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39422	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39423	We have already detected that you and I do not personally agree on a lot of questions and that we interpret things differently. I just wanted to say that a sentence that made the choice of the name difficult to get in the way of the business itself, and I don't think that's true because there are more obstacles than what a particular company is going to call it. You mention "Golden Cat," so that "Golden Cat" will still remain "Golden Cat" only now we will talk about it in English either in French or in Italian. Therefore, only the name remains the same as I understand but can now use that name, i.e. we have a greater opportunity to find the best solution in the languages used in the EU as an entrepreneur for what I think would be the best quality and best represented by that entrepreneurship that I personally want to deal with as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39424	On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39425	I would like to thank the honourable Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. These amendments and additions of the law therefore focus on amendments to the provisions in the name of the company. When we talk about the company of a company in the context of changes and additions that are proposed, we should bear in mind primarily some basic principles that set out the legal arrangements of the company. First is the principle of truth. According to this principle, therefore, the data mentioned in the company must be true, and it is also expressed in the provisions on... companies which are referred to that the composition of the company must correspond to the real state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The company must also not provide information that does not correspond to this condition, and company data must not lead third parties to the wrong conclusion on the characteristics of the company shown by the companies. The second is the principle of diversity and exclusion. According to the principle of diversity, the company’s status must therefore be such that they do not create any confusion about the subject matter of society, the impression of identity or association with other companies and therefore do not insult the rights of intellectual industrial property or other rights of other persons by their use. It is important to note that differences must be such that they are quickly and easily detected. On the basis of the principle of company exclusion, the register of the same court cannot therefore be entered in the company which is the same as the company already registered or the company which is clearly no different from the one already registered to which the registration court is essentially keeping an eye on the official duty. However, the real situation regarding the company's determination was such that there was a threat and the principles of this truthfulness and the principles of diversity and exclusion because there was simply no longer enough company names available to ensure therefore effective and complete compliance with these principles required when entering the company in the court register. According to this principle, the composition of companies must be such that they do not create any confusion about the subject matter of society, the impression of identity or association with other companies and that there is no threat to the rights of other persons, so a considerable problem has actually arisen for entrepreneurs when trying to register companies when a large number of names of companies have already been registered. And indeed, in real life, entrepreneurs faced a big problem, but at the very beginning of up, just starting a business with a formal problem where they had to think and think about how to call the company, and that it had a normal meaningful name and that it depicted the business of their society. Therefore, we can really conclude that so far the laws have come into conflict with life practice because it has proved to be rigid and restrictive for entrepreneurs. I had a chance to talk to several entrepreneurs who just pointed out this problem to me. As stated in the proposal for a law, entrepreneurs themselves managed in different ways. Finally, I would say that even the registration courts did not fully respect the principle of diversity of the company's ingredients, but in practice allowed the company's records at the same court and which are essentially not significantly different. In the end, there are quite a number of companies with minor differences in the name which in real life leads to confusion about the identity of these economic operators. Therefore, such practice can be talked about a certain level of non-compliance with the principle of truthfulness of the company which is referred to that the components of the company must correspond to the real state. Furthermore, as our companies will now operate smoothly and on the EU market, it is certainly good to introduce this much more flexible solution in terms of the company's name. Well, if, for example. We intend to start a company that, for example, to be directed towards the Swedish market is certainly an extenuating circumstance that this company can now be registered in the Swedish language. And in general, when we have a company that wants to do business mostly abroad, it may certainly be a more expedient circumstance to register now, for example. in English, which most of the population in the EU recognise if they do not already understand. Although, of course, there is now the possibility that the company can be entered in translation into one or more foreign languages but so far the company in a foreign language and the letter company could therefore only be used together with the company in Croatian and Latin letters, which then leads to some rough construction. Of course, now a certain relief on this issue will also be the fact that, from 1.07.2013, provisions on a European society that will therefore be able to be unified for the entire EU area are in force. The importance of this provision is now broader than the application of the company itself because the Company Act most fully regulates the company and its provisions apply to other entities of the legal and natural person, as is the case with cooperatives which... refer to the provisions of the Company Act. Therefore, the introduction of these amendments should be welcomed in any case because it contributes to the principle of truthfulness and the principle of diversity applicable in deciding whether a company can be entered in the court register or not. There is even more to be welcomed because it will significantly facilitate entrepreneurs' problem of finding the name of the company they could enter in the court register, and that the company has a meaningful name associated with their activity. This is in any case a step towards rationalisation and the SDP club supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39426	Thank you. The replica of Sandra Petrovic-Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39427	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's a fellow Pandek you mentioned again the company registration problem that company registration is actually an obstacle to the start of business. I agree with you here. I agree with you for the reason that I myself witnessed in practice great problems and longevity precisely because of the title precisely because of the selection and complicated procedure when choosing the company's very name. Therefore, the procedure for the registration of a company in commercial courts could only be realistically slowed down because of the reason for finding an adequate name which the judge in the commercial court would then want to register, or when he will find it satisfactory or that it meets legal requirements and that the company as such can be registered. Every businessman at the start of business is aware of the Latin saying "Nomen est omens". It focuses on the market, examines it before, and accordingly wants to find the best company to be presented in the best possible way. Almost never in practice met the situation that from the first thought of entrepreneurs could have been accepted in a commercial court as his company. So we had various compromises from the initial idea of entrepreneurs to completed registration so that the company ended up being registered in a completely different way than how the entrepreneur imagined it. That's why I fully support this position of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39428	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in line Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39429	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So it seems that so far the biggest problem in the business of Croatian companies has been the name. It was not, for example, 245 parafiscal duties or new reading in the media 520, but I do not know what 520 is, but 520 is mentioned more and more often, but it was impossible to register a company under a foreign name. And we're talking about big liberalisation today because we're going to introduce foreign names and we've seen a European market open before, and now we're going to freely call our companies in Sweden. I ask the question why not Turkish? If someone is exporting why we are not more liberal than the EU, we have not allowed the company to carry that name freely where it operates. Why is it that if someone is exporting goods to the Asian market, why can't they call a company by the name of that country, by the language of that country? Why can't he do that? Those who have carefully read the Law on HRT will see that HRT should have 20% in Croatian because it is prescribed in the EU, for example, by the UK. So imagine in Great Britain they will be threatened with Croatian. We are threatened, Croatian is threatened by English, is threatened by other foreign languages but certainly that French, English, Spanish are not threatened by small languages. We the more third world, or third world countries, have become an unfavorable concept. It looks like we're getting rid of that notion, and we're a country that can compete right in that area. In an area that neoliberal capitalism massacres, it draws everything that can be exhausted and destitute so much that hunger has never been greater, but we don't talk about it anymore. The most important thing for us is what the company will be called and we say what I fully agree with, we need to liberalize, but we're so proud that we're liberal. We are not liberal but simply taking over what the EU tells us. The EU tells me that we are only taking over what is our guideline from Brussels or what Brussels has possibly done and we are doing it without guidance. I'm up for something else. I advocate full liberalisation of the name or what the Slovenians did, to be in Croatian. The Croatian language should be protected and I think the least problem is how companies will work. There are some Croatian names on behalf of itself, names that are already inscribed on the European and world market. We know that didn't bother you. It didn't bother the textile or conditioning companies who also wanted to change in the wave of Croatianization of everything and everything in the 1990s. And that's when those business people said don't do it because we're already on the world market under that name for 40 years. So I don't think it's crucial, I think this is a technical provision entirely, a technical provision that obeys Brussels. And I say from one. We'll listen to 7 here in Parliament, but that's what Brussels says. No, we'll have who, I don't know what, I've always asked for the name of what's called what's being put on the horse so I don't see either left or right, so it looks like we'll have it on our heads in the House. And we will always say but forgive me, it may be bad, but so says the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39430	We're moving on to replicas. Sandra Petrovic-Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39431	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's colleague Vuksic, I am simply fascinated by your concern about the protection of Croatian language in this amendment to the law. I can't see, I don't see any problem in liberalizing this law at all. And just as I don't see where you pulled the parallel between facilitating business and the problems Croatian companies have in the business itself. So the company is not the biggest problem Croatian companies have in their business, it is we know insolvency and enormous debt. The company is a problem when starting business. Therefore, these remove unnecessary administrative barriers that will greatly help Croatian entrepreneurs not only register a company in the Republic of Croatia but also allow them to use their language on the European Union market when establishing the company itself to better manage the European Union market. So Brussels hasn't told us what to do in this case. He didn't tell us you need to liberalize. And it's not something we do because of companies based in Member States, it's something we do for Croatian companies so that they can manage better on the European Union market that we become on July 1st. We are not becoming a common market with Turkey but are becoming a common market with the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39432	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39433	Here's a colleague in the law who writes this, that's the choice, I'm not going to quote the whole sentence: that's how the choice of names became a difficult obstacle to starting a business. But business, business, not companies, starting a company, so make a difference. Starting business. And the other thing about how we, as we or we, don't know how you said, became a great protector of Croatian language, in the first place we are a party that has also proposed in the Assembly of the Law on the Protection of Use of Croatian Language. Therefore, anything that is Croatian if we protect why should we not protect the Croatian language? I'm not saying at this point that this law is bad, but you don't need to push into your chest that it's a big liberalisation, let's be more liberal than the European market. If we become a part of it, you say that we are part of it, now we are becoming a European market, means together, we enter the common European market, but I guess we will trade with the rest of the world. Or do you think we're going to stay closed like we used to say, if it weren't for no more, they don't matter to the CEFTA members, that not all countries that are outside the European Union matter. That's all I've been talking about and allow for diversity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39434	Replica Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39435	An esteemed colleague, in order for a company to start doing business to make certain advances, is one of the key entries in the trade register. By registering, the company acquires legal personality and can begin to operate. In order for the company to be registered in the court register, it must have a company. The company consists of the name and form under which the company appears on the market. A limited liability company, a stock company, a command company or the like. At this point in Croatian courts is the biggest problem of enrolment in the court register of the name of the society. The number of names in the Croatian language makes the use of funny methods. The invention of nicknames, reaching out to Latin, Greek, Sanskrit dictionaries, to prove that a certain word existed in one of the extinct languages, months are lost so that the problem with the name of the company could be entered into the court register and that it could begin to operate. This law will not save the Croatian economy, unfortunately, I would like to do this to such a small change, but we will allow entrepreneurs who want to start working to make it at least a little easier for them. And we don't do it for Brussels, we do it for Croatian entrepreneurs. And as for the third market performance, this law will make it a little easier for them. But even now, there is the possibility of translation of a company on the foreign language and enrolling that translation into the court register. So the translation can be both Turkish and Chinese. But this law is primarily about making enrolment easier, making enrolment faster and easier to start business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39436	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39437	Dear colleagues, I thank you for teaching you how to start a company, I started a company myself, and I chose a name as well. What you're saying and your colleagues are completely illogical. For what? Well, it's about imagination. The thing is, how much one language allows. Now you think in second, in Swedish we'll be much more imaginative. I don't even know what you're talking about. I think you now claim that it will be easier to name in English or we will have the first part of the name in Croatian, the second part in English, so it will be fantastic. So I haven't heard one, not a single business man who said he had a major hindrance to his business name. I've never heard of one. Nowhere has it ever been mentioned, but normally the names should now be mentioned in the explanation that it was very difficult to register companies because our Croatian language is very poor. That's where you're wrong. It's probably poor imagination, it's unimaginative people, and then we need 15 other languages so we can give our company a name easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39438	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39439	Thank you. My dear colleague, I would not agree that the introduction of these amendments and the addition of the law is an expression of service to the European Union or to anyone outside. I think that criticism is extremely harsh and it is my personal impression that the criticism has been made just for some criticism, that a bill which is essentially rational could be criticised. This is not any revolutionary change, of course it will not bring huge and revolutionary shifts to facilitate entrepreneurs, but still one rational change that will make a certain relief in the start-up of the company. In the real life that my colleagues used to say, it was noticed that there were problems in finding an adequate name that would reflect at least the basic purpose of the company, its basic activity or thus facilitating the placing on the market of a particular product or service. We can, of course, create thousands of names in our imagination, but what's actually not going to paint what the entrepreneur wants to deal with, it's not going to make his business easier. This small step in rationalization, a small step towards facilitating entrepreneurship, but I think it should be supported, and not sharply criticized just maybe to say that criticism exists, that criticism must exist. As for the use of Croatian language in any case, sometimes it bothers me when I come to the store, so I see there on our products inscriptions in English, but not because I'm afraid it might endanger the Croatian language but because my parents simply don't know what it means. The language is a living thing, I think it can be difficult... by regulations, regulations and laws, it can be protected by education in schools and families, and these provisions that are... the language of me... bothers me when we have these products in English, primarily because some of our people don't understand it, to protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39440	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39441	I don't know why it bothers people on this right when someone else thinks and wants to make sure of something else. Now I see justifiable what HDZ did at the beginning when he asked for a session to be interrupted. You're not so loud in defense when it comes to other people's rights and really democratisation of society. Let someone have the right to and protect the Croatian language, use of Croatian language and to be able to advocate it. Yes, Labourists because Labourers have proposed a law on which you and HDZ and SDP have rejected. The HDZ actually didn't want to discuss it, and the SDP refused that language. So why does it bother you? And I'd just like to hear the information, if someone can tell me how many companies have been rejected in company registration, if there's any information. Not that much, little, which means a lot, could be 10, and it could be 1,000 a lot, which means a lot. So find me some research and how many business people have led to this being a very big problem in their business.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39442	We're continuing the debate. Comrade Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39443	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. Much has been said so far in this debate, and it seems to me that there is actually one key information missing, which is that the initiative to change this law came from a small number of our start-up companies, primarily those dealing with information and information technologies or develop platforms or different services based on different IT services. They launched a campaign several months ago primarily through social networks to change this law, not because of what Brussels is asking us to do, or as someone said that we are changing this law to please Brussels, not because we love our Croatian more or less than that of a small number of companies that have managed to place their products, which operate on foreign markets, we allow them to develop their brands and to respect them as such. You today have, for example, successful companies,... go home,... e.g.,..., some new companies that appear, Backway,... and similar, companies that get investors in international start-up competitions, get rewards and they couldn't, operate primarily except in the Croatian and global markets because such platforms that are engaged and they couldn't function as such as legal entities in the Republic of Croatia. Of these and such companies, of those and such entrepreneurs who are more advanced, who are exporters have also come an initiative to change this law and that is the only truth. No conspiracy, no conspiracy, no blackmail, no such thing. It is simply about making it possible for people who are already working, who are successful in their business, who have recognised brands on foreign markets to be recognised in the Republic of Croatia so that their companies under that name are registered in the Republic of Croatia and that taxes are paid to the Republic of Croatia, not to register in other countries and then pay taxes there, without having anything to do with us. Because it's about exporting brains, not exporting people to other markets. And that's the only true initiative to change this law. It is okay to have certain rules restricting company names to avoid misleading consumers and to allow the distinction of individual companies, i.e. business entities. I agree with the proposal that the so far solution of the Law on Commercial Companies, which speaks of the name of a company that was limited to Croatian, i.e. dead Latin languages, has brought some of these entrepreneurs into trouble in Greece. Some of them are my friends, some of them I know. They came up with all these English names that were actually the shortcuts of some Latin phrases and lost to that month. And that's what's unnecessary here, and that's why I support that in this sense this entire system is liberalized and spread to other languages. However, colleagues and colleagues when we discuss this, I agree, so it is a good thing that it has been expanded into EU languages. I ask why only EU languages? Why not some other languages? Companies operating today on the global market, and today every successful company needs or operates on the global market. The most successful companies, he has names that aren't in any language. Google? What language is that? Tumble? What language is that? Twitter? What language is that? Flicker? What language is that? These are the most successful companies, not in any language. So, I'm standing by as a representative, so we need to protect our language, but we need to protect our brains and allow people to work. If facilitating the appointment of the company is one of those steps absolutely, but you should do a few more steps. It would be good, Madam Deputy Minister, if trade courts had an electronic published public register of all names, if people didn't have to spend months going to see if it had a name, not a name, but if I were to say a nice Croatian word right now Google the name and see if that name already exists or doesn't exist, etc. etc. But I repeat, I would like, therefore, to think in the future that we are fully detiberating, i.e. becoming completely liberal foreign, dead, existing, non-existent language, etc. Of course while on the Latin or a certain Latin transliteration, but that's actually what's described, control, etc. And being what's kind of what's really important in the whole story. There are other things. It's enough with some of the referents, because it seems to me that my colleague Grbin mentioned it in one of his replicas that it depends a lot on individual courts to respond to certain names. Some of them are more benevolent, some of them are here to say it more stringently, and there is a need to even the practice. Some of these information companies have in their name a shortcut lab, like a lab. Some have been denied admissions to a company on the grounds that they do not engage in chemistry. So that's the kind of thing that happens. So, let me cut it short and maybe I'll make a point. So, the primary initiative of this law came from our small companies that are recognized on the world market and it's good to liberalise the law. I would personally advocate liberalizing it completely, and in some other way, there are other ways that some controls would be done that certain people think control should exist. And at the very end. The care of the Croatian language must not be and cannot be exclusively formal and in a way that we speak of it by and protecting, in fact, the wrong things for those whom we should not protect. The fight for Croatian language and its perseverance is the only thing spoken in Croatian in all its wealth in all the idioms of Croatian language on all occasions where we, as original Croatian speakers, can do so. We won't protect it by the name of the company or any of these other things. But I repeat, of course, that most people will register companies in Croatia in Croatian because they operate on our market. But why don't you open up space and those other teams more than that, which is primarily about export companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39444	Thank you. Moving to replicas, Igor Coleman first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39445	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Lugaric, I sign your debate from beginning to end, and that's why I volunteered to step up. It is not clear to me at all which times in the Assembly why we are discussing some things or in Croatia. This is one of the things that I don't even understand why we're discussing. If I have a private firm, if I've estimated that this firm will do business with that name the way I want it, then what's anyone's honest concern about what language that company's called in? So that's my right. I go out to that market with my capital, with my risk, with my project, with my idea. No one cares what that company's name is. And on the other hand we have a situation that you said well in the last part of this part when we use Croatian, then we use it very often wrong, and then we have bakeries. Oh, no? We have bakeries, for example, and no one cares about that. But this is a big problem. So I absolutely agree with everything you've said and I'm joining this idea of completely liberalizing the use of language. And why, for example, would a Chinese restaurant have to be called in the EU language? He doesn't have to. It doesn't have to be called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39446	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39447	Thank you. I'll start the replica with one question. You mentioned Google, Twitter, and I don't know what. Do you think you, colleague Lugaric, that the company's success depends on the name? I'm not done yet, just wait a minute. So you also have a series of failed companies that have a sound name. So, in the opposite direction entirely. And now to claim that the language of my tribe, and I suppose yours, is so poor that we cannot invent the name of the company and that it cannot be done successfully because the company bears a Croatian name. Well, that's funny, not to say sad. What do you mean the company can't succeed? Well, you'll be talking to your business partners around the world in some English, French, Polish, Chinese if you like. Well, it doesn't matter what kind of name the company has but it's something else entirely. It's business, business relations, and everything that goes when a company is founded on why it exists and what it does and how it works, not the company's name. Well, the company's name is completely irrelevant if she's going to do business successfully. That's my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39448	Replication response, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39449	My colleague Grubisic, if the company's success depended on the name, I think it would be not only us but all other highly successful business entities. Of course, the company's success does not depend on its name, but the company's name is its first identification and, in fact, the first marketing association. We're not talking about all the companies here. I believe that the large majority of companies in the Republic of Croatia will continue to register in Croatian. Here we are talking about companies that place products on a foreign market that have two options or register a company with a foreign name in that other country in which they operate or register a company in Croatia in a foreign language and continue to operate from Croatia and on the foreign market. Imagine a company called "The Flower House" that deals with the export of flowers. It would be great to have a flower house in Great Britain or Germany or Hungary. They'd understand 'em for crazy. And in some companies, in some dams, in some businesses that it's important and depends on the performance of business. Of course, in 99% of the cases, no. It is only a matter of making it possible for everyone to work in ways that they do with their own entrepreneurial initiative and by investing their own entrepreneurial risk find that it is, in fact, the most optimal or optimal for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39450	Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39451	My colleague Lugarić is very short. I agree with this sentence of yours, which you said, let's be liberal, let's be liberal in other languages. That's exactly what I said in the debate, or in the replicas I was talking about. Yes, why limit yourself to the EU only? If in Chinese, why should it be limited to EU languages?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39452	Replication response, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39453	My colleague Vuksic cannot resist asking you in this replica does this mean that you are actually giving up that bill of law that you gave up at the beginning of a mandate that is directly contrary to what you are now in favour of?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39454	And the last replica, colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39455	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here we see from this debate at the beginning it seemed like no one would discuss this law, and you see what a fruitful debate. We have heard all sorts of proposals, from going into greater liberalisation and not being limited to the languages of the EU Member States until we remain in Croatian. We heard that, too, colleague Lugaric from you, that the reason and reason for these changes was the proposal on social networks of several information companies that requested it. In the light of the law, we see that the proposer says that this was a broad problem for the economy and that many businessmen could not register their company. That is why I am also calling for us to pass laws in a regular procedure because here is a proposal from many of these interesting proposals to take into account the final draft of the law and this enlargement in terms of globalisation and trade relations with a wider circle of countries from the EU to extend it to other world languages. And that's why I'm interested in whether the reason for these several information companies that are good at going to the foreign market is to sell it, and something we're earning what their share of GDP is in our national GDP, so that it's a reason for an emergency procedure to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy as our Rules of Procedure says. But there's something more important I'd like to say, and there's what I'm saying is that the name in the company is the name of the name difference from the indication of business. The practice of commercial courts and otherwise the problem of applying the law in Croatia is that each court or each Office of State administration applies the law differently. So, uh... the one you were talking about on behalf of yourself has nothing to do with the company's business label and absolutely no reason to refuse. And that's why you have to make a distinction in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39456	Thank you. Replication response, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39457	Very short. In this second part, I agree, for this first part, I'm sorry that you didn't listen more carefully to certain initiatives after they showed up they were arguing and on social networks is what I said. But it's less important. What is more important to me that there seems to be a consensus here in the Croatian Parliament today that we need an old-fashioned provision that the name of the company, i.e. its name should be exclusively in Croatian and in one of the dead languages we should actually expand and allow all those people, regardless of whether they are small, are large, whether they affect a large percentage of Croatian GDP or whether they employ two or three people to actually work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39458	And we continue the debate. Comrade Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39459	Thank you very much. In Slavonski Brod, which has been spoken of today as a city where there is a relatively more liberal, free to say Croatian, it can make decisions on the name of the company there are a number of shops called "Yao, yao". I don't know if it's a Croatian name for a company, it's written with an ipillon, so it wouldn't be rabid, it could be j, but this is from an ipillon. Now I can't figure out if it's just a Croatian name, how did it come to be registered by such a company? Unfortunately, today I have to talk about company names regardless of what might be a commercial for these companies, but right now we're talking about names and I can't avoid the name of the company. Furthermore, we have a company, a company called either Croatia in Latin or Croatia in English or Croacie on French airlines. I do not know which language it is registered in and how it exists at all, and if we said it must be in Croatian. Consum, ask the average citizen what the word consummation means, so we'll see what answers you. So it's this law on amending the Law on the Commercial Society on actually internationalization of company terms and it's already pretty much done in the good part and here's actually this point on and when we're going to get all the companies that register in Croatia mostly in foreign languages. And I don't want to believe it, and I can't believe Mrs. Lugaric when she says she believes that she will, however, and as some prime ministers have called and today they are calling for banks, etc. for lower interest, they appeal, call for meals, banks on lower interest, and this cannot believe that the owners of companies will be guided by patriots to register companies with a Croatian name. It's a little hard to believe. In particular, because here we have here today discussions that claim that the company’s very name speaks about what it does and what its basic activity is. In Slavonski Brod, I must say again in my city, we have an inn called the Pyramid, but we also have a Cemetery Society called the Pyramid. We have two companies called Phoenix. What does that say about all this now? How do you explain these things? The Croatian language is the 24th language, when I say equal, then I reiterate that stronger because it is fully equal in the EU. If he is equal in the EU, and he is and will be since 1 July, then why this debate in the first place? Why now and for what? And we can see that so far, a large number of companies have a foreign language title. Croatia Airlines, Konzum, so what brings this question now. Here it is stated in a legal proposal that all countries have actually internationalised the terms of the companies when they are entered. And it says that Slovenia did not allow it. And what was wrong with her? What are Slovenia's sanctions for that? Nothing, no sanctions. What are we talking about here today? In fact, it is alluded to, I would say, poverty in Croatian but not directly, but directly. We cannot remove the name of the company from Croatian slogans from Croatian words, etc., no. Well, there are just so many companies in Croatia that there is nothing more to make up for than we have to go to foreign languages. And once again, I stress, no company's success is related to the company's name but to the work of its employees, with the business and business capabilities of its workers and managers and administrations of any company. That's why I didn't speak for the club, but I don't think I do, but I do know that the HDSSB club won't be for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39460	Replica Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39461	We've been through this before, but we should do it again. We are not talking about the Croatian language today but about the needs of the Croatian economy of Croatian entrepreneurship. We are talking about the needs of those entrepreneurs who, by this law, will facilitate the start of business and market access. You were talking about internationalization. What's wrong with internationalization? Today, I can access the market for China, India, the United States on one click of the mouse. Then why wouldn't it be possible for me, as my colleague Coleman said, to do better in those markets under a name that would suit me there? If I choose to operate on the Croatian market and decide to sell windows for example, I will call my company Window d.o.o., but if I choose to access the Italian market so why can't you make it easier for me and let me in a language that is equal to the Croatian of 1.7, as you have rightly noticed, act under the word window or in Italian language. For what? It's just one aspect of this here, but the main aspect is that you obviously didn't face as much as we do from law enforcement, the problem with registration, imagine the problem with registration was the name if we from Istria paid off to go to Slavonia, register the company so we could start doing business. So give it to me if we help an entrepreneur with this law to start doing business and make a profit, so we've already done a lot. And we won't help once, but for tens or hundreds or thousands of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39462	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39463	My friend Grbin, the company isn't going to register abroad because someone here won't accept her name or I don't know what. Companies have gone abroad before, or where tax policy is different or some other business conditions, not because the company's name was not accepted by the net. So business conditions in another country were more favourable, and you know for a fact that our athletes and others were leaving, and today they have seats in some other countries, etc. So it's not about the name of the company, I'm saying again, it's about something else. And today you have come now it's not in line with today's debate, but you have companies that are registered in Vukovar, a man lives in Slavonski Brod, we know why. Tax policy area of special state care, so people go there to register the company and this. They're going to register a company where it's more favourable and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39464	Replica Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39465	I agree with you that it is not all in the name of the company, that I agree that the name is not the main factor in the success of a particular company, but if some choose it and as long as companies do business by law, they meet their obligations towards workers, according to the state, according to suppliers, according to their business partners, anyone, I don't care what they are called and what language they are called. I think it's something that we should all agree on rather than actually discuss here what even affects business,... makes it difficult in the present case, nor does it actually in any way make it more or less legal or I don't know how. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, let me repeat, as long as the company does business by law, it meets its obligations, I don't give a shit what language it's called in. And let him call whatever he wants for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39466	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39467	Yes, yes, colleague Lugarich, that's right, she can be called a window, as a colleague of the Grbin says, and can also be a phenestre, or I don't know how, whatever you want, or humble can be called, come on... Whatever. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if she fills her own, exactly like that, but what does she do when she has a window? Well, that's what I'm asking you, Mrs. Lugaric. Yes, here's business in the Croatian state where you... The administration that it takes 500 papers and I don't know what kind of papers to open a company, how much paper they need to take out, so that's important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can't open a company here in half a year, not because of the name, but because you need a little million so-called. License or I don't know what. Well, that's the problem. The problem is the red tape of the administration, not the name of the company. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39468	And the last replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39469	Dear fellow we had today at the discussion of the Law on Trade and the Open Market of the European Union and, on the other hand, the freedom of choice for, said Mr. Grbin exactly what and how when we go to European markets that, of course, some of our companies are setting up companies of daughters who would better place their products on the European market so that by name it would be easier to identify them and be easier to place, it is about some marketing part that is also important. It is clear that he who is the founder is attached to the company, that is, to the company and its name, and in some way wants that name to be dear to him and not to be imposed on him. We should know that in Croatia we have 92 thousand registered companies, small, medium and large. And that one of the segments of bureaucracy that is a problem in Croatia at many levels was also the problem of the name of the company that entrepreneurs would go to the commercial court, the month, the two looking for a name that would be adequate and not already existing company. Therefore, we simplify things, and the European Union in itself has received another language, which is Croatia's, with our approach, and we have also opened the possibility in the languages of European countries that Croatia can also establish itself, because I think it is normal and that it is a free market. That it is the freedom of the founders of the company to choose a name, to give him a name that suits him and certainly no name that offends, or a name that is not adequate, will certainly not pass in the Commercial Court and will not be able to register it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39470	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39471	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Coleman. I'm just curious to know what the name Fenestre is going to be. Is the name of the coat of arms a great example for the Greeks? Which language, for example, the Latvians or the Estonians, will do so. Well, why don't you explain it to me, then? So, 27 countries that speak 23 languages. And which one of you will choose from those 23 languages,... call your company to be attractive, attractive, therefore in Croatian language. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So attractive to your buyer. And you have 23 languages in the European Union. As the Greeks will understand or I don't know, I say again to the Latvian or the Latvians, let's say it is, so we can't talk like that. So watch your back, let's keep ours. Or it's actually done on purpose in order to just implement what I said at the beginning of the internationalization of Croatian language, total.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39472	On behalf of the promoter, the final word of the Deputy Minister of Justice, Ms Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39473	Thank you very much, so here finally after this debate I must say and repeat and these are colleagues who have participated in or have continued to participate in their profession confirmed, the fact is that there is a problem with the selection of the company in the registration of the company in the Commercial Court. In the case of registration, certain conditions should be met and one of them should be that the registered or company or one which intends to register is different from the other companies entered in the court register. What has also been seen as a problem is something that we want to prevent by this change, of course, and this is the arbitration and decision-making of court registers to a measure that crosses a reasonable deadline, i.e. to a time-limit that represents a poor feature of starting business in Croatia. We clearly stated in the explanation, the time needed to register the company for the choice of names is a restriction, i.e. an obstacle to the timely launch of business and that is what is the fact and where we stand. We can talk about the wealth of Croatian language or the imagination of potential founders, but their role is not to be imagined, to protect Croatian language and to be professors or Croatian doctors. Their role is the one we don't have, and they have, to take the risk of their own business, of maintaining the market and of being successful at the full budget that we finance. So whatever we can do to make it easier for them, we have a duty to do. This is one step that's not big, but it certainly makes it possible to start a business for whoever wants it. What I wanted most to say and to point out, we did not limit this legal use of language for the company only to the languages of the European Union. In addition to Article 20(1), we also have Article 20(2) which allows the use of all other languages, so it remains in the law and that is, therefore, the possibility to be used in all other languages. What is important, European languages come as well as Croatian in the possibility of therefore without arbitration, without waiting for the decision of the Trade Court. What an entrepreneur in the establishment of a company can choose a language and should not have obstacles to this establishment of a company being much faster than it was before. And of course what is mentioned, on which we work intensively, the web register, so the transparency of all registered companies and the ability to get through the web register itself those who intend to choose their company better, is something that is imperative and what we will soon have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39474	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39475	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy Minister, you mentioned the court register. We here today talk a lot about whether the company will be called one way or another, but I think the biggest problem Croatia has is that many companies are founded to avoid paying commitments both to the state and business partners in previous companies. You know well that for many years it was necessary to amend the Law on the Court Register in which it was simply banned, but unfortunately we also see today that this is happening, that those who have a company or are owners or co-owners of certain companies, and they have a obligation not to establish such a company, and under the cover of fast establishment of a company, unfortunately, there has been a blockade of 30 thousand companies that owe more than 40 billion kuna, among other things, 16 thousand who do not have a single employee. And there's a problem with the High Court of Commerce and that's the problem with the court register and that's the problem in Croatia because if there weren't such problems then they probably wouldn't be politically arguing that the state of mutual obligations is so many-tenths of a billion. And it is a real problem, not whether the company is called in Croatian or English.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39476	And colleague Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39477	Thank you very much. So here's Madam Deputy Minister, you said finally and I want to replicate it, so this bill does not exclude the application of other languages, except for the language of the Member States of the European Union, because there is an item 2 which, as an exception, allows for the use of words and these foreign languages. However, this debate has shown exactly that it would be better if it did not then restrict it to the countries of the European Union. Why, because according to the practice so far, and we often talk about, the unequal practice of commercial courts, so someone from Istria has to go to registration in Slavonski Brod because there can, and in Istria can't, but the same Croatian law applies all the courts and it happens, and if we read the names of registered companies we'll see, it's obvious that they've already been in the languages of the company's name, I'm only talking about the name, not the part of the company that determines the business, so they were in languages that are not Croatian. The language is precisely the application of this paragraph 2 and we welcome this amendment because we say, what the courts in different case-law have now applied on the basis of paragraph 2. We will now put it as a rule in law and therefore this other matter will now happen again, that this exception will be applied differently in the territory of Croatia, from court to court, and it is the languages of countries outside the European Union. But what I'm saying is, if we missed it this time, I didn't get to talk about it, one restriction that would be a smart thing to put on, which is that the company's names can't be such as to insult the public order, morals or anything like that, because I don't know how to solve such a practical situation in registration because they don't have a legal basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39478	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39479	Final draft law amending the Law on Commercial Society, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 359. The debate on the final bill is over. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 106 votes for, 3 against and 3 abstentions have been passed a law amending the law on trade in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39480	We move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inheritance, First Reading, PZ No. 358 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and you received reports at the session. Introductoryly on behalf of the proposer of the Deputy Minister of Justice, Ms Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39481	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. We propose an amendment to the Law of Inheritance regarding the municipalities and cities, how to connect municipalities and cities with inheritance. Let me present a brief practical or procedural situation that may occur in the process in which we address the issue of succession. Therefore, the inheritance represents the transition of the right and obligation of the leaver to the one appointed to him as heir, which is the rule. The heirs can give up their inheritance. If they do so and if no one or person has any heirs on the basis of a call which the court is obliged to publish in the National Journal and with a period of six months, no one or a person has any heirs as soon as the inheritance is opened and potential heirs are also invited within the same time limit. So, if it is established that a person does not have an heir, then it is an asset that we call a belligerent and which is precisely to ensure the transition of rights and obligations to the property of a municipality or cities. What is important to highlight the transfer of property to municipalities and cities does not mean that their municipalities and cities are heirs. They are only located in the same legal position as the law determines, but cannot be considered heirs. The purpose of this is that the property that is narrow, so without an heir, does not remain in the air but that a proper transition to, in the far line of the municipality or city. What we have intervened in the law is the fact that, in the same legal position as other heirs, as regards the transfer of property to the municipality and cities, they are responsible for the debt of the leaver to the amount of the inherited property, but they correspond to all of their assets. In practice, situations occur that those debts that were based on the life of the leaver were unrealized at times were not heirs, and sometimes the heirs gave up to avoid the obligation to repay that debt. The property has passed into the property of a municipality or city. The municipality or city corresponds to the value of the property, but with all its assets. In practice, the accounts of municipalities or cities were charged with the debt of an heir who died without an heir. This situation has caused a lot of practice in the functioning of municipalities and cities, and in addition, it has even been possible to say a certain coverage of risk-based placements made for credit users, etc. where the property that has been deposited is overrated at the time of the loan, and later, of course, its value is lower. We have amended the law to the extent that we have limited the possibility of enforcement, hence the forced collection of claims or debt by the consignor in such a way that the subject matter can only be the thing or the right which is an integral part of the legacy when the commission is carried out on the property of the municipality or the city due to the crossing of the property of the leaver to the municipality or the city. Therefore, we did not limit the possibility that the municipality or city from other assets would pay cash or any amount of debt in the ordinary procedure. But if it hasn't achieved it, and the believers demand it, then they can only accomplish it on those things or objects that were an integral part of the legacy. We can open up a question of whether there's been a different constitutional-legal situation here. But we don't think it's because a municipality or a city like we said isn't an heir. It's a different form of legal ensuing property. On the other hand, what is characteristic and right, the right of heirs can be denied the inheritance. A municipality or city just like that last instance that ensures the transition of rights and obligations cannot be denied. So it's not the same position. And here's the short story, so I believe that through the debate, if there's anything else we need to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39482	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club Vesna Fabiančić Križanić please. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39483	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Inheritance Act shall ensure a balance in the protection of the rights of creditors and units of local self-government, i.e. the municipality and the city, in the event of a sinister property. What is certainly good with the pre-specified establishment of balance is that the bill is in the first reading, so it will be possible to point out, and it is already in the working bodies of the observations and certain proposals. In fact, the existing Law on Inheritance has resolved the legal situation in the event that the desert procedure determines that there is no successor to determine who the heir is, and in the case of no heir, the property that makes the legacy is intended to cross over. The solution proposed by these amendments and additions certainly protects that units of local self-government are not in a more difficult position than they were in before the transfer of property to the municipality or city. This is due to the fact that in practice cases have occurred that the leaver's creditors have achieved their claims on the entire property of the municipality or the city, and most often on the funds of the municipality or the city. Of course, there is no particular need to point out how this questioned the primary task of the municipality and the city, or their functioning. The legal solution by which the leavers' creditors can enforce and demand only on desert items of any property or rights really goes in the direction of protection of units of local self-government especially from the point of view that the municipality or the city cannot deny inheritance as other heirs despite the legally declared equality of one and the other. Since their position still differs, protection is of course necessary. On the other hand, the municipality and the city are left with the possibility of calming their fellow believers and other uninherited assets. Thus, there is a balance in protection between the rights of creditors and units of local self-government and without jeopardising the basic functions of local self-government units. Some proposals have been applied to the working bodies, especially the Committee on Justice, given that this is the first reading, and we believe that the applicant will consider the same. One of the proposals is the possibility of protecting the credentials and heading towards reconciling the possibility of units of local self-government still responding to their property in case the inherited property is estranged prior to the settlement of the credentials. That is certainly a proposal to consider. There was also a proposal to further consider a solution that provided for the possibility of voluntary settlement of the trustee and other uninherited assets. So, these two examples, we believe, will be considered by the Proposer. And finally, we support the proposal to supplement the content of the death certificate and the content of the inheritance solution with a personal identification number. The personal identification number is used in daily work in official records and in data exchange, so it is certainly essential to be in the contents of the death certificate and the content of the inheritance solution. For this reason, the SDP Representatives Club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39484	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39485	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Heritage Act, which is here before us in the first reading. First of all, for reasons we consider him fair to the units of local self-government. Namely, since the Inheritance Act in one part of the local self-government unit appears in the role of heirs when it has been established that there are no heirs but they have one limiting factor I would say, which is that those as other heirs cannot give up their inheritance. So they have to accept the property and movable property of the leaver who died without an heir. When they are already required under the law to accept it, they cannot give up, then the law needs to find a way that solves the situation so that they are not brought into a more unfavourable or poorer position, i.e. the debt of the leaver burdens me to say the general part of the budget of the units of local self-government or all taxpayers. Therefore, it is a good solution that in the case of forced collection by creditors of the leavers of the municipalities, that is, the city to which the property has passed corresponds only to things and rights that are an integral part of the legacy and not in a valuable sense to all the funds of the municipality or the city. Indeed, a question has arisen on the Committee for the Protection of Believers of Leavers, which is then in this case, but we are also wondering what about the protection of creditors in the event that heirs give up their inheritance, and here the Deputy Minister said that there is no problem in this case that constitutional inequality would occur because the municipality, or the city, is not in the right sense an heir. Right now, however, I am asking, and I am interpreting that this is the case, so as far as the protection of the believers is concerned, they have the right to request within 3 months that property, therefore the property and the rights acquired by the inheritance be separated from the other property of the heirs, and in that case the right would also apply to the municipality and the city, thereby protecting the believer from the possibility of the municipality or the city selling that property before the settlement of the creditors. I read from the law that this believer would have the right to both the municipality and the city as well as the other heirs. Therefore, the separation of the assets of the inherited property from the remaining assets of the heir. Here, as regards the subject matter of the municipality, it was also discussed on the Committee and on Article 4 which states that the provision of this law in relation to the implementation of the case against the municipality and that the city will not apply to the executive proceedings initiated before the entry into force of this law. There were comments that it might be necessary to determine that they would not apply to all the procedures of the legacy, i.e. the opening of the inheritance since the opening of the inheritance. I think this provision is in order and that this is the way to stay the processive nature. This law only changes in the part and regulates the issue of enforcement, therefore forced collection and it is therefore appropriate to start enforcement procedures to be completed under the old law, and these new tasks to be completed, started and implemented in accordance with these legal amendments. We also, of course, support and need to change this in all segments of action and economy and state, which is to introduce a personal identification number into the death certificate and the inheritance solution, in order not to be confused, so that there are no major errors in the implementation of the inheritance solution in land books that happened daily especially in smaller places where you have a number of persons with the same name and name of the father, so absolutely in each document with the name and last name should be entered by the OIB. Here are the reasons why we will support this law in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39486	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39487	Thank you very much, Vice President. Reputed deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So like my predecessors colleagues in their speeches, the HDSSB club of course supports these amendments and complements of the Legacy Act because above all we consider that the provision of this law makes one fairer solution when it comes to these heirs who cannot give up that inheritance, and these are municipalities and cities in those cases provided for by the Law of Inheritance when they cannot and when there are no heirs behind the deceased under the Legacy Act. It is important, above all, because it has been shown in practice that many municipalities and cities have taken over the entire inheritance, property and debts behind the deceased carried a sort of burden on their local budgets that could not pay in monetary terms what was left behind the debt, unsettled... accounts and passed the value of that property or legal solution is such that the municipalities and the city, in relation to natural persons who can give up their inheritance, municipalities and cities, cannot give up their inheritance according to our legal decisions. So this is a legal solution primarily just and it is in the spirit of democracy and the law that what the municipalities of cities have to take over does not go beyond the amount of that property that remained behind. It's a much fairer and fairer legal solution, you need to support it. What leaves an open question is that both in the case of legal heirs and in the case of legal heirs and in the case where municipalities and cities have to take over, which is that some of the believers are therefore able to say in a sort of subordinate position they will never collect their claim if these debts behind the deceased exceed the property value of the assets he has died. So this law is also a pro-favorum for municipalities and cities, and it is fair and fair to support it, but in this part, some of the believers will unfortunately never be able to charge. This is, therefore, short changes and additions to the law, everything is clear and should be supported by the law. The introduction of the OIB as well as in accordance with the other legal decisions that we have made so we support this to be used in official records and when discussing the legacy behind the deceased. The HDSSB club supports these short amendments and the supplementation of the Heritage Act and we will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39488	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke labor colleagues Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39489	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. As the predecessors have said, these amendments to the Law on Inheritance as I will say this time a significant number of other laws from this ministry Croatian Labourists support, all in that part of it offer better solutions that improve legal provisions, and especially because it is located in two readings and possibly in that part I think there will be no need to fix this law is more or less all clubs have agreed that these solutions are better. The amendments to the law are very small, they are practically in three articles. They offer a fairer and better solution for the property inherited by cities or municipalities when there are no other heirs. After the deceased, anyone who has the right to inherit can refuse that legacy but the state cannot do so, so municipalities and cities sometimes lack properties that are almost generally in very poor condition or are burdened with significant debts behind the deceased. The property that remains behind the deceased without heirs or property that is in the most common case the heirs gave up due to the debt remains to cities and municipalities without the right to give up cities and municipalities. How many units of local self-government have such assets that they inherited? We don't have the data. Is it a lot or is it small, we don't practically know. I therefore think that the ministry could at least collect data and give us insight into the proposal to amend this law, which would in some way support stronger arguments that the necessity of amending this law is necessary. In addition to this data, it would be interesting to have information about whether the number of such assets belonging to cities and municipalities is growing, if we know that citizens are increasingly in charge and that they are increasingly harder to repay their debts, and they are practically left to the heirs after death, which may also be a reason for the heirs to become more and more and give up their inheritance and practically leave it to municipalities and cities. These amendments to the Law on the Inheritance of Cities and Cities, unlike the heirs of the deceased, will not continue to be able to disavow the inheritance but will be facilitated by the settlement of the leaver debt because they will not settle those obligations from their financial resources. To assume that such an inheritance is mainly about the fact that heirs give up their inheritance because they are familiar with the debts of the leaver, and eventually the property is acquired in some other way during the life of the leaver so that they do not enter the desert debate, and it is practically a burden that passes to the municipality and cities. And it's probably less cases that there really aren't behind the deceased heirs, and they're probably rarer examples in any case. Therefore, it is likely that the problem for most cities and municipalities to make heirs to the leaver if they do and if they know of a debt still exists for the leaver’s life on them over what is worth, which, while giving up other and practical properties such as meadows, oranicas belong to the city or the municipality along with the debts of the leavers. As the creditors of the debtors, as a rule, have been sitting on the accounts of the municipalities or cities, it has recalibrated their liquidity, and now the amendments to the Law on Inheritance are changing which is much more acceptable in any case. For changes to the laws of the faith's demand, only the leftovers, i.e. could now be settled. Inheritance of property. Those inherited assets. In addition to this, it should also look at the debt of citizens who are growing constantly, it is now somewhere around 18.5 billion kuna, for approximately 255,000 blocked citizens' accounts, and that these cases will become increasingly more and more if no economic and social picture changes in the Republic of Croatia. Here it is necessary to stress that behind the deceased under such conditions it is difficult to assume the obligations that remain behind it and clearly that it belongs to municipalities and cities. But also what about whoever in some way achieves this inheritance, and only after a significant number of years, in some cases, there are nine years after the inheritance of the unexpected age of congratulation because of an old obligation that the deceased did not pay, and they didn't even know that this debt remained behind him. Most citizens find that difficult to do, because without such obligations they would be difficult, they provide themselves with the necessary conditions for life. At a time when real estate markets don't work, it's a significant problem because individuals can have real estate but they can't pay them, because they can't even sell them, so they're bound by them in some way and burden them. Therefore, a solution should be sought to facilitate the situation and to the citizens when it comes to the return of citizens' debts stemming from heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39490	And on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39491	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. And my club will certainly support these amendments and additions of the law because these proposed changes and additions are logical and smart. What I also want to praise is that although this is about small changes, the total of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law has five articles with the fact that the 5th refers to the date of entry into force, i.e. the time from the entry into force of the law, so only four. However, the proposer decided on a regular procedure, so it is not an emergency procedure. And I think it's very good and it's also smart. Even though everyone has supported the amendments and the additions to this Law so far, it is important that we can reconsider once again so that we can also consider possible amendments until the final proposal. And I think that's the right way to go so that we can work in Parliament. So leave enough space for MPs to think, suggest and ultimately be constructive. I support, or support the proposal, because above all, it should work especially in the laws that no one can be brought into a more unfavourable position. So, no citizen, but certainly no units of local administration and self-government, or municipalities and cities. As regards this provision, that is to say, of this proposal, that the creditors of those deceased citizens who left their property to municipalities and cities, therefore those who did not have an heir, therefore, can be charged only from what was left. I think it's good and it's just. However, since the reasoning of the law states that this does not prevent the municipality or the city from making peace between the trustee and the other uninherited property, the provision of the law is interpreted and that in the law itself, or amendments and additions, it says that the subject of the commission for the purpose of achieving or ensuring the demand of the trustee to the municipality, or the city to which the loose ends may therefore be only the things and rights that are an integral part of the legacy. And here in reason it is said that it can be reconciled from other means. I think it might be good to do so in the law itself, i.e. the amendments and additions to the law in Article 1 and decided and to determine. Because this philosophy that says the performance can be done, therefore, only on the things and rights that are part of the legacy is I think, in my interpretation, unmistakable. So, I suggest that once again until the second reading consider the possible addition of Article 1 to which the law is amended. In any case, my club will support these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39492	Thank you very much. And the closing word on behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39493	Thank you very much. So here's the need to clarify again, I probably didn't explain it clearly enough in the opening part, so there's no doubt or it's not the opposite of this argument that the municipality or city are not disabled to settle the leaver's believer from another property. The amendment of Article 139, where we have added this paragraph 6, speaks of the performance, therefore of an emergency achievement in the case where the municipality or city will not find reasons or ways or the need to otherwise appease the trustee or any other property. For example, this particular meadow may be responsible for some kind of land circulation, so they will be interested in spending that rounding, and they will pay a man, or make up for it in money, and let's say they agree on it. It is a situation that is a peaceful solution, but if the believer is to go into the executive process of the mandatory achievement of the demand then his performance will be limited to those items or things that are an integral part of the legacy. So there's no difference. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39494	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll make a statement about the bill later. And now we're going to give a break by 3:00, and we're going to start with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cultural Councils. Thank you very much. It's 13,04 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39495	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inheritance, First Reading, P.Z. No. 358. The debate on the draft law is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law on succession, 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 112 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39496	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Cultural Councils. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. By the time they find someone on behalf of the promoter, here I will state my position on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club. What we already said in our first reading, so there are several problems. I'll draw attention to three. Therefore, additional councils are being established in principle, but it is not clear why the Council for International Project Financing is being set up, it is not exactly defined what it will do, by which criteria because international projects for those involved and who know the work of the Ministry of Culture are extremely different, so instead of setting up a separate council, it may have been necessary to provide expert advice from other councils. In addition, the role of the International Cultural Co-operation Council that has been in existence for years is doubled, the obligation for the same councils to form cities that have more than 20,000 inhabitants. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club think it would be better to keep the provision as it has been so far for cities with more than 30,000 inhabitants and I warn that it will additionally burden local budgets. Article 7 highlights the special promotion of the needs in the culture and art of national minorities, which has been so far, but it is not a waste to stand in such a formulation, so we can agree on that. Article 5, or earlier Article 10, instead of going when the law already changes to the full elimination of conflicts of interest, and we consider this extremely controversial, this article is in fact legalized by latent potential conflict of interest because it is almost impossible that, regardless of the exemption from the vote of the council members, by its presence in the Council itself, we will say under the allegations of our projects. It is especially sensitive when the culture budget, and we all know it radically mutilated, when the councils are primarily formed on the basis of similarity, or their members, which was not the case earlier which could be confirmed by Minister Zlatar himself, who is unfortunately not here today. When we reduce the funding of cultural theatres in Osijek, Virovitica and Zadar, when our cultural heritage is neglected worse than at the time of the Homeland War. What does that really mean? So we're talking about a conflict of interest. I will remind only that because of the conflict of interest, the fine has already been paid by Minister Jakovina and we have warned, the SDP mayor of Međimurje paid, and we warned, and they ignored. Then the director of HRT chosen by most does not acknowledge that he is in conflict of interest. The president of the Administrative Council of HINA has been persistently pushing and pushing into the Council for Electronic Media, thereby causing a new conflict of interest, and there is a special case that we have already talked about in Zarez magazine and conflict of interest of the current Minister of Culture, Minister Zlatar. We agree with the fact that the council needs to assess what to finance and what not, but it's equally the fact that the minister was obliged to transfer her share to the law firm or give up that share, and we don't really know if she did it until today. Unlike any other law or majority that came to us from the Ministry of Culture, at least a public debate was held, but no comment or suggestion was made to improve the law I must say is not accepted. Likewise, it was warned on the occasion of a public debate. It's completely unclear why the number of council members is increasing from five to seven so far. Why it is necessary to additionally burden the ministry financially and that such small funds, which are reduced by their budget to a minimum of minimum, must be charged by such a ministry for two other members in each council. We wonder if it wasn't better, if it would be more meaningful if that money were included in certain cultural programs. If I remember correctly, more than 700,000 kunas will be needed for the necessary financial implementation of this law. If you take the proposed culture budget this year, you will see that, for example, for the preparation of projects that should be applied to EU funds, millions of kunas, which means that the Council fee eats us to say almost as much as we invest in the preparation of all projects and we will increase further, i.e. expand the number of members. I will return briefly to the decision to form cultural councils in cities with more than 20,000 inhabitants. I think it would be much more useful if each of these cities could, for example, invest that money in the library, give it to someone who could place a book and we know ourselves in what state publishing and library system is. Equally, I think it would be much more effective if these funds were invested in a culture infrastructure that didn't need to be decided through the councils, so they could invest money in their local, music schools. It would be much more effective than to make them work like this by the cultural councils, or I'll just remind them that the first things are cut, and that's what we always say when we talk about culture, they always cut those funds for cultural needs, that is, the needs in sport, and that's an undeniable fact. Because of this, we have to say from the HDZ Club that we cannot support such a proposal, we cannot agree or support something that will be an apparent conflict of interest, we cannot agree to increase the members of the council from 5 to 7 without any reason and that the additional financial burden on the Ministry of Culture rather than that money has been much more meaningfully invested in projects that are necessarily needed by culture, in theatre programmes, galleries, libraries, for the purchase of library buildings and the like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39498	Thank you, too. We have a replica on this exhibit. Dear Zeljko Reiner, Vice President of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39499	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, the esteemed representative mentioned the problem of introducing the obligation to the representative bodies of cities that have more than 20,000 inhabitants are obliged to adopt an act on the establishment and appointment of members of cultural councils. So, despite the fact that during the debate both on the parent board and in the public debate, it has repeatedly pointed out that it is not good to formalize certain things and force cities now those who have more than 20,000 inhabitants, so far it has been for those more than 30,000 inhabitants, that they have to introduce it, the institute. In this version we see that this is even more acute, instead of being tempered, so that I can bring an act to them at will if they have enough money in the budget, wonderfully. But if they don't, they're not forced to. Unfortunately, this is even more acute here, and therefore an absolute obligation has been created that they must do so. And it seems to me that this is not good because I say again in the debate it has repeatedly highlighted this very position mentioned by the distinguished representative, which I personally agree with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39500	Thank you, too. This replica corresponds to a respected colleague of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice-President, you are right, although it is said that this will only be imposed since the next budget, i.e. since 2014 but we cannot accept this commitment in this financial consolidation of the forces, we know in what state the budgets are in, and we know in what state in the final case of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. We don't know if we'll last at all by the end of the year, let alone how units of local or regional self-government could do it. It's a catastrophic situation that, of course, is being overrun like a pyramid or a left, so from the top of the government and all of this is feeling, of course, our cities and municipalities. So we impose new burdens on them, impose new burdens, burden the craftsmen, burden the businessmen. So, just remember when they dare to finally sum up what our craftsmen or businessmen have come up with the disastrous data we've come up with. Just remember what an insinuating situation they are in, so only when I mentioned the craftsmen to say that, for example, in the first three months of the town of Čakovec, only in the center of the town of Čakovec 16 the crafts closed their doors. So, if we're talking about some new burdens, we need to look at the real situation and not just put it in the law under something that needs to be. And just as you said it would be good to say it could or if it was left for cities over 30,000 inhabitants and not to burden smaller cities in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39502	I now invite my colleague Igor Coleman to present his debate on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39503	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the esteemed deputy minister. HNS is also in the first reading, and of course this reading will support this bill. We think it's a good proposal. One of the reasons why we consider it a good proposal is that this establishment of two new cultural councils. As for the Council for Cultural and Art Amateurism, we are convinced that cultural and artistic amateurism deserves to be institutionally covered, at least in this way, if not in various other ways, and not only in principle supported as so far was the case. As regards the financing of international projects, it is also something that is often brought into contact with this second Council on International Cultural Co-operation. However, these are two completely separate activities, these are two different types of competences, these are two different kinds of jobs, these are two different types of decisions. And in this sense, it seems particularly important to us that these two things are separated precisely because they don't really look like each other, they actually bring one another's activity into chaos and into mutual overlap that then reduces rationality and increases damage. What has been further regulated since the first reading is Article 5, which amends Article 10, so the issue of conflict of interest. In our first reading too, it seemed to be a good solution. Anyway, it's way better than it's ever been before. With this additional polishing of this article, let's say it is indeed a very precise procedure and we absolutely support it. What is also important is that the comments that were heard in the debate in the first reading on the extension of the deadlines for the establishment of cultural councils in cities of more than 20,000 inhabitants were adopted in order to fit into the adoption of the budget and in the commitments already undertaken. But as far as the establishment itself is concerned, I repeat, I said and then, it seems to me that it is very good, however, in the future you should further expand that obligation because from the point of view of rationality, the assumption is that if you have in the city of 20,000 inhabitants, and the city of 20,000 inhabitants is a serious city, if you have a council that deals with culture, then it is likely that if the job is done well in terms of the appointment of that council and the movement of its work that this city will then be able to, either with equal or even with less resources spent in culture, have a more focused, better, more thorough and ultimately more useful cultural programme at the city level. So I don't have much more than that to add, I'm not gonna take up your time. We believe and continue to believe that this is a very good proposal, of course that given these improvements we will be very easy and happy to support, and we hope that the Constitutional Court will not mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39504	And on this replica display rises the respected Željko Reiner vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39505	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleague Coleman actually supported, of course, that there is a separate Council for the financing of international projects as something else or different as he said and with different tasks than the Council for International Cultural Co-operation. Now, I would ask a question, which are cultural workers in our midst artists in the field of art and culture who, with their achievements and knowledge of problems related to the identification and implementation of cultural policy and in particular the financing of international projects, will contribute in particular to the achievement of the objectives for which this council was established? And do we really have so many people from these specific areas of culture and art that we can deploy them on all these desert new cultural councils, and that they are very competent, and that they are not yet in conflict of interest? I have to admit, no one can convince me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39506	The replica matches the esteemed Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39507	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm usually very reluctant to the general criticism of people here in the Republic of Croatia and their competences and their knowledge as well as in this case. So I'm surprised that we in Croatia are unable to find seven people who have something to say and know something about international culture funding. You may have different insights than I do, but I do have a colleague Reiner apparently more trust in our fellow citizens and fellow citizens than you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39508	And another replica, the esteemed Head of the Sun.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39509	Thank you very much. Comrade Coleman, I don't know if I'd say I'm not surprised or that I'm surprised by this finding of yours that by changing Article 10, we're doing something better, I think, and I'm going to say once again that here we are in some way legalizing an eclectic conflict of interest. That's what I'm talking about. So, what you say is that this is much better arranged, you may not have paid attention, but so far the Cultural Council has been arranged in such a way that, for example, the current culture minister could sit in the Cultural Council that it was not seen by party membership and that the Cultural Council was doing its job very well. And what you mentioned, for example, is that a city with 20,000 inhabitants is a serious city and you're alleging that as an argument to something why it should now be handled in accordance with this bill, so I'm asking you about a Poreč that has, for example, 17,000 inhabitants isn't a serious city? Poreč is a serious city and Poreč has a serious cultural heritage has a serious cultural promotion. For example, I have now mentioned Poreč but there are other examples on our coast, cities that are doing exactly what we advocate that tourism is not sun and sea but that cultural tourism will be the one that will extend our tourist season and will primarily be visited by tourists. So not tourists who will only search for the sun and sea but who are increasingly demanding and who know what of the culture in Croatia and where to look. So let's not play with the numbers of serious or non-serious cities, we're talking about arguments, so I'm asking you to think about it that way. And once again I only mention the cities will want you to admit it or not, in this way they will be burdened, their budgets will be burdened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39510	The replica matches my colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll start at the end. Of course Poreč is a serious city, that's why I said, so cities that have 20,000 inhabitants, and even 17,000 inhabitants are serious cities, and that's why they have to have cultural councils. That's why I stressed in my debate that it would be good in the future for that border to be reduced as an obligation, precisely because it is serious cities that cannot then have an unserious system. And one of the elements of the seriously achieved system is the cultural council. Second, conflict of interest. It seems to me that here in this provision which is now in the second reading is further enhanced very precisely and clearly defines how in which situation someone and why they cannot participate in the work of the council. And I don't know a better way to prevent this potential conflict of interest that you're talking about than just a clear, understandable provision that can't be interpreted in more ways than one. As for your surprise or no surprise, I hope you're not surprised if you're surprised then it means I haven't spoken clearly enough to my worldview and the political option I represent, so I hope I haven't surprised you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39512	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, a respected colleague, Boro Grubisic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The draft law, i.e. the Final Bill on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Cultural Councils, refers to the establishment of councils for the fields of music and musical stage art, dramatic and dance art, literary, publishing and bookmaking activities, visual art, cultural art amateurism, innovative artistic and cultural practices and international cultural cooperation and the financing of international projects. This was mentioned before, therefore, by Europe and the European Union, but now it remains financing international projects. When we talk about cultural councils being founded, to be established for the areas of Zagreb County, and cities that have more than 20 thousand inhabitants, it says in Article 4 that cultural councils can establish other cities and municipalities if this is intended. So, she finds that Poreč is a serious city and I think that, then, and if there are 17 thousand residents, then it's out of the question, so, you know, you can also have some kind of Poreč or any other city set up a cultural council. The conflict of interest of a colleague from the HDZ is indeed an interesting thesis in Articles 5 and 10, respectively: a member of the Council cannot participate in the debate and is excluded from the decision of the Council on the issue of an artistic or cultural project in which he or she participates or associated persons related to blood in a straight line to any degree, marriage or non-marriage partner, or relates to a cultural or artistic project proposed by a legal person who is a member of the Council or associated persons having a ownership or founding stake or participate in its management. Now, one question for all of us and I personally wonder, who guarantees that the other members of the cultural council and the other six are left with them, if it's a total of seven, will not go to the hands of their 7th member, or how does it write to the persons associated with him in blood to any degree, marriage or extramarital debt if he has any kind of project. So whether his presence in the cultural council is just a certain guarantee that a project in a culture proposed by his spouse or an out-of-marriage friend, or a friend, does not matter how it says here, will be a guarantee that this project is viewed objectively, objectively, and that it is decided on. So there are those six members of the cultural council who will decide if he is the exception. But since he's a member of the cultural council, I don't want to be a bad prophet, but he'll probably decide without him what he is, to decide that he is, and that he has, or she has, the right to decide on that cultural council. So, no guarantee is a colleague Coleman whether this article that speaks of a conflict of interest is really applied here's how you very firey represent it, that it's an excellent mechanism or tool or whatever you want to protect against conflicts of interest. Since this was also the case with the fact that every cultural council that has seven members on the occasion, which has been established since 1 January 2014, requires additional costs in the budget of cities and counties, it is clear that this cost will therefore be passed on to those who are filling the budget of local self-government cities and counties. And it's quite clear that it's going to be an extra load or, as someone would say, let's say, here's Shuker here, a parafiscal imposition that will add to the budgets and cities and counties. Somewhere we cut or cut the monumental rent, etc., and now we're setting up the cultural councils he won again, lost on the bridge. And it all comes down to the same thing again. And that conclusion about closing the crafts in the town of Čakovec, but not only in Čakovec but also in a number of other cities in the Republic of Croatia stands. And I believe that this cultural council, i.e. the financing of cultural councils, will also additionally burden local self-government units in Croatia. We had objections to this law in that first reading, and now we are in doubt what to do with this final bill of amendments and amendments to the law, although here are the changes that are included in this final bill, so we haven't really discussed ourselves enough in the club what to do with this law. Could it have been possible to reduce the number to 5 and stay to 5, could it have been possible to increase that censorship from 20,000 to 30,000 inhabitants, at least saving part of the towns or settlements that are less than 30,000 inhabitants, the establishment of cultural councils is hard to say. In any case, here are these 750 000 kunas needed to implement this law and programme, projects that are running towards the EU from a million kuna actually cancel out those 750 000 that have to be spent. I think in the end, in connection with this Law on Cultural Councils, we'll be abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39514	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists, the honourable representative Branko Vuksic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39515	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected deputy with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the very beginning of this law an anecdote. In Zagreb there is an actor Dubravko Sidor who has been going to London for years, his father worked on BBC and every year when Mr. Sidor went there to compete with his work since he and you probably remember him well by his excellent voice on Croatian Radio, he has a great voice and he is a very innovative person, he tried to sell several shows to BBC every time. And that's when I asked him once, so do you tell your father to compete, say no, my father doesn't even know I'm competing, and if he did anything to get my work into that contest, I'd be professionally dead. If we were the kind of society that has a BBC or a society, say, some Scandinavian democracy, then I'd believe what it says here. Someone mentioned earlier that our conflict of interest is a stretching concept. It is inconceivable for me that the director of the HRT sits on the Hypo Bank Supervisory Board and, by that very act, does not consider it in conflict of interest, the bank that is operating with HRT and even seems to me to be the director of public television that in itself the bank and the public television are at odds. My colleague Grubisic used to say it was mostly done. There is no need to be a person who is a member of the council to participate in the debate, to decide on this. Five or seven members discuss the programmes and that seventh member gets up when discussed, goes out and the other six members discusses and decides in favour of this seventh member because this sixth, fifth, fourth, third, second and first members will also be in line. You know there's a rule in the jury, let's just say in the theater jury that no one can be in the jury who's any interestingly connected to any play. You can't compete with the show and be in the jury because it's that you automatically conflict interest. And there are more members there, there's no jury member leaving when it comes to his... it's incompatible. So I think it's incompatible here, those people who are in councils can't compete with programs, so either they can't get in those people who are active, they can't be in the councils. There are quite certain in the City of Zagreb, I say it is much harder to achieve it in smaller environments, in Čakovec, in Poreč, or I don't know where there are much fewer people in culture, artists, who are all interested in the funds that the council assigns. Therefore, it is a questionable formulation that we have discussed, although it is now much clearer than it was before, but we know what practice is saying, we now know from the practice of the Committee of Conflict of Interest that many members who are really in conflict of interest do not even recognise the decisions of this commission, arguing, finding in fact all kinds of excuses so that they can continue to act several functions incompatible. So about Article 5, I certainly disagree that members of the council can be those who act actively and who compete for the funds of that council. So that's the first one. Secondly, the councils are being set up, before the 30 000 people were bordered, now the limit is 20,000 inhabitants. I would like it to be 5,000 or 10,000 inhabitants, only Arsen Dedic has one song to say and who has to pay for it. The thing is, investment in culture, education, science is not consumption, it's investment. It's an investment in a better future, certainly. But at this point, can we respect the letter of this law, like many laws, tomorrow we'll probably talk about laws that also became dead letters on the paper we talked about, in the spring we were talking about protecting information. We talked about many laws when they came here that it wouldn't happen because it's impossible in practice to achieve them. So, all that further said by the two new councils that have been set up, which is the financing of international projects, and it seems to me that the Cultural and Artistic Amateurism Council is welcome to welcome the Council of Ministers and one proposal which, in all these councils, all those who deal with culture and art should do as is often done in democratic countries without compensation, without money. Then we might have a chance to get through what we wrote in law. Once again, I appeal for Article 5 to be changed and so that those members I repeat, those artists, cultural workers who compete for money cannot be members of the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39516	Thank you, too. We're moving on to the individual debate of colleague Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39517	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Assistant. In fact, I would first express my regret that almost nothing from the public debate is appreciated in this proposal which I do not think is good or good practice. Of course, however, the question arises at all why this bill. It explains that it is simply said that because we are entering the EU, there will now be new sources of funds, and then it is good to introduce ourselves in Article 1 of the Funding Council, for the financing of international projects, etc. However, frankly, I do not think that this draft actually brings any significant qualitative changes to the existing law, and of course not into the system. In fact, I believe that if the existing law were to be implemented really strictly as it is imagined that significant changes could actually be made to better, especially if the evaluation of all programmes was carried out, if written evaluation was introduced, if better communication was promoted between the Ministry of Culture, Councils and users, or entities performing activities in the culture of art, if articles that foresee conflict of interest had already been respected would have been significantly better. But let me refer to a few articles that have been discussed again during the public debate period, which my predecessors have actually mentioned. I will re-absorb the problem in my opinion of the unnecessary Council for the financing of international projects when there is a Council for International, Cultural Cooperation and again it seems to me that the problem of how many such people with such great experience we have. It's not a question of trust in these people and whether we should have and can have, trust in potential members or not. It's just a question of reality if they really exist. Why one new council should be invented that actually seems to be doing the work of a kind of consulting. So if you want to provide specific professional assistance to cultural entities to compete for funding from international funds, then this can be done by means of another form, primarily by training those entities to meet the conditions set out in competition for international funds, and not by creating a new council in which, if so, it would be only right if its members were completely excluded from competition for some means that would probably not happen. Therefore, it is one of the problems that arises. I am not happy with the removal of Article 2, paragraph 2, in the fourth article, because it will not settle the issue of conflict of interest only by what is written in Article 5. I do not see at all why this article would be deleted. It is not true that the issue of conflict of interest will be fully resolved in Article 5 precisely for all the reasons that have been said in the debate so far. However, it seems that this will in some way legalize the conflict of interest and I don't think that's good. Paragraph 2 of the existing law of Article 4(2) could therefore be strictly respected, insisting on this, rather than knowingly infringing as was the case in the past. And I think that would protect the possible conflict of interest enough. But when I talk about a conflict of interest, it seems to me that he will definitely report on the provision of Article 10, or Article 4 on the introduction of a lower census now, so that they must have cultural councils, cities above 20,000 inhabitants. In such cities, there is indeed not enough experts to be members of the council without at the same time competing for funds. This shows a practice that actually says that even cities with 30,000 inhabitants often cannot find enough quality staff for councils, and that they will not compete for these funds at the same time. I am afraid that what was to be done before has not been done at all, and then there is a thorough evaluation of the work of the council in smaller areas to see whether or not this system is working, and then based on this analysis to fix the situation, implement improvements or possibly make some changes in the law. We know that today, we rarely have cultural councils, so in cities above 30,000 inhabitants, that this is a series of applicable laws, in which clearly competent personnel cannot be found, so they are in those councils as members instead of cultural employees of artists who have nothing to do with culture and art. We know examples of some aunts in kindergartens, etc., etc. Therefore, if we want to have professionals, especially in small areas, it is indeed a big problem to find them without at the same time being in conflict of interest because they will compete for certain means. Finally, I think it is important to point out that, in fact, as my predecessors have said, the provision of cities above 20,000 inhabitants will not only cause the conflicts of interest described but rather essentially take away money for culture, for cultural programmes in these smaller environments because they will have to form cultural councils instead of having very modest funds that they have invested in certain cultural programmes. Therefore, it seems to me that these solutions are not actually happy, so of course it is not a happy solution when instead of 5 allow 5 or 7 members because of course in our practice it will always end up at 7. More money will be spent on cultural councils rather than really money, very modest money is becoming less and less money invested in culture and art really invested in programmes and thus achieves the main goal that is probably in everyone's interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39518	Thank you. Does the Deputy Minister want to speak to the Parliament in a final fashion? Here you go. Deputy Minister, Mr Berislav Shipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39519	Mr. Vice President, thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament a few sentences on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Cultural Councils. Something about councils being founded for some new areas. As we have established, cultural artistic amateurism is funded this year with 3 million 740 thousand kuna for 215 music amateurism programs and 910 thousand kuna for theatre amateurism. It is a huge amount of money and a huge number of programmes and projects for a single area where there has been no expert council of this kind. We believe that it is necessary to maintain this quality level of these programmes and the concerns that the Ministry of Culture and boredom has led, noting, and we hold that, in particular, the Council for Cultural and Artistic Amateurism is having through this financial so to say, taking my justification. Secondly, as regards the Council for International Cultural Co-operation, there is a significant difference between the two councils before European integration or the Council for the financing of international projects. The concept of Europe and the EU or European integration is deleted, as our country has become an equal and full member of the EU since 1.07. Therefore, we will only have future international cultural co-operation, not co-operation with the EU. So there's no need to say it anymore. Secondly, international cultural co-operation is available at this time with funds of around 12 million kuna allocated to programmes reported by institutions, public institutions and individuals as well as independent art organisations, associations or individuals who have specific projects abroad. One such project is, for example, something that really the Croatian state made a big step, and that was the Croatie la voici Festival in France. However, international projects and the Council for the financing of international projects are a completely different council and will not have in them practically those people sitting in the Council for International Cultural Cooperation. Why? It has already been seen from these first projects of international funding towards European funds or international funds that it must not be just European funds, that it is mainly projects that are related to or for the construction of a new institution founded in one of our places, cities or local environments of course of cultural content or related to the restoration of cultural heritage again in some environment so that, in both segments, funding such projects to those environments and these facilities gives an entirely new value that is popularly added to the edit value and which, of course, gives one new incentive to those environments at all in their social and economic development. I will mention the programmes that seemed to me to be the 10th proposed by the Ministry of Culture and other ministries of assistance, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Tourism, among other things. Grožnjan or Zavrje in Istria also cultured in Pula or in Rijeka large project. So it's about projects where something is being built, where something is being financed, where something is being renewed to put it into a new function. It is very important to mention that holders of such projects cannot be ministries, they are holders of local environments. They determine their ideas about how the project will go and in which direction it will go. The ministries are helping, and so is the amount of a million kuna that is designed to help with the project documentation of various architectural sites is foreseen for projects like this. So members of such a council for the financing of international projects will not actually be artists, let's put it that way. It will be enough to say so to the council composed so far of perhaps people who have met once a year when it would be a professional award in the area of urbanism or in the area of architecture, meaning someone who is connected, that with archaeology, someone who is related to heritage architecture, with tradition, perhaps someone in the area of folklore or ethnology. So in any case, experts who can evaluate what some local environment wants to finance by means of international funds. As for cultural councils which would now be established in cities with 20,000 inhabitants, I note that Article 6 paragraph 1 is changing and will now say that cultural councils are established for the territory of the City of Zagreb and a city that has more than 20 thousand inhabitants, and can be founded by other municipalities and cities if they assess this purpose. So it is really possible that Poreč as a serious city, of course, we also know cultural heritage, but also an excellent music festival can form such a council if it keeps it meaningful. One more thing, cities and those communities will determine by their statute the number of council members. It doesn't have to be 5 doesn't have to be 7, it could be 3. Then they will determine the part-time work, determine the way they choose, and the mayor will make a decision on the compensation that exists but can be 100 kuna. So it seems a little bizarre to me that someone mentions parafiscal in this context when it is known that the monumental rent when it comes to the Ministry of Culture means loss can really be said from 25 million kuna a year, the Ministry of Heritage. Namely, that so-called. The parafiscal inducement cannot be used for anything else and neither in local environments nor in the Ministry of Culture, but only explicitly so. If 100 kuna compensation per member of the Cultural Council in a small town is parafiscal, then I don't think we have the same bill or at least not well. This is also what I think may be mentioned somewhere in Čakovec, but I hope that not in the sense that he gets a commitment to the founding of the cultural council, these are the cities of Križevci, Virovitica, Zaprešić, Petrinja, Kutina, Požega and Sinj at this point that we know they are in this number. As regards the article mentioned here and in connection with the conflict of interest, which is Article 10. Who is now changing and is a member of the council cannot participate in the debate and is excluded from the council's decision on the issue of an artistic or cultural project involving him or his related person, a blood relative... to any degree, marriage and extramarital friend, I will mention that so far such a person has been able to participate in the debate but has been excluded from the decision-making process. I believe that we have sharpened the situation by not even having the person concerned discusses such a single project, let alone the decision-making process. As for the article, Mr. Academyman Reiner, I think he mentioned the 2nd item in the article so far which mentions the inability to participate in this, it could even agree that in one segment Croatia is a small environment when it comes to the choice of people who can sit in cultural councils. Personally, I have never been to any cultural council because I would constantly be in conflict of interest, running certain festivals or groups that, of course, have run for office. However, I also hold that a certain type of trust must exist. In this council as well as in some other councils, my friends, colleagues with whom I worked extremely closely on everything, and even on such projects, so without even personal trust in the domain of culture and art, I think the law or some hard, sharp, stricter approach will not make much of it. I believe that at this point, this is the best solution or a proposal for a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39520	I thank the Deputy Minister. At this final presentation, we have a reported replica of our colleague, Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Shipush, he's not a Chakotay, he's a Chakotay. I was talking about the town of Chakovec, so it's two different cities, so that's all I want to warn you about. Equally, it seems to me that you are a little clumsy in all of this whether urbanists will eventually sit in this council, not sitting, so obviously you haven't defined who these people will be, so I'm sorry that we didn't get an answer to that, but a single awkwardness in explaining. It's not about whether anyone can, must, set up a cultural council. You have data at the Ministry of Culture about cities that have done it so far, and then you know what the effectiveness of certain words was or was not. You mentioned the city of Poreč again, so I singled out the city of Poreč as an example that has no cultural council and that promotes culture, works on cultural programs. My first thought was Poreč, so in that context, I mentioned the city. When you touch the problems of the monumental rent, or the reduction of the charge and the explicits, you say that this money cannot be used for other purposes, I will again give you the example of the town of Čakovec, for which the State's review for two years in a row found that the funds of the monumental rentals were not used for purpose, that the mayor of SDP was not purposefully spending the funds, so it is not allowed but it seems. So I'm also warning you of that fact. And I just have to warn that during the public debate, there have been objections from cultural workers, as regards the establishment of a new council, that there is no need for a new council to deal with international projects as consultants, because it is simply not necessary, but should be educated cultural workers who understand themselves in these projects and not as we have heard that it may be urbanists or you don't really know who these people will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39522	Thank you. You want to answer? No, I don't. Here's a reply to the deputy minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39523	Yeah, well, I didn't say it couldn't happen, I just said it was this so-called. the parafiscal load is indeed one of those sources of funds for local environments, as well as for the Ministry of Culture which is intended solely for the purpose of protection, in the protection of cultural monuments and in their conservation, the restoration that can happen, of course, but I wouldn't go into it now. Secondly, as far as Poreč is concerned, all I've stated is that Poreč as one cultural city can have a cultural council if he wants it, if the middle local determines it's not necessary. However, it does not mean that it may not improve that whole segment of culture. Of course, there are data where cities that have councils or who have no councils work badly with culture but there are many more examples where we have cultural councils that work very well in cities. And I repeat once again, the councils mentioned at the beginning in the preamble are practically changing and the additions refer of course to that number of councils and their titles, to the councils that are... at the Ministry of Culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which doesn't mean the local environments have to have those same councils. So I think there are some things we can agree on and we don't have to, but it seems to me that at this point these are the best possible suggestions for solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39524	I thank you and therefore the debate on the text of the Law is concluded and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39525	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Cultural Councils, second reading, P.Z. No. 210. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final proposal. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 77 votes, 34 votes against and 1 abstention has been passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Cultural Councils in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39526	Today we'll discuss another point. It will be this: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State wombs, second reading, P.Z. No. 165; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Management Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39527	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, for the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Queens Act. The first reading was at the end of last year and the basis of the debate which was held in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of what we were planning to do in the meantime, you have the final draft of the law. The existing State Queens Act was passed in 1993 and has started to apply since January 1994. The provisions of the law stipulate that state queens are in the record of the personal status of citizens entering the facts of birth, marriage and death and other information on those facts laid down by law. The time of adoption of the Law on State wombs and in the first year of application of the citizens' personal status records were carried out manually and documents were issued by a typewriter. In the Republic of Croatia in the 1990s, the information of the state administration begins and so does the home offices. The process of informing citizens' personal affairs has been gradually developed from using IT as a typewriter to setting up a single application led by a state-run queen to which data from the state-owned queens are entered and which enables the information processing of the data entered. In the last 10 years, it has been accessed by intensive input of data and governmental queens into the information base and has been continuously carried out daily in the home offices. For example, on 14 January 93.74% of enrolment has already been entered into information bases. It should be noted that daily data are entered into the information databases entered into the national nuts, which continuously increases the number of entries. I'd like to say here that between the two readings and allowing us to connect in the entire country of application, that now the birth certificate can be obtained no matter where you were born in all the home offices. The use of information technology has made it easier and faster for parents to issue documents, which have also affected the efficiency of work compared to the achievement of citizens' rights. The main issues proposed are therefore the management of state queens in electronic form, except for the queen married, which was also the proposal of some MPs, which will continue to be kept in the prescribed form, while such provisions of the Family Law are in force. Also, the regulation of ways of changing gender data in the basic entry of the queens born will also show about the amendment that has been submitted in this regard. Prescribing the presentation of medical documentation on birth and other evidence of motherhood for the application of the birth of a child outside a medical institution, shortening the time limit for the determination of the child’s personal name to 30 days from the day of birth. The issue of only two documents from the Matica born and that extract from the Matica born containing all the data entered in the Matica birth and birth certificate in which the last valid data will be entered. For persons who have changed sex and their personal name on documents, changes will not be visible. We also envisioned the handover of queens married in diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia abroad, from which no documents are issued in diplomatic missions and consular offices, the competent Office of the City of Zagreb, in order to enable citizens to issue documents and to coordinate the titles of legal institutes and bodies of the state administration. As regards the difference between the first reading and the first reading, therefore, a number of proposals were accepted by parliamentary representatives who were mentioned here and for those who were not accepted, an explanation was written as to why they were not accepted. In addition, given the break that was in the work of the Croatian Parliament, the Government will propose an amendment to enter into force on 1 July, not 1 June, in order to comply with that provision on entry into force for 8 days or at least 8 days from the date of adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39528	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First of all, I'd like to invite my esteemed colleague, Miral Holly, to present the SDP Club's views.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39529	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the government. At the very beginning of the presentation on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Queens Act, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will support the adoption of this law. We point out that it is an important law that realises a very important promise from Plan 21 that the Kukuriku coalition won the elections a year and a half ago, a promise that will be translated into this law to raise the level of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, reduce discrimination between minorities and vulnerable groups, and thus greatly facilitate the lives of persons with gender dysfunction, and unfortunately, such persons in Croatia still live in hell in 2013 today. We also consider the way this law was written because representatives and representatives of NGOs dealing with the rights of LGBTQ persons, as well as RODAs and other associations, actively participated in its creation. After the first reading of the bill, this legislative proposal was improved and improved because the Ministry of Administration was extremely open to dialogue and cooperation, which is a huge positive change compared to the two previous governments. The ministry of the administration has shown in the right sense that public debate on a legal document must not only be formal but it may be a real democratic debate with all interested public. To remind you, this final bill changes the current law in the following provisions. It is prescribed to conduct state queens exclusively in electronic form, except for the Mother of Weddings, until the provisions of the Family Law have been amended. A way of changing gender data in the basic entry of the Mother of Birth is prescribed, the presentation of a medical document on the birth or other proof of motherhood for the birth of a child outside a health institution shall be shortened for the determination of the child’s personal name from 2 months from the date of birth of the child to 30 days from the date of birth of the child. Only two birth certificates shall be issued from the Mother of Birth and that extract from the Mother of Birth containing all the data entered in the Matica of Birth and the Birth List in which the last valid data written in the Matrix are to be entered at the time of issue of the document. Then what is extremely important to us, persons who have changed sex and their personal name on documents will not be visible to change, the handover of the Mother of Weddings to diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia abroad, which do not issue documents in diplomatic missions and consular offices to the competent office of the City of Zagreb to enable citizens to issue documents. And lastly, the titles of the legal institutes and the names of the authorities of the state administration are aligned. In the SDP club, we welcome the full information of the national queens that finally enters Croatia in these administrative affairs in the third millennium. Many will say that this is not enough in 2013 and that there is still plenty of room for progress and improvement, so in this context, we are often mentioned as a positive example by neighbouring Slovenia, which by law banned the authorities of the state administration from citizens and citizens of Slovenia from seeking documents already owned by the state authorities. Because it is true, it is quite absurd for Croatian citizens and citizens to seek the delivery of documents such as the housekeeper, copies from the Book of Birth and similar not over 6 months old, as if such documents were not owned by the body of the state administration and are now almost fully in 100% information form. By fully informing all databases available to public authorities, we call on the government to seriously consider the implementation of a similar solution in Croatia, as this would greatly relieve Croatia's citizens from excessive administration. The bodies of public authorities would become more efficient, better quality and real service to citizens, all leading to significant savings in the administration. We therefore consider this step one of the steps in the area of reform of the state administration. When we were in opposition in the parliamentary procedure in the last term, we released the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State wombs to which we wanted to raise the level of human rights, gender-disphoric persons, i.e. transgender and transsexual persons, in part to facilitate the procedure for changing sex data in the basic entry of the Mother born and to mention changes in gender data and changes in the names of the Mother born on documents. The previous ruling majority unfortunately did not support such a civilizational leap and thus made life easier for the natives. In the SDP club, we are proud that the coalition government led by the SDP by this law has fulfilled this promise and that the adoption of this law will at least partially facilitate the life of the natives. Although this law brings positive change, in the SDP club we remind the Government of the Republic of Croatia and not only the Ministry of Administration which, by this law, and hopefully by further improving it, the adoption of two amendment groups of representatives from the SDP club has done their part of the work on improving the human rights of this extremely vulnerable minority group, but also the Ministry of Health, that there are still a lot of work ahead in terms of strengthening the rights of native disphoric persons. This applies primarily to the adoption of regulations governing the systematic care of persons of child dysphoric nature, from psychological and psychiatric assistance, counselling and treatment by endocrinologists and surgeons, which would place Croatia in a circle of democratic and civilization-developed countries in which such persons are not left alone in their suffering. The first necessary temporary measure is the correction of the applicable Regulation, and the second step is to adopt a special regulation that would regulate the care of persons of child comfort. In the SDP club, we welcome other changes and additions that are still in force in line with real life and the fact that procedures seem simpler and more practical. At the very end of the presentation on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to commend the work of the Minister of Administration Arsen Bauk, who, by this law, proved the openness, seriousness and quality seen in other proposals of the law that came from this ministry to the Assembly, which significantly raised the quality of human rights in Croatia. This primarily refers to a very good Law on the right to access information, to amend and supplement the Law on Personal Name and now to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Queens Act. All these laws systematically realised pre-election promises to the Kukuriku coalition and what the SDP had said and proposed in the previous term. We hope that the Ministry of Administration will maintain this pace of credibility and quality and that soon we will have the opportunity to discuss the Law on registered partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39530	Thank you. On this exhibit we have a prominent replica of Mrs. Gurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Holly, here I have listened carefully to your debate and you have said several times that you are too pleased at the SDP club and that you are too pleased with both the Minister and the Government in which you have fought for here people who advocate same-sex communities or otherwise are marked. Well, at the HDZ Club, I'm personally not happy with it at all, but I'm not happy because no one from the SDP club, but the government itself is after a series of attacks that happen and violate human rights, really breaking fellow Holly, because we all have the right to say that we believe that marriage between a man and a woman is marriage and can also sign and advocate it to change the Constitution, that's our human right. So we can't be completely satisfied if we've given one population this way the opportunity to really identify each other through these queens, and on the other hand we're abolishing the human rights of others. He's not responding at all, none of the associations are really that sad and today Vice President Reiner was talking about it. I personally believe and would be very pleased that the SDP club and that this government is finally saying it's not right. Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39532	The answer to the replica of the esteemed Mrel Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39533	Dear colleagues of the twilight, I just want to draw your attention to the fact that this is about the rights of birth-disphoric persons and that they are not homosexual persons. It's about a whole other theme. In addition, I was sorry that today I did not have the opportunity to replicate your vice president or party colleague who sought a break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club because of the violence against the people who collect these signatures for the referendum. In fact, I agree with you that any violence is absolutely inadmissible and should be condemned, but I would think that your objection and request for a break is significant so that I say more credible that you have reacted in countless cases when extremely large violence has been exposed to homosexuals and lesbians, and this happens unfortunately every day. Well, no one's ever responded to that. In addition, one society is as civilizedly democratically advanced as it protects the most vulnerable members in its society. And I don't think people who have the ability to consume marriage fall into such vulnerable groups. We absolutely condemn violence against anyone, but we urge you to be much more credible in your demands and to react loudly to violence against homosexuals and lesbians, homosexuals and lesbians, then your request will be fully credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39534	We continue the debate on behalf of the clubs, so on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Davorin Mlakar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39535	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We heard an exhaustive and inspired report by the SDP Club on the quality of the law that lies before us today in the second reading. Unfortunately, regardless of previous grades, believe that those SDP ratings did not affect our opinion of this law, but we cannot join the grades in the superlatives of the text of this law. I'll try to explain why. The law has suffered some changes or improvements since the first reading, which even though we are not recognised in any way shows that our arguments can be accepted here and there when the Proposer realizes that the Family Law is signing in the book of weddings something which is a legal obligation and a document that you prove marital status, and now the promoters have decided that yet one of the queens in this case stays as a book not only in electronic but also in written form as it has been so far. And to welcome it is certainly the idea and action of the ministry to informically improve the entire area of citizens' status rights and so on, but there are problems why we continue to object to the solution that queens are being led exclusively in electronic form. In this case here is between the two readings you accepted that you could not only conduct the book of weddings in electronic form the same objection applies especially to the book of borns but I don't think you had it in mind when you proposed this text of the law. And to go as the president of our House usually says because of the public's interest who probably won't have a chance to hear our objections. I will try anyway in a simple way to convince what the norms of this law are doing now. And I must say that the interests of the HDZ Club are broader than the rights of transgender persons, that we are interested in the law in its entirety. And because of certain rights that recognise certain groups, it necessarily leads to problems or threatens the rights of some other groups. In this case, we are talking about the legal security of citizens. I'll try to explain it on an example. On the basis of birth queens, two documents are issued, one is called a certificate and the other is called a birth certificate excerpt. According to this proposal, which is now before us and one and another document from the birth books will contain only the latest information on the person who requested the publication of this document. This is in a way that we want to understand the protection of persons who have, for example, changed sex so that the certificates used in legal traffic do not show that fact. And it's completely legitimate and it's an idea that needs to be welcomed. And that right can be achieved by issuing a certificate from a birth certificate. But at the same time as he suggested this law if you would treat sex change as a fundamental entry into the womb of the born it would mean that a person who changed sex at 35 years after sex change will be enrolled in a book born as if a person was born in that second sex. And that's what we've been complaining about, and that's why we're saying that it creates legal uncertainty that I'm not implying here that this person is going to conclude two or more marriages, that in legal traffic, they're going to be used to documents that are going to become unreal and that you're not going to be able to determine the identity of the person who made that fact of sex change. What was a challenge and what we think that when you are already going after this arrangement can be accepted is that you should not seek other than these medical documents that are listed here that a person who wants to change the sex so that there is no medical change in his sex, that is enough information, that is, this document that you have listed certain medical documentation but we believe that this right should then be limited. Otherwise, I can happen to caricate, regardless of the subject very seriously, that someone comes every 3 or 6 months with a request to change his basic entry in the book of borns. What the minister has already said at the outset is that this date of entry into force was probably previously arranged, I think it is a very simple solution for you to enter into the entry into force of the law for 8 days or 8 days from the day of publication. And now another very important thing that shows that the manuscript of this law is actually only one of our general government services and unfortunately one that can't be boasted that it was the highest quality regardless of some of the grades we've heard. And this is the fact that what they were and what they are according to all applicable international conventions and today consular affairs, which is the conclusion of marriage, these provisions of the law as stated here you defacto end the possibility of a consular marriage in consular offices of the Republic of Croatia abroad. And many of the wedding books that were in those offices of this law you have determined that they have to surrender to the property and to be stored in the General Administration Office of the City of Zagreb. I have to admit that this is an unconventional solution because if consular affairs were transactions in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' portfolio, then I guess it's logical that those books that prove that certain consular transactions were being done should also be stored at the Foreign Ministry. Moreover, when it is already going for electronic connection and the ability to deliver documents by electronic means to trust it, and especially because of the fact that we are going from 1. 7. be a member of the European Union that it is necessary to strengthen the possibility or service that works in our consulates and deals with consular marriages and not the opposite of international contracts or general practice, to eliminate at all the possibility that people and not only Croatian citizens can conclude consular marriage in our diplomatic and consular representations. This is what we think is the lack of this law that could certainly be arranged and that we should take care of it. And if I don't know why you think you're talking somewhere in the explanation that there's not enough number of trained officials, then, and the excerpts from the marriage queens could certainly be delivered by electronic means, from headquarters, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the intended addresses abroad. In any case, one who should own a book of married persons, so those who have concluded a consular marriage should be in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and not in the city of Zagreb, because he should by no means guarantee that this job, that he is at all qualified for the job, or that this job will work in the right way or the best way. These are remarks, we will not talk about the fulfillment of your pre-election promises and plans but we are warning about, regardless of what initially acts as a technical improvement or modernization of business, this law opens up some doubts, opens up the possibility of legal uncertainty that will happen because of what I was saying at the beginning, without any intention of preventing the realisation of human rights and those persons, especially what my colleague Holly was saying to the most vulnerable groups in society, because both of their numbers and their problems require special protection, but it must limit their right to exercise their right in an adequate way. If this is a matter of prescribed medical documentation that you have dealt with with by regulation, then at least it should be limited to the use of that right only once possible during the life of each of these persons. These are the reasons why we will not support this law, or suggest to the Ministry as it has decided to keep the books of the married except in electronic form of water and in the books so far, the same solution for the Mothers born and the Mothers of the Dead. I'm not going to repeat the question that you said that you teach those over 100 years old to the state archives, and we don't know what's going on with those who are up to 100 years old. And we warn you again, the queens contain a much larger number of entries than possible at all and what has been possible so far to process and transfer them to electronic form and therefore suggest that you at least leave this law 10 years old so that these books can be properly translated into electronic form and then prescribe that this is no longer done. Otherwise, problems will occur both in inheritance and in family law because what has been transferred to the queens is still from church books and what the parents have conducted is not all as you have written transmitted into electronic form, nor is it possible to pair some parent books and books of the married. That's what those who do this work should know. This is why we have large reserves under this law, and regardless of the fact that one of our critics has accepted the proposal, we suggest that you also accept these proposals that I have made here before this law is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39536	Thank you. We have a signed replica of the respected MP Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39537	I wanted to respond to a statement or claim by a respected colleague who said that the Mother of Born must be seen in the basic enrolment means that a person was born for example. in a male or female sex and that sex was later changed and it will be seen further. However, there is no reason to see in later terms the excerpts that at a certain point in her life a person has changed his name for what reason, it must not be because of a change in sex but may also be because of a national reason, I do not enter at all why someone wanted to change the name or to see that in some part of his life he became both physically or not physically female, i.e. to live in a woman’s identity and was born in a male sex. So why, I don't see why it would be necessary to see it in some sort of birth certificate extract. I don't think it has any need at all, and that information will be kept by the public authorities, or by the parents. So there is no possibility of abuse, or manipulation. Besides, I don't like it when it comes to the assumption that something shouldn't be done because there's some kind of miniature possibility that someone will try to abuse it. I don't agree with you that this will be misused because I think we have very responsible doctors and general practices, so those who initially take care of these people and later psychologists and psychiatrists who are quite certain in some multi-year cycle are able to recognize their own dysphoria.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39538	The line matches the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39539	Dear colleague Holly, the fact that you disagree with me is quite clear to me. I told you, and now maybe I'll make it more clear, and I don't agree with you either. Because if we're doing a system and we're doing laws that can protect everything, then I stand for that kind of solution. I'm not against what you're talking about, that vulnerable groups should have special protection, but that protection can't go to the expense of the rights of everyone else. What you're saying or not clear, you need to read the law. So read in the law that says to you how colleagues have written it, for those for whom gender change is recorded in the national queens, no data on gender change and change of personal name, or for those who changed their personal name before gender change is shown no information about a change in their personal name. The excerpt is what so far contained a complete print from the nuts. In the certificates, and that's why I stood up for that solution, you can't see it. Anyone who has changed their name and does not want to be seen for any exercise of the right to legal traffic will take out a certificate, will not remove an excerpt from the Mother of Birth and the whole problem is solved. But we can't let someone who lived as a man for 30 years as a man at age 31 change sex and the queen says he's lived as a woman since birth. This is what is not well regulated by this law and why we claim to need to change. That's what you could perhaps in consulting with the ministry you'd further explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39540	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39541	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Exactly what Mr. Mlakar said earlier, and I will repeat that it would be much clearer because the HDSSB club and not only that, I will say something else later, is why the HDSSB club can hardly support this legislative proposal. Therefore, Article 27 states "for persons who are registered in the state wombs, gender change in excerpts are not shown data on gender change and changes in their personal name, or those who changed their personal name before sex change do not show any information about a change in their personal name. The statements and receipts from the national queens issued by the parent who received the request from the party independently of the place of entry in the national queens." If it's too simple and too much to think about if someone changes sex, then I think there's no reason why it doesn't say that he's changed sex and he's got that kind of excerpt, unless, really, according to his colleague Holly, she's born-of-the-mill dysphoric, so she's using the term, birth-of-disphoric, or they have such problems in common, here's what she mentioned psychological and psychiatric treatment, so then this hiding would say sex change is something that should actually be legal. That's how it turns out. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Queens Act plays a very large role in inheriting and family law in any case. The books we'll get in information form in any case is a good thing as I don't know maybe it would be too ambitious to compare with ARCOD, etc. but it's very important that we have in this information form, but in any case we should keep the written form of the birth book. The married books, as already stated here in this legislative proposal, remain in writing, and the books of the dead are important and because we have problems, here is only one example, when due to the lack of awareness in the books of the dead, and since they are very often about persons with citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and their residence in the Republic of Croatia, and their residence in another country, do not provide regular data on death. So that's why we have a regular pension fund or we have a pension fund to pay off non-retirement pensions of 100 million kuna per year or over 100 million kuna per year. Now, it's good if someone lives here, so there's a book of the dead, and then they die and they sign in. But what if someone lives in Nis or I don't know in Novi Sad and has a residence in Croatia here in Negoslavci, etc.? How, then, will we keep the book of the dead for such, and according to the laws of residence and residence, have we given the full legal right to be held as Croatian citizens? And are we going to keep counting the losses in the Pension Fund as long as we count in hundreds of millions of kunas every year? and every year we receive here a report from the Pension Insurance Fund and every year no pensions paid for over 100 million kuna. Here, Mr. Minister, I don't know how we're going to regulate it, so the book of the dead in connection with this problem we have. Therefore, the law as a law was adopted in part in relation to the first reading of the remarks of some MPs, above all, by fellow Members of the Mlakar, but in view of this first finding that I made in commenting on this law, the HDSSB Club will not agree to such a legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39542	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the club debate list. And we're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. A respected colleague named Peja Grbin has signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39543	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. Well, first of all, I think it is necessary to point out that this is a good law, a good law, that this law is a step forward and that it should be adopted. I won't look back too much, my colleague Holly already said a lot about it on behalf of our club, I just have to point out that at the transition to the 21st century of the electronic book, as is the case with the land books we talked a lot about on the transition to electronic books are not necessary but a normal step forward. As the Motherbook as it is based as such represents a huge step for civilization, moving on to an electronic book is something necessary, something normal and something we don't need to be afraid of. I really don't see any fear in that transition. I also thank my colleague, Mlakar, for warning, in his first reading, of a particular problem relating to the provisions of the Family Law, and I hope that we will very soon remove it when we discuss and adopt new or amendments to the existing Family Code. I also welcome the provisions of this bill that have been amended in relation to first reading. For example, changes in terms relating to a personal name, to the proposal of distinguished colleague Lovrin, what we have said on the proposal of a colleague of the Mlakar. I particularly welcome the amendment relating to the documents necessary for the application of a child born outside the medical institution, I think that this is a good solution, so we should certainly commend it. I am also pleased that the promoter accepted, in part accepted the remarks that my colleague Holly and I made in the first reading concerning the enrollment of gender change in the parent books. However, in my opinion, the proposer made one step here, headed in the right direction but then stopped ahead of the goal. That is why several of us representatives of the SDP Club have proposed one amendment, and I will certainly ask the proposing and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider the amendment. In fact, it's a very simple proposal, so let's simplify the process of enrolling sex change for those looking for it. Well, look, gender change, sex change in parent books isn't something a man does because he woke up one morning, didn't know what to do, and then he went to the queen and said, "Let me change the sex to see what it looks like." The people who decide to do it for a lot of deeper reasons, don't do it because it's fashionable, don't do it because it's some of their... And we to these people, people who suffer from birth dysphoria or have, not the right word of suffering, I'm sorry, they have a birth disorder we have to help as much as we can. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore urge that this amendment be accepted, i.e. to accept, that the entry of the amendment be made on the basis of requests and confirmation of the physician that the person has changed the sex or that he is living in another identity. Such a change will not do society any harm, legal certainty will not be questioned and the person seeking it will make life much easier. Since more or less everything is said, this is the second reading I will stop here, but I will still take advantage of the opportunity to call, like my colleague Holly, other institutions, institutions such as the Ministry of Health, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance to stop discriminating persons with gender dysfunction, to stop treating them as cosmetics and to give them the health care they have the right to. And here I will remind you that, for example, one Iran co-finances such procedures and the Republic of Croatia does not. And that's something we have to change anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39544	Thank you. The final word of the Minister of Management of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39545	Here I thank Mr. Vice President, thanks to both colleagues and colleagues for the good and constructive debates, thanks for the praises and for the criticisms. I understand them well on purpose, I'd like to give some explanations. So, as far as accepting the objections to the Family Law and leading the Mother married and in paper form, it's about a similar thing as we had when we passed the Law on the Registration of the Voter and the Housing Act. So we went parallel to one process, used the term residence, and in the meantime the proposal changed, and in the second reading, we returned the term residence. It was the same with these queens married. Namely, the process of amending the Family Law went parallel to one part and then when we saw that it would not take place parallelly we had to return a new, old provision to the law in order for the laws to be harmonised. As for the claim, then, that it would not be possible to see that someone had changed sex in 31, 38, or 24 years, so it would be possible to see it in the check, therefore, in the queens, because it remains in the books. However, this provision which is now, to which there has been an objection, is among other things an international standard and a requirement, therefore, between the other and the Advocate General, because it is estimated that the current provision is discriminatory in relation to these persons and is therefore now within the law. As for the conclusion of a consular marriage, therefore, it is now possible only in the Federal Republic of Germany and remains possible. So the only question is where will the data be, who will have it, where the confirmation will be sought. Why the City Office of the City of Zagreb, for the same reason why the information about Croatian citizens residing outside the Republic of Croatia is run by the City Office for the General Administration of the City of Zagreb. As for the fact that not all records are yet in information form, therefore, still in three counties are not fully entered, but this is also about older data and they will, of course, be entered, so that there is no confusion, so the parent books are still kept in the competent offices. They will be managed in electronic form in the future when they are over 100 years old and transferred to the Croatian State Archives. And these data will remain in electronic form. And as for Mr Grubisic, this pension problem was resolved, therefore, it was current in 2010, but by connecting the queen with the HZMO system it was possible that when the death information was obtained to stop paying the pension... It has, since 2012, been. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, if you've read the reports, they're for 2011 and for part of 2012 so we've now connected it, and we've connected it before and with HZZO, so for health care alike that in the event of death, doctors don't get the head start for these patients. What remains remains are citizens of people who are receiving pensions, which are not given death information, so there are also non-retired pensions. As far as I know, and I know that because we've been working with HZMO again for the voters' list, that every six months they're looking for proof that someone's alive to pay their pension, and if they don't get proof, then they stop paying their pension. If someone's alive, they'll probably come forward and they'll pay off their backs, and if they're not, then you know they're right, then there's death information that needs to be returned to what was paid before, after death. And at the same time, we use that data to delete someone from the voters' list for death, noting that they write on the basis of HZMO's data, so if that information is found to be incorrect, then that's correct. So this part about pensions is being resolved and I believe that by connecting and other bases, we're going to remove some more illogicalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39546	Thank you very much. Now we're going to stop working at today's session and we're going to continue tomorrow at 9.30. We will discuss the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in relation to interstate adoption. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39547	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State nuts, second reading, P.Z. No. 165. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 98 for and 3 votes against the accepted proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Minister of the Administration of the Honorable Arsen Bauk to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39548	The amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the law enter into force on the 8th day of its publication in the National Journal because the proposal for the Final Proposal of the Law was intended to enter into force on 1 June as we discussed the Law in April, but after that it was not possible to pass the Law in 1 June, so we think it is logical to propose this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39549	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? No one. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Is anyone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 91 votes and 17 abstentions, have been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thus becoming an integral part of the final proposal for the text of the law. We are going to the amendments of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Please give an indication of Amendment 1 to Article 13 and Article 15 of the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39550	This amendment would improve the nomothechical expression of the article proposed. However, the government cannot accept it because it is an amendment to the Law that I wrote in 1993 or 94. And by accepting the amendment, we would have one nomotechnical statement in half of the law and the other in half the law. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will soon propose to the Croatian Parliament a new Law on the Birth Register, which will then comply with these rules of writing proposed by the Committee on Law, so here I propose, so the Government cannot accept the amendment for these reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39551	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39552	Thank you very much. They're withdrawing the amendment. Amendment number 2 to Article 29.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39553	With the same explanation, we can't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39554	The same is withdrawn on behalf of the board. Amendment number 3 to the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39555	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39556	It is accepted, becoming an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. Thank you very much, Minister. Amendments to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39557	The amendment is not accepted. So what is proposed is already resolved by contracts concluded between the Republic of Croatia and certain religious communities in matters of common interest. In the same way as access to books, the Data Protection Act is prescribed under which conditions personal data can be requested and for what purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39558	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39559	Well, I don't know if the president can accept anything the Committee has sent, but I personally accept the explanation, but I still think I have to put it to the vote because I'm just the president of that committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39560	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39562	Please state who is in favour of the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendments of Honored Representatives of Peđa Grbin, Honored Representatives Mirela Holy and Shime Lučina, Amendment No 1 to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39563	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment proposes that Article 7 and Article 9a of the Law define the conditions under which the citizen's personal status officer will subsequently sign up for gender change. That substance therefore falls solely into the question of health professions and will be resolved by the Regulation referred to in Article 36(2) of the Law which we propose, for these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment but supports the intensity of the applicants and I believe that, in that sense, the Ministry of Health will, in its Regulation, prescribe this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39564	On behalf of the Group of Representatives. Peja Grbin, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39565	I thank the Honorable Mr. Secretary. First of all, I must say that the very provision in the law is already a significant improvement in relation to the current situation in the Republic of Croatia. Our intensity was to lift it to an even higher level with this amendment. But given the view of the legislator that he accepts the intensities but that this will be settled by means of a sublegal act. We accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39566	Thank you, too. Honored Ministers of Amendment No 2 to Article 36.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39567	So argument as well as amendment number one because they're tied up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-05-22-0.u39568	The same? Okay. They're pulling the same thing? On behalf of the group of MPs, Honored Representative Peja Grbin withdrew the amendment. Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement about the final bill. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 93 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Queens Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Before we move to the next point, a respected representative of Mile Horvat appeared. Here you go.
