ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30601	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Given the public's anxiety about finding harmful substances in milk, the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Labour Labour Club is demanding that the Minister of Agriculture address the Parliament and ask for a 20-minute break so that it can come and consult on the issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30602	Your Honor, we will give a 10-minute break to the club, and we will only be able to inform the Parliament once we have full information. And before I call the CNB, I'm giving a 10-minute break. Here you go. We're here at 9.45. Thank you very much. After the break, I call on the respected representative, Branko Vuksic, to show off about the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30604	At a time when we are very much discussing how more justly to share state land for agricultural production, at a time when fierce controversy is being driven, whether the Government is favouring the new Agricultural Land Act to the greats, or does it really care about the peasant economies where the army of the unemployed could be employed just to suppress the import mafia. From another country in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina they send us unpleasant information Croatians drink unhealthy milk. And as the Ministry of Agriculture reacts to that information immediately without the controls carried out, without more detailed research, it benevolently concludes that it is domestic milk. It's unhealthy domestic, it's imported healthy. That's the milk they say the highly positioned officials of Croatian peasants from which farms do not say. If it were homemade milk, then cheeses and all other dairy products would be poisoned, and no cheeses were poisoned, neither were dairy products poisoned. This is proof that the poisoned import milk that has already come from Croatia has been processed. We wonder if it is the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Importing Milk Importers, or if it is indeed the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia, or if it is a ministry as we have already said by the Ministry of Ivica Todorovic. Why, with so much certainty without the necessary checks, they blame the domestic dairy on the native peasant. What was the rush of judgment? They say domestic cows feed on poor contaminated food. They say food from imports again. The question again is, who allowed the import of toxic food for cattle? Who will be responsible for the damage done? If the harmful ingredients were found in the section of Vindy and Dukat's milk, how do the high-ranking officials in the ministry know it's exactly from domestic cows? Does that mean that Vindi and Dukat don't even import milk, which is probably not true. How they know that Vindi and Dukat didn't import that milk, exactly the milk that was rated in Bosnia and Herzegovina as bad for citizens' health. Or we are so half-trons that we dare not even question what comes from Europe, from the European Union, from neighbouring countries. It is also a great shower that the harmful ingredients in milk have been discovered in another country that we often view unjustly as high. What are our services doing? What kind of food are we eating? What other than milk is contaminated? Can we trust the services that control food quality? What are we importing? What kind of garbage do we eat that we don't know? Does anyone care about the physical health of the nation when the government is working day by day to worsen the mental health of the Croatian people. All these questions are expected by Croatian citizens to have urgent answers here in the Parliament that must finally become a place to settle the bill. The accounts must be held here, and when asked for by the MPs, the accounts should also be held by the prime minister, the accounts should also be held by ministers. That is why we asked for the Minister of Agriculture to be shown about this not very small scandal that leads to doubts about the quality of Croatian food. And of course Croatian citizens are worried about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30605	Thank you, Your Honor. All questions raised on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club are legitimate, and for answers to these questions let's be realistic and fair. We can get it when they're established. In fact, you all know it because you do public work that the process of determining facts from dairy to food and milk producers is under way. Some of the analysis will be done outside our country. If the point is to get the right information then we will really wait and give it to the Croatian public and you in the Croatian Parliament. If it's the point of the minister coming, we'll insist. He's busy right now, but he can only give what he has and what's available. Thank you very much. And now we'd be back on the agenda. Half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. I repeat, the Croatian National Bank submitted this Report on the basis of Article 62. The law on the Croatian National Bank. You received the proposal by mail. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Relja Martic, deputy governor of the Croatian National Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30606	Here is the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs and MPs. I will start with the character of monetary policy carried out by the CNB in the first half of last year, but also which it generally implements because one of the most common monetary policy remarks it has been for some time that it is not encouraging enough and that the CNB, unlike some other central banks such as the US FED, is not concerned about growth and employment but only about prices and exchange rates. I've had the honour of speaking to you last fall, and for this reason I've always started with the claim that the CNB has been implementing a really countercyclical policy for a decade and that monetary policy in the years of the brake booms, and in years of crisis, has lifted a series of restrictive measures and thus reduced the regulatory cost of banks. And this reduced cost and very high liquidity in the system tried to modulate the resulting situation but still keeping an eye on, above all, its basic legal task, which is, as you know, maintaining low inflation. So our Central Bank is doing in this crisis what other central banks are doing only in accordance with their instrumentation, the circumstances in which it works with Croatian specificities. We cannot literally copy the FED or the ECB for a series of more or less obvious reasons, but we are essentially doing the same. The primary kuna liquidity is very high, and so on. The structural surplus of liquidity has been moving somewhere between 4 and 5 billion kunas for a long time. He's about six billion kuna at this point. For example, the interest rate on the vault's one-year vault records by which the finance ministry is in debt on the money market at the latest kuna auction was 2.49% related to the euro 1.85% annually. So it's practically about significantly negative real interest rates, if we include inflation in these calculations. In the event that credit programmes are more rapidly spent on bank purposes, the CNB will, without delay, release additional liquid assets, possibly by reducing the reserve rate and by introducing reverse repo auctions, and perhaps by some other extraordinary auctions. This is the nature of the monetary policy that is being implemented today, such is the character and all of this applies to the period of the first half of last year. In this period, the Central Bank continued its policy of providing favourable liquidity from earlier years, and with HBOR and banks it launched a new programme of stimulating business lending with development potential. Mandatory reserve rate down from 15% to 13.5%. In this way, the funds that the banks have channelled into HBOR's loan have been released. Together, one credit potential of nearly 7 billion kuna has been achieved with HBOR and banks participating with equal amounts, and the Central Bank further includes the calculation of minimum foreign exchange claims and thus significantly reduces the regulatory costs for banks so that credits for end-users in this programme are granted at very favourable interest rates. The average end-user rate was below 4%. However, even with such a favourable cost of using available credit potential, it did not go well enough, fast enough. The program is not yet exhausted and completed. Nor did other credits to banks during this period significantly slowed down growth. Obviously, we are faced with a very complex problem that is not monetary in nature and that the monetary measures themselves, although they are really necessary to help, are certainly not enough to reverse existing trends. After 4 years of crisis, banks are burdened with already large and increasing low-paying and uncharging claims and are very cautiously entering new risks. On the other hand, we also see one particular hesitation of borrowers possible in taking new loans and new business risks. But the bigger problem is that even those who would probably want to and could invest what businesses in general have had in Croatia without their own sources to participate in such projects are already collateralised or pawned. All this was reflected in the movement of credit and monetary aggregates in the first half of 2000, but of course in the coming months. The total credits of banks to companies in the first half of the year were reduced by 6 billion kuna, however, it should be pointed out that this is more the statistical effect of changing the sectoral sectoral sectoral sectoral sectorality because, during that period, there was an advertising of shipbuilding credits, i.e. the takeover of loans given to the state of 6.7 billion. So, if the effect of taking over shipbuilding loans is excluded by the state, we see that in this part of the year loans to businesses are not reduced, but they have recorded some very slight growth. We also have data for December, and although it's not today's topic, let me comment very briefly in this way, perhaps I'm speeding up some wrong conclusions. Data for December compared to December last year show that loans to businesses in Croatia fell by 11.5%. However, again I say in this statistical data there is this effect of carrying long shipbuilding to a country of 6.7 billion. There is also the effect of transferring a part of an active bank in December to a company owned, indirectly owned by a bank of a mother, and there it could join the effect of the foreign, two large companies that then used this foreign debt to repay the loan in the country. If we threw it all out together then we'd get instead of 11.5% of the decline that the rest of the entire population in the company sector still had a 1.5% growth. All this time, the population continued to slowly deleverage, and the loans to the population were reduced in the first half by 800 million kuna, the state's loans increased by 5 billion, however, and yet this has, contained that effect of the shipbuilding credit transfer so that net loans de facto to the domestic state fell during that period. Such movements at the placement station led to a total drop in the so-called ". the net domestic activity of the banking system, and then, of course, this was reflected on the side of the Passive. The currency mass decreased by 1.4 billion, and the money quasi increased very mildly 333 million kuna, with a decrease of both kuna and foreign deposits of companies, while moderate growth of around 650 million kuna and significantly more pronounced growth of 1 77 million kuna was achieved in kuna or foreign deposits, i.e. savings of the population. All together on the side of a passive total so-called. M4's largest monetary aggregate has been reduced by 1 50 million, which is again significantly less than the decline of the net domestic activity I described earlier, but the difference is then seen naturally in the net foreign exchange, net foreign activity. In this place I would like to comment on Croatia's short and foreign debt, because it gives us a round picture of the financing of companies. The foreign debt of other domestic sectors, it is precisely the companies that fell in the first term with 177m euros, and amounted to 20 billion euros at the end of June. Of course, there is also a certain effect of taking over the long shipbuilding since the state has taken part of the foreign shipbuilding debt, about 250m euros along the way. So we can say when this effect turns out to be that the foreign debt under the company has actually grown slightly in this period. Overall, in all sectors, in the first half of last year, the foreign debt increased from 45.7 billion to 46.6 billion, so for some 800m euros and some million euros, primarily due to the borrowing of the state which increased its debt by 1.2 billion euros while banks were deleveraging, but in that period their debt to the abroad and foreign deposits fell, which are mainly relations with their mothers, owners of a total of 350m euros. So we can see in the last few years actually that the larger time our foreign debt has stabilized somewhere at about 100, 101, 100% gross domestic product. Of course, this is also influenced by the fact that the real gross domestic product has been stagnating or reducing for several years and real GDP in the first quarter of last year experienced a slight decline compared to the previous quarter of 2011 by 1.4% and after that decline occurred in the second quarter of a certain stabilisation at that lower level. However, when we look at those percentages that the State Statistics Institute usually shows, these are percentages of annual growth or decline, the first quarter of the first quarter of the previous year, the second quarter of the second year. So if we look at that de facto we get a different picture because in the first quarter that rate was -1.3%, in the second one it deepened to -2.2% but it was definitely just the effect of the base period. The main negative remains in growth, i.e. GDP's declines keep coming from personal consumption and investment, while exports are too weak to reverse trend. However, due to the good export of services and due to one stagnant import, total imports and due to some other components of the current account, the balance of the current account continues to improve, and Croatia in fact has now practically balanced its current payment account after a number of years of major deficits and minuses. Employment decreased slightly in the first half of 2012, while the unemployment rate... The data, internationally comparable, therefore I use these survey data, amounted to as much as 15.5% and was particularly poor in younger generations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for this reason, because of the trend in consumption, the situation in the labour market, the movement of the total population's income pressures on price growth during that period were mainly due to administrative price changes. The annual inflation rate rose from 1.2% in January to 2.2% and 3.8% in June, and this in the first row was due to an increase in VAT rates and household energy prices. The fact that it is the main effect shows also the movement of so-called. the index of basic inflation, hence the index from which the effect of administrative prices and seasonal agricultural products was derived, which was 2% at the beginning of the half-year and at the end of the half-year was the same moderate 2%. As regards the situation in the banking system, the quality of the placements was expected to continue to decrease after 4 years of the crisis and due to the reduced situation and aging of portfolios, the growth of relative share of non-refundable and partially compensateable loans continues. This share of bad loans increased to 11.2% at the end of 10 to 12.4% at the end of the 11th and 13.3% at the end of June 2012. The same trends remained in the sectoral sectoral structure, so that the ratio of bad loans given to companies increased in the first half of 2012 from 20.1 to 22.8% while the ratio was much smaller and much slower, was 8.6% at the end of 2011 and at the end of the first half of 2012. 8.9%, so from 8.6 to 8.9% and that could be more of the impact of the reduction of the denominator itself, the overall state of credit to the population. As for bank profits, it continued its multi-annual decline and in the first half of 2012 before tax was 2.1 billion and that was about 15% less than in the same period of the previous year. According to preliminary data for the whole last year, the bank's profits actually decreased by about 25%. Thus, profitability indicators continued to decline and the average return on activity decreased from 1.2% to 1.1% and the average return on capital from 6.9 to 6.3%. The drop in profitability is evident, he is persistent, his pace is quite strong. It is even a little accelerated, and although it is still not concerned with the stability of the banking system in the conditions of liberalised financial flows and the degree of integration of the Croatian banking system into the European banking system, it can certainly cause a faster flow of funds from Croatia into the country in the future with higher rates of capital transfer. When I was talking about foreign debt, I mentioned that bank deleveraging in the first half was relatively mild. However, it has shown that the more sensitive has accelerated in the second half of the year but is still not stronger than the average for other Eastern and Southeast European countries. Banks are simply due because they do not grow domestic loans and we can argue that it is not a reverse process, in other words we estimate that such a movement of foreign sources of domestic banks is not a limiting factor for credit growth or distorts credit stability, financial stability. Although there are certain side effects such as very slow reduction of passive interest rates, hence, we also have a result in a slow reduction of interest rates on loans with the impact of the loss of active bank quality. Finally, when I talk about financial stability and resilience to shocks, we can say that the financial system as a whole is still very well capitalised and that it is therefore resistant to possible even stronger shocks such as a further stronger drop in GDP, although reservations for bad credits compared to similar countries are certainly not particularly high, the appropriateness of capital certainly is. Capital adequateness is over 20%, and yet HMB can give satisfactory estimates of financial stability and resilience with the right and justification. However, over time, the extended climate, the bad economic situation becomes with external vulnerability and an increasing dependence on unpredictable international financial markets is increasing the risk of this financial stability, and that is why I would conclude in the end with that finding and those assessments that are at the very beginning of this report in the summary of factors limiting growth, which limit our growth here for the fifth year in a row are naturally unfavourable movements in the environment and in the EU. But it is far greater, it is far more of a weak competitiveness of the Croatian economy and a poor business climate and lack of investment. The additional problem is that fiscal policy simply has no room for countercyclical action so that growth further slows down the necessary reduction of the fiscal deficit. We are fast approaching the 60% of GDP limit of public debt, public debt, and the burden of interest payments is becoming more difficult, the rating is reduced below the investment threshold, the perception of the country's risk is higher and the predictability of behaviour and perceptions and sentiments of the external markets of financial markets is increasing. The conditions and possibilities of funding budget deficits are difficult and questionable I would say. There is simply no other choice but to reduce the budget deficit and not through the revenue side because the revenue side can hardly increase more. If there is not enough space for encouraging fiscal policy, if domestic savings are not large enough for the necessary investments, if we can no longer increase our external debt then the answer is more or less obvious. The only faster way out of this situation is in reforms and measures to improve the business climate and remove obstacles, but not only remove obstacles but also create encouraging attractive conditions to invest private capital in export affairs. Exports are then becoming the main generator of growth, creating new jobs, and they are returning to increasing domestic consumption, which further accelerates employment growth and living standards. Finally, as I always say, monetary policy will continue to carry out the tasks it has obtained by law, it will implement a policy that will guarantee a relatively stable rate, relatively low inflation with great liquidity and structural surplus liquidity to help speed up the growth of credit activity and investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30607	Thank you, too. A replica of respected MPs Martina Dalic has been reported to your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30608	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy, you said during your presentation at one point that in the 12th month of last year, the loan fell, among other things, and the transfer of one bank's assets to a parent bank. If, therefore, the loans were transferred from the banking system and transferred to the company, that means that the bank actually took part of the portfolio out of the National Bank's supervisory area, because the National Bank is not doing a supervisory work on companies. I'm curious to know what this is about because exactly the supervisory action of the National Bank has been known to instigate extensive public debates over the past period, given the problems encountered in that part of the banks. And given how much you yourself have entered a banking situation burdened by unfavorable movements, this statement of yours actually leads me to think how, in what way, does the National Bank of National Bank exercise and credit operations conduct a supervisory vision or has taken over the practice that it will allow parts of the loan, parts of it actively to escape from the area of its supervisory system to which companies. I'm holding that in this situation would be an extremely dangerous practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30609	Thank you, too. Replica reply, Deputy Governor Relja Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30610	If the truth had come to one I'd say cleaning up part of a bank's portfolio and I think it's something that's basically positive because that's how banks get rid of certain burdens and then easier and faster they go into a new cycle of credit growth. So it's something in itself good. It is also true if it moves on to a professionalised company in the group but which is not essentially a credit institution over which we run a supervisory system then it must be done in a way to ensure that the equal treatment remains and in no way is allowed to make the position of debtors now in these new conditions difficult or corrupt. I think that we have found ways to reconcile it all together and that banks can only do such jobs with one strict adherence to certain HNB instructions that go exactly to ensure that the position of the client, the debtor who now has a new believer, is not in any way compromised and that it continues to act as if it were with the bank. Of course it's not the same, but it's one way that I would say satisfactorily satisfied these conflicting interests that banks' balance sheets are clean, relieved of what's bad and to create a new investment cycle and again the positions of those who change their credentials in that situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30611	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget want to present a report? No, I don't. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30612	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected by the Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. Under CNB law, the Croatian Parliament twice annually reports on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. The same 62nd article states that the CNB may publish those financial and other reports and, where appropriate, publish other reports and analyses related to financial and economic issues, so it can but does not have to, because the CNB is independent. Nevertheless, it is responsible for the Croatian Parliament which did not oblige the CNB to provide it with financial and economic analysis. An even more illogical provision was written in the law voted in the Croatian Parliament, the one on business audit. Article 61 states: the revision of the drawn financial reports and the overall business of the CNB shall be published by independent external auditors according to the rules on audit and international audit standards. The decision to elect an auditor to carry out the audit of the financial reports of the CNB shall be adopted by the Finance and State Budget of the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the HNB Council. So, the Council of the CNB itself proposes which auditor will engage. That is why it is not surprising that three years in a row of audits were carried out by the same auditory house. Why not be entrusted with the same task logically to ask, and this fourth year in a row. I'm going to ask a school question, which is the basic goal, and then the work of the CNB. I will also try to give a school answer, achieve and maintain price stability. The CNB is therefore in charge of control, and then the suppression of inflation, but have we ever heard what the stability rate is, 1 or 2%, is that 4 or 5%. Besides, which is the last line of defense or maybe defending what happens. According to the 2008 law, the CNB is responsible for the stability of inflation, but the CNB did not declare in any of its documents what rate of inflation it considered stable. On the contrary, the European Central Bank announced that it considers its target a stable inflation of 2% annually. The rate of inflation in Croatia has already reached 5%. According to the practice of not explaining or not setting the CNB targets and the governor, an inflation of 10% can declare stability. Therefore, Croatian Labourists require that the CNB officially publish the inflation rate it considers stable within a month and thus define its responsibility. It would be logical in view of our aspirations for the CNB to look up to the European Central Bank and to follow this practice of clearly set objectives. In the half-yearly information, I do not know which way, according to the already established practice, criticises the government's fiscal policy and shares tips for getting out of the economic depression without the will and need for the CNB to be actively involved in solving these major sustainability issues as many independent Croatia's most important problems. The CNB declares itself neutral and without any responsibility for this uncomfortable situation. Well, it's not the only job of the CNB to keep prices stable, but let's look a little wider at what central banks are doing in Europe and outside Europe. So we need support for economic growth and development. In that direction, the CNB didn't do anything. The CNB is and should be independent in the implementation of monetary and foreign policy, but cannot be excluded from responsibility for the overall economic situation. The growth of inflation, high interest rates during depression, the huge indifference of the economy is just some of the problems for which a more strong engagement of the CNB is needed. It turns out that the key task of the CNB is to defend the course, defend the interests of the banks and defend the interest of the importer that I was talking about at the beginning of today's session. In this document the truth is lower information without the necessary quality analysis, and it is now that analyses and answers or solutions to major economic problems in Croatia should be a key part of this report. It's a little useful from a mere stream of information. This material is, in fact, a pool of HNB newsletters and bulletins on banks also issued by HNB, which means that this document is not specifically designed for the Assembly as the competent body to which the CNB accounts for its business and work. What we've got on the bench anyone can find on the CNB website. The CNB did not appear to have made the necessary progress in increasing the transparency of its business in 2012, and it does not appear to be in 2013 either. Points and responsibilities of the CNB are not yet clearly defined. The CNB stands neutrally for economic problems despite the fact that all central banks of the developed world are dominantly relying on monetary policy as the first and strong engine to leave the recession and then, of course, on fiscal and other policies as part of macroeconomic policy. Of course, the central bank is not in charge of leading macroeconomic policy, the key is in the government. The government needs to know what the central bank and monetary policy are for it, and how both the central bank and monetary policy can be integrated into a programme to address depression and foster growth, respecting the independence of the Croatian National Bank of course. One of the biggest Croatian problems is that the previous and current government do not know how to include the Croatian National Bank in the crisis exit programme. We do not know how the Croatian National Bank should serve to promote growth or employment. Practice indicates that certain amendments to the Law on the Croatian National Bank are necessary. One of these changes concerns the possibility of buying out government bonds by the Croatian National Bank, which Croatian Labourers have already spoken about publicly. And what about this information we have in front of us? We could've already read it. She's just one of the mere formalities without which we could survive. But I don't know if we'll be able to survive without falling completely and falling into both the business and the citizens of Croatia into debt slavery, without the Croatian National Bank moving its small finger firmly standing on the defender of the defence of the exchange rate of banks and importers with the inflation that is happening to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30613	Thank you, too. Replications have been reported. The first replica and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30614	Thank you very much. Your colleague Vukšić, you said a lot of things and it is no longer a questionable fact that you have pointed out a lot of problems with the Croatian National Bank and its business. However, what disgusted me, and you did not respond to this is the statement by Vice Governor to whom Mrs. Dalic was reacting. And clear from my layman's point of view, and I believe from the layman's point of view of most citizens of the Republic of Croatia because not all economists and not everyone understands these financial flows. My colleague Dalic explained it to us. I hope I understand well that in fact the Croatian National Bank has enabled one of the banks to take over the risk credit in Croatia. Since most banks in Croatia are not ours, I am now interested in which bank is it, whose bank is it and who was being protected there? I don't know, I think it's here if the banks are going to be free of these risky loans, if I understand that it's practically free of space for them to take back these, or give these loans to re-create some form of what we're unfortunately looking at will be the consequences of them being very painful and to watch on television, and I can think that they're in reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30615	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30616	Dear colleague Novak, here I join your curiosity and I'd like to know which bank it is. But I'm just repeating the fact that I spoke and in my presentation, which is that the Croatian National Bank is protecting the course, protecting foreign banks, not protecting citizens and not helping the Croatian economy out of the crisis. She did not offer these mechanisms and also the Government does not want to serve what other countries serve in the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30617	Next replica and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30618	Dear colleague Vuksic, of course, that the Croatian National Bank must be active in its work and it is in the good part and active not only in preserving the course and stabilising the prices that are the basic function, but also in the stability of the financial system. Which means the stability of the financial system we saw after the global crisis in Europe when it was essentially shown that the Croatian National Bank's policy led to the fact that the Croatian financial system, the banking system, was one of the best and most stable in the world. The Croatian National Bank's policy continues to ensure supervision of banks and all measures implemented by the CNB in its action that this system, by entering the EU, will be one of the more stable. When we talk about the neutral behaviour of the CNB, or you talk about the neutral behaviour of the CNB in relation to the economy and the citizens, then I will repeat what was said in the introduction, which is that last year the CNB released from 15% of the mandatory reserve of banks that were exclusively used through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the promotion and development of the economy and this is an example of how the CNB and this government work will continue to work in cooperation to facilitate the economy of more favourable loans, liquidity, stability and development.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30619	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30620	Dear colleague, I agree with you that, the Croatian National Bank is active in the stability of the financial system only needs to ask what is stable in Croatia. You say banks, our banks. First of all, banks in Croatia are not Croatian banks, as much as you claim. They are registered in Croatia. However, whether the Croatian citizens' budgets are stable, happening to Croatian citizens, with the poverty of Croatian citizens. Just think of an example of Iceland that didn't do what we did, but now they're getting away with the crisis. The question is whether we are mystifying the position of banks, whether banks should be defended at all costs, and citizens exposed to poverty and debt slavery. Who's there for that? Is there a CNB because Croatian citizens or Croatian citizens exist because of the CNB and the banks that are protected by the CNB? I think you have turned a little state function and the function of institutions operating in Croatia, as well as those taking very large capital from the country to help with this capital development of your countries. I don't think the CNB did anything in that direction. She made it, but for foreign countries' budgets, not Croatia's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30621	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is now up to the Independent Representatives' Club and Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30622	Mr. President, Mr. Vice Governor. We find in this information on the financial situation the degree of price stability and the implementation of material policy one economic social moment in Croatia. It's okay, that's where we should go from here, but no one to tell us so neither the CNB how to just get out of this crisis but they're going to say it's not a bank job, it's a government job, it's a local self-government business, it's a job of some other institutions. However, on what was put here in this report an emphasis? Where do you think you're going? What, in my court, is the most dramatic and I'm kind of looking at it from the Istrian perspective in which this report says the same thing, which is a dramatic drop in exports. Here in Istria even more than elsewhere. In 12 months 2012, our exports are lower than in 2011 by 27.7% or a billion 300 and some million US dollars is $900 million. $400 million in exports are smaller, only in Istria. It's the equivalent of a year's work, but not when it works 100%, but when it works to express myself or find 150 percent. If we add and import it then the trade in goods only Istria is 2.5 billion kuna smaller in 2012 compared to 2011. Then what does that mean? That it's permanently pulling 2.5 thousand jobs behind it. Somewhere else in Croatia may be far worse. So what do you say in this information? Here, I am literally quoting the Economic Movement, it says: "Most of the main Croatian foreign and trade partners in the first half of 2012 have significantly slowed down, especially in the second quarter. This has also negatively affected real movements in Croatia. This has led to a stronger decline in economic activity in Italy and Slovenia, which also reduces Croatian exports, but has increased in the trade with Austria and in the segment of goods exports and with Germany thanks to the increased tourist arrival in Croatia." What is a confirmation of the crisis, according to my court, when I look at this information, is expressed in this introduction where literally banks were said to have achieved profits before taxes of 2.1 billion kuna during the first half of 2012 which is 15.2% less compared to the same period in 2011. As net operating income decreased and the costs reserved for losses, profitability indicators at the level of all banks fell from 1.2% at the end of 2011 to 1.1%), at the end of June 2012, and from 6.9% to 6.3%, respectively. So in Croatia, this is how I figure it out, more, that I might be cynical, or even banks don't write well. And that's actually the point. What do you do? The fundamental question is, will our economy grow in 2013? A lot of people just doubt that. To encourage growth, we need to boost consumption, we need to boost exports, we need to boost investment. In one word, economic activity in this country should be significantly higher. But that's all easy to say. The consumption in the store is down by 6.1% in 12 months 2012. So people just don't have and don't spend, not to spend. They'd spend but they don't. But the downfall of a store that is somehow the last in that consumer chain behind it are these customers by some logic, falling and manufacturing, falling traffic, falling services, falling bank activity. Plasma banks in 2012 were reduced by 8 billion kuna. Most of the capital escapes from the company and their total level of credit, I tell companies in 2012 not only for the first 6 months decreased by 15 billion kuna. So, logically, where are these new posters going? They're heading for the country. Banks run away from the real sector in one word today, and we see that the share of bad credits was 14.9%. It's probably going to be bigger this year. Therefore, gentlemen, let us not look forward to the bad luck of the Croatian banks, which in the first 6 months of 2012 earned a profit of 2.1 billion kuna. That's about 270 million euros. It seems to me at the end of the year that it was about three and a few billion kunas, somewhere around 500 million euros. And it's about 31 banks and plus how many five savings. If the banks stay without getting a private sector, they'll run out of money. He'll just be out of loans. Foreign owners withdraw both money and profit. I mean, here, clearly on the banks. According to some 27 billion kunas, i.e. 3.6 billion euros were withdrawn in 2012 from Croatian banks. It's a lot more than anyone or anyone could actually assume. That's the data I just pulled from this bank's BIS for international alignment yesterday. It is 8.4% of Croatian gross social product. Banks, especially these Austrian ones, are gro, for example in Croatia along with these Italian ones, tied new loans exclusively to these local deposits in principle as much as saving so many loans, in one word they play it safe. But the problem is that savings, which is still bigger than loans, and there is no investment, which is no investment, and that people simply don't spend under these circumstances. I said the bad credit exposure was 14.9%, maybe 16% this year. Loss reservations have melted bank profits for 1 billion kuna, I speak for 2012. And now it's easy to say, what to do, the stories of increasing exports, reforming shipbuilding, reducing unemployment, growing agriculture, are all political larpurlartism, if we don't say how to just do it. Normally, nothing should do against major economic systems first, but they should do anything for those small ones. On today, we have about 1,350,000 workers on the other side of the 1,200,000 pensioners, in the real sector, at this point perhaps 1,150,000 workers are working. To be clear, I do not care, but the fact that 1 150,000 people in this real sector must be followed by 1 200,000 pensioners and I do not know 270 000 people employed in that public sector plus 370,000 unemployed today. We literally have to start holding every job as a little bit of water on the palm of our hand, and that's why a lot of politics needs to be allowed people to work, to have. In the small sector, between 1,150,000 and 700 to 800 000 were employed, I repeat nothing against the large ones, but in order to survive small mainly when the Croatian EU market opens, I think we will have to put emphasis on them. As far as tourism is concerned, only one data, data from the Croatian National Bank in tourism transport are constantly mentioned in the range of 2.3 to 2.5 billion kuna. Now some speak from 20,000 rooms in seven years. I know that in 2013, in 2014, God forbid at least 2015, but not a single hotel with more than 100 rooms will be built in Istria, and about a third of this Croatian tourism revenue will be lost in Istria. The ministry of small crafts is doing serious things for me. Mr. Linic announced everything about exports, we'll follow everything, that's what's really necessary, he said another sentence: "The 300 Commissioners will volunteer in the future." Which I also a little, I think is good, not to cut out small municipalities but to make everyone just volunteer. This morning this farm was also mentioned, absolutely that I am sympathetic to the reality of Croatian peasants, a series of their demands is absolutely legitimate, and these days they are gathering on the roads, in our counties, someone said earlier Croatia imports huge quantities of milk, I don't know. These importers blackmail our peasants, not the states, with the state they easily deal with, but with importers far more difficult. I don't think a peasant should be envious of what a 300 thousand kuna tractor has, because without it, it can't work, but it also has 300 thousand kuna credits. Finally everything is mortgaged to him, from house to barn, without a building permit clearly, and he needs to meet to make these fees less, inherited property, etc. I agree, there are farmers who live above average, there are those and there are those who work above average, and they live below average and it is clear that they need help, they need help. What's also a fact, we can't expect only the state to save. I agree that the state should be decentralised, but local self-government has about 20% circus, slightly less 19% of income when we look at and compare what we'll talk about later in this income audit, financial revenues. The state of 119 billion kuna last year, local self-government 21.9 billion, so let someone figure it out, what exactly is the 20% circus. Secondly, what else to say here, even our banks after all this time for the first time have this problem, it's not good. What is necessary is to start spreading, I don't know how to express myself, optimism, work, spend, pay taxes, pay your wages clearly and have and don't envy those who can simply work in this country decently from their work and live. Clearly, the emphasis is if they came to something honestly and if they created something honestly, they made a fair profit. The new government is taking over the country, I dare say under never more difficult circumstances. I believe we'll get out of the crisis. In 2013, it will be a difficult year, I hope that the parameters will be better in 2014, if not, God help us, but that the government has come to grips with never more difficult circumstances, I guess that's just the truth. And in that context, I dare to end it somehow, we are the key, among other things, to the bank, without their larger engagement, it's bad writing to everyone, it's an emphasis on this information. I can understand the harangu to the same because of high interest, it should be controlled to limit but without successful banks we would be worse off. Finally, here on page 21, it is said that the cost of booking and correcting the value of losses and further absorbing almost half of the profits resulting from the end of 2011, profitability as I said was reduced from those 1.2% to 1.1% and capital profitability from 6.9 to 6.3%. And finally, on page 27, says profit, the loss account, banks at the end of the first half of 2012 achieved 2.1 billion kuna before tax, which is for 382.4 million kuna or 15.2% less than profits achieved at the end of the first half of 2011. In one word and I will conclude, absolutely, that this report should be accepted, there is no dilemma but there is no need to look forward to any business subject in trouble, and so were the banks that we privatised previously 5.6 billion kunas previously rescheduling them for a few-tenths of a billion kunas that are now controlled by a circus of 400 billion kunas of Croatian assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30623	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDZ club and respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30624	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, since we are here today discussing information on the financial situation of the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy which is somehow achieved under the law has the character of the notification because Article 62(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The National Bank Act says the National Bank is notifying the Parliament on these matters. However, if today we just need to discuss the content of this notice, then basically and we have nothing, because it is indisputable that the Croatian National Bank is the most economically corrupt institution in us, it is indisputable that this report contains figures, charts, technical economic language, it is very professional and represents fiction. And that's exactly the point that we're not quite satisfied with in this report, because the factography that's been presented here, the description of economic facts, data, indicators and trends is not exactly unknown to us here in the Parliament. However, what we hold missing from this report is a professional and professional assessment, or if we wish to use the wording of the law to inform the Croatian Parliament why the situation is so bad, which is why. So we actually keep in HDZ that this report is one piece and incomplete. Everything contained in it has been presented in a very quality and very professional way. However, the conclusion of the economic judgment, the judgment of the economic profession in this report, is not quite available. And the Croatian National Bank is the place where this knowledge has, which in Croatia has actually a unique position that gives it an independence that can in an independent professional and professional way assess economic trends, assess the reasons why they are as unfavourable as the Croatian National Bank has informed us here and actually state the position of economic profession as such unfavourable trends can change. However, there is no report in this report. However, the assessment that the Croatian National Bank avoids affects the success of monetary policy and its implementation. Therefore, the legitimate question, as much as it may be for representatives of the Croatian National Bank, is not glad to hear it, but the legitimate question is whether monetary policy could have been more and better. That is what this report does not conclude. That conclusion is left to each and every one of us. It is left to the general evaluation, and yet we hold that conclusion would require both a professional court and an explanation of whether monetary policy could have been better and more, i.e. A legitimate question on which not all members of this home are obliged or able to have their own professional opinion. We therefore believe that this notice, this report is not entirely because we fully and fully support the independence of the Croatian National Bank and we hold that the Law on the Croatian National Bank should not be changed unlike some of the colleagues who put it here and proposed it. However, it is independent of many rights, but it also has a commitment, it also carries the obligation of an independent conclusion and judgment on how, in which way and which instruments Croatia can come out of the crisis more quickly and efficiently. I know that this format of reporting of the Croatian National Bank is common, but times are difficult, the challenges are enormous and even in the professional and professional work, the Croatian National Bank cannot be excluded from the contribution of seeking and finding out from the crisis. If there are reasons why a better, stronger contribution by the CNB cannot give the instruments of monetary policy as the Vice Governor has told us that the reasons for the non-monetary nature are then, however, the CNB still needs to contribute to its economic knowledge accumulated there and acquired thanks to this independence. Therefore, the CNB should not be afraid to state its opinion, express its views, because this is exactly the legal framework that we are talking about and that we are behind and that we are supporting both the bank and its representatives to speak freely, professionally and professionally about the way out of the crisis. Because the faxographs we're talking about here are well-known. We know that GDP fell in the first half of the year 1.8 and that it continued to decline in the rest of the year and that it will be possible to attend this year. We know that after the date of this report, another 64 thousand people were out of a job. We also know today that the growth in value added tax rates has been poured directly into price growth and that in your report it is shy that there has been an increase in prices due to the increase in value added tax rates. This conclusion simply could not be avoided if it was obvious, but it is a small example of how the CNB knows and can identify the causes of the problem. It should not, however, be reminded that the finance minister has widely interpreted that an increase in VAT rates will have no effect on price developments. We also know that you yourself informed us that the drop in credit activity continued in the second half of the year. We also know that the growth of suspicious and controversial claims has continued to grow so-called growth. bad bank placements, we know that the exchange rate depreciates towards the euro, not because it would be a willing depreciation to help Croatian exports, but obviously it is about signals that signal unfavourable flows and direction towards moving capital. All of these facts and all of these data we know them and they point to only one conclusion, that the economic policy that was being conducted in 2012 caused the fall of the Croatian economy through a measure that could be explained by the developments in Europe. And worse still, these unfavourable trends don't end. And monetary policy is a component of the overall economic policy only that it has been delegated to the CNB and it has been given the right and opportunity to run it professionally. Therefore, the legitimate question is whether the CNB is also part responsible for this situation or if there is something that prevents it from achieving better results? Perhaps the problem lies in the government's moves, perhaps the problem lies in those other economic policy components, but the economic profession in this report does not give us its opinion or its answer. And so the question to you is whether monetary policy can be a better legitimate issue in this House and which some MPs have already asked. And as long as the CNB reports are this factographic without getting into the essence of the problem and without making economic knowledge available how the problem will be solved in the future. 'Cause the word is, "lower demand," great. Is the aggregate demand, I mean, it's not great that the aggregate demand is going down, but is the aggregate demand going down because of monetary policy or because of the increase in the tax press? It is said in the report a drop in aggregate offer or a simpler one would be total production. Is this about monetary policy, or is it because of the government's policy, which discourages any business and any production by tax and legislative repression? We have our answers to these questions at the HDZ Club and we do not see this monetary policy as the main culprit and as the main problem. However, we expect those reporting on the implementation of monetary policy to inform us both professionally and professionally whether there are any problems and what are the reasons. Therefore, it is not possible to read the answers to these questions in your report. And what I finally want to say to the CNB has no reason to catch up on professional and clear assessments of our economic situation and there is no reason to catch up on making contributions to getting out of the crisis. In addition, we can sometimes hear at various public events that CNB representatives still have a certain vision and some suggestions on how to improve and how to resolve or at least improve the economic situation in Croatia. However, the representatives of the CNB are willing and ready to present their views at different conferences but not in the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry we don't have a chance to hear from the governor here today. I'm guessing the governor's got some kind of responsibilities. However, I think that the Croatian Parliament is the place where the governor can and must talk about these problems. It's interesting I've been following your exposure, Mr. Deputy Governor closely. It's interesting, in fact, that there were a lot more economic attitudes in your presentation than in the report itself. There is no need, you should not be afraid to write down your views because the laws adopted by HDZ in time protect you and make the governor virtually immeasurable and so should be. However, the independence of the CNB is not given for its own sake but for the benefit that the Croatian economy and the Croatian state must benefit from professional and independent monetary policy management. This benefit must be visible either in the results of monetary policy, therefore in better economic indicators, in the effects of countercyclical policy as you have said or in knowledge, knowledge, of everything the CNB has accumulated, which is why these economic results are not possible because in Croatia the lack of economic knowledge is a very important element of our economic problem. And the CNB has this knowledge and I hold that it is obliged to share it with both the Croatian public and Croatian citizens and make it available as an instrument for the contribution from the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30625	Thank you, too. There is a replica and respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30626	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Dalic said very correctly that there is no assessment of the negative trends and there is no proposal to change them in this report that came before us and she also found that monetary policy does not actually participate actively in creating economic policy in the Republic of Croatia, which is absolutely true. But I think something else has been missed, which is very current, and this is not highlighted today by a representative of the CNB esteemed vice governor has not expressed his view of the possible privatisation of the Croatian Post Bank. We do not have a clear position of the CNB on the consequences of this privatisation and whether it is necessary to enter it. I think it'd be good to hear an opinion and a vice governor about it. Our position is known not to take into account the privatisation of the Croatian Postal Bank as well as any other privatisations announced as Croatia's insurance, but I think it would be nice to hear and value the monetary policy position on this issue. We also haven't heard much about what is being prepared for Croatia's entry into the European Union. New mechanisms are currently being negotiated for the control of central banks in the European Union, and ways are being agreed as much as possible to control financial trends and everything that has caused the crisis in both Europe and the world and what will be the role and role of our central bank. It is absolutely certain that the CNB does not participate actively enough today in the creation of economic policy and does not give answers on time, as counterpart Dalic rightly noted. Is it necessary to wait for the CNB's report to hear that the VAT increase had a strong impact on price increases?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30627	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30628	Thank you very much. So, dear colleague Matušić, you have correctly noticed that the fact of entering the European Union is actually another additional challenge set before the CNB. When we become a member of the European Union, the CNB will also become a member of the European Central Bank System. It will move a little towards the way in which economic policy is run, which is common in the European Union, or finally in the euro area itself. And that's why, and that's why I think it's important for the CNB to find ways to contribute to economic recovery according to its independence. If there is a limit to this contribution to the use of monetary policy instruments, and I believe that some restrictions exist precisely because of this European system of central banks and the route to the euro area, then obvious two areas remain: the quality of supervisory and economic knowledge, the economic profession that the CNB can contribute to the quality of the overall economic policy in Croatia. And that's why we talk about it so much today because many problems burden us, in solving many problems there are in different parts of society insufficient knowledge, and the CNB has it. What is done there, as analyses are conducted there, as the Croatian economy is analysed there, I expect it to be much more quality and much more extensive than these charts and tables.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30629	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is now up to the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30630	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice Governor Matic, colleagues and colleagues. Here is another debate, therefore, on the report of the CNB on the performance of its tasks, so for the first half of the previous year, and we also know that through the materials that we have received that the Croatian Government did not have any objections to these reports. Although for most of the information listed in this report, we have, of course, fresher data and they were particularly mentioned in the opening letter, it is well known to all of us in this Chamber and to the Croatian public that the unfavourable economic movements in the Republic of Croatia in the most unfortunately continue and accumulate for the fifth year in a row of economies if we accumulate it all is about 12% of GDP. So globally, if we are talking about this period, the world economy in sum was recovering very slightly in the first part of the previous year. The recovery primarily referred to the United States and Japan, of course both China and India. But also in those countries with much lower rates than usual for these countries. So the world has made some progress in the global world, but unfortunately it has not also applied to the countries of the euro area, countries that are most important as an environment for a small economy, an objectively small economy of the Republic of Croatia. So 60 per cent of the euro area economy and business with them, so the decline in activity has been reported in the euro zone. And it has already been said from the perspective of our external and trade relations in the most significant countries, we are the most important countries in Italy and Slovenia. A little less, but it was also negative in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, which in turn reduced demand for Croatian products. A favourable movement in two other significant countries, so for Croatian exports and goods and services both Germany and Austria could not unfortunately compensate for this overall decline in consumption. For this period, it is also important to mention the stabilisation in the financial markets resulting in strong measures by the European Central Bank, and all in order to recover Europe's countries economically, which has also led the market interest rates to a historically very low level. From the perspective of the highly-indebted Croatian economy, it is good that this means that interest is relatively low. But it is clear to all of us that such a situation will not last forever and must not slow us down on the path of significant structural reforms in the field of the economy, but I also dare say the functioning of the Croatian state. We can read from this report that the continuation of recession and increased bank caution led to further decreases in total placements, so in the first half of the previous year. Smaller growth was only visible in public companies while the rest of the economy as well as the population was mostly being decomposed. If we are talking about deposits, citizens' deposits have continued to grow at a much lower rate only 1.1% while companies' deposits have decreased significantly by as much as 14% in part and due to the escape from the tax scissors, i.e. Taxing dividends that may sound bad in the short term, but long-term in this government's policy, so it's not so bad if we know that, therefore, profit tax on the invested profit by the measures and decisions we have made here together will boost our belief in the growth of the economy. The data that some in this assembly certainly cheered is that the recorded profits of banks before tax were lower by 15% than in the same period in 2011 and that such a trend continued. So, by reducing net income and increasing costs, it is reserved for losses. The banks on average fall profitability indicators, so the average return on assets falls to 1.1% in that period, actually with June at the end of the period as the return on capital falls from 7 to 6.3%. They don't bloom, so roses or bankers, at least they don't bloom in full bloom. But at least they didn't get married. So far from getting married, and it's good that as much as some colleagues here say otherwise. They're not here right now. They probably have some kind of club. I meant the labor club. The most important is that the positive fact and happiness do not have all the countries in the environment, as well as many countries in Europe. So it is that the banking system is highly stable and objectively looking very secure. The average guarantee capital ratio at the end of June was more than 20%, which has not occurred in Croatia since now since 2000. The government, the new Government of Zoran Milanovic, with a budget for 2012 for the first nominally reduced budget on the spending side compared to the previous year and a series of threatening measures from a reduction in health contributions to a reduction in a number of parafiscal burdens aimed at discharging the gross labour price and increasing the competitiveness of the economy. To achieve this goal certainly did not help accumulated debt in health care, in road construction, highways, and guarantees of the day of shipbuilding ultimately had to be taken over into public debt. A huge bogeyman's indifference with reprogrammes of accumulated debt and write-off interest is trying to ease, and within a reasonable period of time, to resolve the consistent implementation of the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement that we made at the end of last year. My colleagues and colleagues, I think it is unquestionable for all of us that the burden of the crisis that we are living should be distributed as flatly as possible. It's not just a matter of justice and morality anymore, it's also economic legality. If one sector can say the most about the banking sector only observes the collapse of business partners, so their business partners and depositaries and credit users, it can expect that its position will deteriorate rapidly within a very reasonable period. Therefore, encouraging credit activity and more favourable credit conditions is a necessary condition for reviving our economy. In doing so, maintaining the stability of the kuna as the main factor of stability and the financial system remains the main task of the Croatian National Bank. That's what the law says, and that's what's important. It gives investors security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's not forget that in the environment it's not like that. And sometimes we take this stability and security as well for granted, and we all remember the early '90s and '80s when it wasn't like that. So objectively, this security and the bankers are given the opportunity to increase credit activity towards the real sector and become ready and at increased risk. Namely, the increased liquidity programmes achieved through the downturn of the minimum reserve rates in the past year from 15 to 13 in the first part of that year, and the HBOR programmes without the active role of banks especially the largest banks, I remind you that 6 banks in Croatia hold 85% of the markets almost, were not as effective as they were imagined and how objectively they could be and what we hoped for. And it showed that experience for the past two years. Also in 2012, but also in previous years through ABC programs. Could it have been more, if it could have been better asked by my predecessor's questions. We don't all have the same thoughts, we don't all have the same amount of information. But this is one report anyway, so the report doesn't answer those questions. This report is a report of the continuity of all these previous years, adopted as such and as information such as the anti-cyclical policy of the CNB was also an expression of continuity. We can't, colleagues and colleagues, probably have big mechanisms in a way like these have great significant economies and there's certainly a maneuvering space of the CNB objectively narrowed down. And while I fully agree, I say what it is when I already refer to my predecessor, Dalic, with the view that there really is quite a capital of knowledge and experience in the CNB that can help us all get out of the crisis together. Therefore, I support the will for what I have throughout the debate not only here because I say here we obviously have one policy that things don't open up, but there are many other channels, although I say I don't mind even changing this long-term policy but there are many other channels and I see both the CNB and the leaders and especially the new CNB leader that he's not as silent in public appearances as could be understood from previous debates. Therefore, the lasting challenge remains that as high and better coordination of monetary and fiscal policy as possible, especially in the crisis conditions in which we live. The conclusion was the parent board, and as far as I can tell, all the club representatives. Certainly with full respect for the independence of the monetary government, but the same way I said and understanding the difficult circumstances that arise from an objectively small and highly realised Croatian economy, which is our objective reality. For the recovery of the Croatian economy of colleagues and colleagues, therefore, a maximum contribution is necessary, taking into account all the five years we have been sinking, the maximum contribution of all factors without exception, even though we are fully aware that the most important moves are and remain in the hands of the executive authority. The SDP advocates' club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30631	Thank you very much. The next club is the HNS club and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. ... Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have one replica. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30632	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Governor. My colleague Radjenovic, you have counted some of the government's moves here, and I would really be interested if Mr. Deputy Governor, in his final address, expressed his opinion on the position of the CNB on administrative reduction of obligations among business partners, so between banks and entrepreneurs, among entrepreneurs between entrepreneurs and the state and ultimately what will happen here. Because that money basically nobody got through to the administration. We say we've cut our liquidity by so many and so many billions of kunas, and none of those billions of kunas have even won a dime. So that's, what I'm curious about is what the CNB's position is about because some of the government's moves have put certain banks in a lot of trouble. Because the ire of the real estate market has come to a great deal of trouble from the builders who, among other things, are now one of the biggest items of pre-banking and administrative obligations, and also with the problems of the builders and certain business banks have problems because they have given the builders a lot of credit that they can't pay for right now. The Croatian National Bank has said with shyness that the increase in value added tax is reduced consumption, but it would be also very interesting to see what their general opinion of the tax press is about in Croatia. Because it was definitely taken out of the pockets of Croatian citizens last year about 4.5 billion kuna with increased taxes. So these are the facts and the 4.5 billion kuna they took last year are increasing by an additional billion and a half kuna and the question is whether Croatian citizens will be able to pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30633	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Representative Igor Radjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30634	Thank you, Mr. President. So said Mr. Shucker's administrative reduction in therefore mutual debt. I can answer the question, Mr. Shucker, do you really think it's happy and good that the mutual debts of Croatian companies have accumulated to 45 billion in these years, so in particular in the last 3.4 years, with about 15 years, so what did we do in 2008 is up to 45 billion and the state hasn't responded? I'm convinced that's good. The process has started five billion, we can, and the other day, Minister Linic announced how much of that applies to it. administrative reduction, but a good part of the seriousness in this field and the process is only at the beginning. We've passed the law, you know, and we'll discuss it here, and the government has fixed it by regulations, and the pre-warrant settlement has just begun. You were talking about the builders and the problems the pre-war settlement brought the builders to. Well, I think the builders have just come into trouble with their debt with the signatures of the contracts they had, and for which no means have been provided where many things have been hired, where we've been building things. I said something intro, though not in detail and not precisely, but many understood me, where we went to projects that were not guaranteed 20%, but absolutely nothing was provided. So the builders hired certain funds, some problems came up, and today when they're trying to get out of this situation, I think you've simply missed the question. But here, since fellow Martic is in some way called by you, I believe that he will be able to answer that question in the final consideration. In any case, the pre-banking settlement and the clearing of accumulated debt in all other ways and the tax on investment profits that no longer exists are positive measures. Whether they are fast enough and active enough about it we probably have a slow one, but the direction in which the changes are going and I hope that we will hear it today and in some other situations, we have heard a lot of it anyway positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30635	Thank you, too. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament at 11.19 expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes for this topic. It is now the turn of the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30636	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Governor, colleagues and colleagues. So on behalf of the HNS Club, I can say that we support this half-yearly financial situation information, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. This is really information, not a report, because so is the title and information, I agree with some colleagues and colleagues that all the data here is already available and published. And that's good, and that's what's important with the Croatian National Bank that there is data transparency, the speed of data, the availability of data, and from that data clearly points to the state, not only monetary policies but the macroeconomic situation in Croatia. Well, I have to look back on behalf of the HNS club and these discussions on demand from the Croatian National Bank, given that they have large analysts, economically, and indeed they have a good analysis of all movements, and all positions, and forecasts, and expectations possible to bring monetary policy into line. To plead, so it is not clear to me that the HDZ may be looking after the Church, and the CNB in an ally against this government, which still successfully ships in these recession times. And unlike the time of the HDZ Government when we read clearly in previous reports there was no cooperation between monetary and fiscal policy, we today have the cooperation of fiscal and monetary policy and this is the key to the cooperation of economic experts from the Croatian National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Is that ideal? Is that enough? Of course not, it's always missing especially in times of crisis. And the CNB with, meaning monetary and fiscal policy jointly does the part of the work they are in charge of, and neither the Croatian National Bank behaves on their part, criticism and behaviour as the position fiscally, nor fiscally behaves as the position of monetary policy because the interest of both is clear, that economic policy, and monetary and fiscal policy are unique, focused on development. Something has been touched in discussions about the influence of instruments, the opportunities of the CNB, the price stability questionnaire, is it only, is it not the only way to safeguard the stability and core activity of the CNB, the financial stability of the general system? I think it's clear, and I want to make it clear on behalf of the HNS Club that the debate on any devaluations of the course is absurd, not absurd in a democratic society, but absurd in the profession. Because the attitude of the Croatian People's Party is that any devaluation of the course would lead to general destabilisation and threaten financial stability or boost inflation. Therefore, the stability of the course, what the colleagues said, care for the citizens, the stability of the course, one of the key to having stability, and that the citizens who were encouraged by the former authorities to take out unintended credits, kill the stability of the course, so that they can ensure that they return orderly loans. The Croatian National Bank is controlling the financial system and there is a clear reading of one data here, it is not only 14% of credit, bad, or possible in part or completely non-refundable. What's important is that after 6 months, 22% of the loans that were sent to companies in that status, and what's even worse is that at the end of 2012, that percentage jumped to 24, 47 I think. Obviously, the trend remains such that it essentially indicates that the role, and the importance and work of the Croatian National Bank, is extremely important. I'm stressing again for the stability of the financial system, for the sake of control, especially what is wanted, what is being said in the collateral for certain loans that have been placed and are not chargeable tomorrow. Therefore, the work of the Croatian National Bank is much wider, our economic experts know it also in the opposition, but that the public knows that the Croatian National Bank plays a significant role in the stability of the course through stability, and primarily the stability of the absolutely financial system and that the psychological effect of the stability of the financial and banking system is both the stability and security of the citizens in, and in the Republic of Croatia. As for the recovery and possible advice expected from the Croatian National Bank, I think it is quite clear and that this is uniform and defined by the CNB, or governor and by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's the competitiveness of the economy, competitiveness, welcome, so to speak for investors. Even these discussions that have started, although the draft law is only a proposal for the Law on Strategic Investments by the opposition, are accepted as the end of the world, and in essence to speed up the procedures and allow the competitiveness of the economy, which is crucial for the growth of domestic consumption and for the growth of exports and what is most important, employment. What the government is doing, and BMH has made it clear, is speeding up structural reforms, creating easy and secure investment conditions. Flexible labour relations and labour market reforms, that's the part of the internal, internal devaluation that this government is working on because the devaluation rate is absolutely inadmissible and would endanger the complete system as I said. The reduction of public sector works and the increase in efficiency, the rise in productivity of the public sector and its restructuring and the absolute exploitation of all savings and savings space in the public sector is the part of the internal devaluation that this government is working on and I believe that the effects will be visible, clear absolutely this year. It is essential, of course, to be internationally competitive and attractive to the investor. It is the key that we must achieve together with the Croatian National Bank in this segment, which it controls, on which it works and I believe it will be expressed. Roughly speaking, the real interest rate today is greater than real economic growth, it is absolutely clear to all of us and it seriously threatens and is a serious threat to the sustainability of public debt because it is growing faster than GDP. This is the task of all these measures that I have listed and these measures carried out by the Croatian National Bank, safeguarding the stability of the course, and I would like to stress this on behalf of the HNS club by safeguarding the stability of the financial system. The prophylacticity of a banking system where some pay for it is said to support the large, large and financial to make a living at the expense of citizens or entrepreneurship, so only the profitability of the system indicates that the system is stable and it ensures the possibility that we have lower interest tomorrow and that we have the opportunity to develop using the banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30637	The first replica, the esteemed representative of Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30638	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Gjurkovic, you said in your presentation whether HDZ is looking for a co-worker in the CNB against this government, I am in favour of seeking as much expertise and professionalism as possible in the assessment of our current economic situation, and why do you think that if the CNB gave such an assessment that it would be against this government? Maybe all great, maybe you'd get plus 5 for all of these results that the CNB prescribed in its report. So don't object to the expert, economic evaluation of the economic policy run by this government. There's no reason for that, you might also get positive grades, I doubt it, I personally doubt it. But I'd like to see the waist undisputed in the CNB. You fellow Gjurkovic like to talk about the coordination of monetary and fiscal policy not only today but also often you said that the sudden coordination of monetary and fiscal policy has become excellent and that there is now unlike before when it was not there. The quality of that coordination is measured in economic indicators and results. In 2012, minus two, every quarter in minus, 2011 still 0 with two quarters in plus. These are the results and measures of the coordination of monetary and fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30639	In response, the esteemed representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30640	If all these distinguished colleagues were that simple, then it would be true. So the collaboration or not the co-operation of the then authorities with the CNB has resulted in major problems and they are expressed in all the reports we read and can read in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of reports that were for 2010. And 2011. A year. When you inherit what we inherited as this government, then it is quite clear that you cannot change things from the foundation, roots overnight. Insolvency and indifference, poor economic situation, 70,000 legal and natural persons in the blockade and 365 days, these are all figures, etc., that I do not now list which are quite clear that neither monetary or fiscal policy can solve this overnight by one move. However, cooperation to repeat once again, by reducing the minimum reserve and using funds for the liquidity of the economy, cooperation in pre-banking deals is more than serious, more than the quality that I believe will absolutely result by the end of the year. Cooperation and discussion on how to conduct monetary and fiscal policy is not done by a respected colleague through the media and through the stands and round tables. It is done in a way to sit down both the government and the CNB to professionally analyse and prepare measures and instruments to get the country out of the crisis. If you expect the CNB to attack the government through the media I'm sure you won't get that as well as the Government towards the CNB. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30641	Second replica, Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I am repeating what you have said and stressed, a wonderful cooperation between monetary and fiscal authorities. It has already been said as a result of this cooperation. Historically since 2002,... historically than marking 10 years the highest unemployment rate of 370 thousand, the decline in consumption minus 6%, to remind the 2011 average consumption growth was 4%. You have a decline in industrial production, you have a decline in investment compared to 2011 and your co-operation with the monetary authority suggests that this monetary authority is responsible for these results. So you're saying that the CNB has blessed me to say that the VAT rate rises from 23% to 25% since the CNB is responsible for price stability here they say inflation growth is 4%, which was primarily the result of administrative decisions, which led to an increase in VAT rates from 23% to 25% and on which they accumulated electricity, gas in May, etc. And then they say after the cattle caused by the increase in VAT rates and the price of energy for the population, monthly rates, etc., etc. So we know that it is an economic dictionary of analysts in the CNB but we understand that an analyst in the CNB has experienced shock, and imagine that the citizens of Croatia have only experienced the shock of increasing the prices of everything and everything in Croatia, of course, which has caused the drop in demand and thus the decline in industrial production and ultimately resulted in 60 thousand new unemployed at the Croatian Employment Office. This is the result of your cooperation. Whatever you say about the legacy that you have at least managed to maintain the level of economic activity in 2011.Today in Croatia would have lived better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30643	A fellow Popijac, the replica corresponds to the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30644	Dear fellow, we can freely say that pumping consumption artificially created artificial figures. And then when you introduce order to the state and you say tax has to be paid, wages have to be paid, contributions have to be paid, then all of a sudden it's seen that it was all unreal, that it was made up for politics and not for real life and economy. Well, of course, unfortunately, at the Employment Service, there will be an increase in the number of unemployed when you have 60,000 workers and workers in companies who haven't paid their salary in 365 days. Well, they were already at the Employment Service, they were actually supposed to be and they were being held as employees. Insolvency and insolvency, non-payment. So take a look at what essentially showed an analysis of the dues found in the budget of unpaid accounts, etc. So this was all some of the artificial consumption that was hidden so that we would have to cover these expenditures today, but we will certainly succeed and start investment cycles regardless of what you think or want.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30645	Next replica, respected Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague in most of your presentations you actually praised the stability of the course because we are a highly Eurosed society. This is the truth we are highly euroked because we have a large number of loans in euro, a large number of loans are in euro because we have the euro parity and the kuna stable, we keep it, so we are not highly euroed because we have been hit by lightning, but because we have decided to be high-euroized. It's all expensive one-round vitiosus or a vicious circle as it's called Croatian. The fact that this same course is completely unrealistic and we all know it is clear to everyone and we all admit it and that this unrealistic course has ruined the Croatian industry but not only industry but also a good part of agriculture, that is not important. We must maintain stability. The fact is that the devaluation of the kuna with the foreign clause would destroy a complete system and most Croatian citizens would come headlong. But without the foreign exchange clause with the abolished foreign exchange clause, something else would happen, for those who have so far drawn the biggest profit from the entire system, i.e. banks. But we keep an eye on the stability of our banks that aren't even our own, and it's important that we don't jeopardize the banking system that we have 8 billion dollars every year of money being exported abroad. Why are we doing this? I guess that's what those who do it know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30647	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30648	My dear colleague, I am pleased that you agree with my view that any devaluation of the course would lead to the instability of the system. And that's basically all said about course. And this is your usual populist statement and crying over the fate of some and criticizing as a bank is the usual phrase that I think is already quite recognized in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30649	We're moving on with the replicas. Dear Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Gjurkovic, you said in your debate that improving the public sector is key to what this government is working on. Well, since we're talking about a mid-year 2012 report, I'm going to bring out what the government was doing, or the public sector. During this period, the public sector, if we are watching through the public sector and 20 of the most important state-owned companies in that period has operated with 257 million kuna, which was compared to the year before HDZ led the government, when the result for these same public companies was 577 million kuna, so that you simply calculate that for the same period, a lower score of 835 million kuna was obtained, and during that same period, the public sector of which the government so publicly advocated was responsible for almost 4 billion kuna. So this assessment of the public sector's work, about practically the companies that were to launch investments in Croatia, should have stimulated economic growth, should have stimulated production, should have created new jobs, had absolutely won the full debacle. Well then, I expected that in that part you might look back at those companies that were doing this catastrophic business, and the fact is that during that same period, these public companies that were to start investments in Croatia were mainly investment and stopping. I'll just remind you what's going on in road construction, what's going on in the announcement of building major energy facilities. Practically every project this government was supposed to open has come to either giving up or not, and this same public sector should have stimulated all economic growth in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30651	Replication response, esteemed Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30652	Dear fellow, remember that the government has taken 500 million kunas from HEP and what happens after that, normally lacks funds and there are normal problems in the functioning and operation of HEP. The takeover and the clean start that was made in all public companies immediately made it clear that the first restructuring was to be done, not inherited projects, but projects that have yet to be prepared is quite clear and logically looking for a certain period of time. We'll see what the results will be at the end of the year, so I think your rhetoric will be quite different too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30653	Next replica, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Gjurkovic, in this one of yours, I would say Colloquially by calling it the nerd tract of the CNB and monetary policy in the Republic of Croatia, and then by coordinating monetary and fiscal policy in the Republic of Croatia, you stressed that the main objective is to open and enable investment and investment. So since the result of the investment in Croatia in 2012 is 50% lower than in 2011, how do you explain this coordination and this monetary policy that has brought 50% lower results compared to the previous year, in investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30655	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30656	Dear colleague, for 20 years, the Croatian state actually doesn't have a real strategy of access to investments both domestic and foreign, I take it as an equal denominator. And only by the arrival of this Government is the Law on Strategic Investments, by returning to office, by setting up the Investment Agency and the competitiveness which you similarly called abolished in 2010, or by opening up a space with financial stability in the Republic of Croatia, with fiscal consolidation, with confidence from foreign investors, with the rapid entry into the European Union now opening up space together with the Strategic Investments Act, which will come before this High House very soon, for foreign investors to come to Croatia and to start the investment cycle. And what is crucial and basic, to provide domestic investors with not bureaucratic barriers, not just artificial investments that have been made so far and to transfer funds to the left and right pockets, to really make the real sector work and that this country has confidence, that foreign and domestic investors have confidence in the Croatian state. Then we will not only talk about the slow or small growth of investment, then we will really be part of the European Union, a stable, competitive and entrepreneurially sought-after country. That's the goal of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30657	We will now hear the last replica of counterpart Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30658	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, here you are and finished calling for trust in foreign investors. The problem of the government's economic policy is that it may trust foreign investors, but foreign investors do not trust the government's policy. You talked about the need to increase international competitiveness and be attractive to investors. So how to be attractive to investors when you brought Croatia into the stock market in the last 14 months by economic policy. The Croatian National Bank is responsible as the central bank of the Republic of Croatia for maintaining price stability in the Republic of Croatia and that is correct and that is its basic task. However, with such a galloping price rise as is the current Croatian government and the Croatian National Bank, it will be increasingly difficult to maintain this stability. You were also talking about the profitability of the system as seen here in this Report how stable the system is. Yeah. Who's stable? It is stable that the profits of banks are present at all times somewhat less, but are still present, and these same banks are not owned by the Republic of Croatia but are owned by foreigners. So it is not the task of the CNB or the government's economic policy to protect the profits of foreigners, but to enable the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to live better. The economic policy of Ivo Sanader and those of the last government has brought Croatia into a banana. But the economic policy of this government has brought Croatian citizens now into a box full of bananas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30659	And the last answer to Srdjan Gjurkovic's last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30660	Dear colleague, if you take a closer look at the reports from the Croatian National Bank bulletin, then you will see clearly that as far as inflation is concerned and as far as the Government of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it has had its highest level of inflation. Thus, this government obviously knows how to control inflation. As for the garbage ratings, I've never heard of interest. As far as I know, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has written off outstanding quality and I say why? Because these funds are intended for an economy of about 250m euros from the European Investment Bank, funds according to one and a half percent interest entrepreneurship. Therefore, this government independently of rating agencies has a rating in international financial institutions, which I think is much more important. If I'm not mistaken, a large number of investors have come to Croatia and not those investors who only trade, but investors behind whom the governments stand which European countries are neighbouring. It is a message that we are welcome and preparing the ground for that investment cycle of course that we all want and we all expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30661	We're continuing the club debate. The HDSSB's stances will be presented by respected MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the irreplaceable Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank, longtime, colleagues and fellow MPs. Half-yearly information, therefore only information, and not a report, is actually one of the things that Croatia would say to representatives of the Croatian Parliament about the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy actually mirrored the relations of the Croatian National Bank towards the Croatian people and towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, ordinary information, not the report that we said today, we'd be discussing a little dry, a little bit for citizens who might be watching this transmission boringly, and it's a very serious thing. Namely, this report, excuse this information on monetary policy and to say the work of the Croatian National Bank for the first 6 months of last year. Shouldn't we be getting this information in September last year mainly because of the alarming information here. Let me say something about that data. In 2011, GDP fell, so at the time of that, I don't intend to defend anyone here, so at least HDZ was, so in the first three months of 2011. 1.2%. In 2012, in the same period, 1.3%. April, 2011 was a GDP increase of 0.6%. At the same time in 2012, a 2.2% GDP decline took place with 280,000 unemployed at the end of June 2011, and 302000 unemployed at the end of June 2012. So, 22,000 unemployed people more than a year ago. We're discussing this report halfway through February instead of September, not the report again, but the information. In this information, there is really not a single word which is why this is what I was talking about, so the GDP decline, the increase in the number of unemployed why it is so and because it is a cure for the Croatian National Bank, that is, monetary policy in cooperation or coordination, as said by this previous speaker, can do to cure patients in some way, in order to correct this situation with the decline of the gross social product and the permanent, unfortunately increase in the number of unemployed. The CNB is not interested in all and all poverty of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They actually counted here in this information and delivered it to us here to look at it like this I would say exclusively professionally on the professional economic and finance side. The CNB is not interested in the unemployment rate, nor is it interested in the fate of the Croatian and Croatian peoples. It is a completely alienated, all-renowned institution of all flows I would say life in the Republic of Croatia. In this information, therefore, which we received on the benches, on the management of international foreign exchange reserves amounting to 12.5 billion euros, why is there no final content? Only on pages 43 to 45 has 11 titles and subtitles and charts in which there is actually no content. There is no content about where our international foreign reserve, Croatia, is of 12.5 billion euros, what is the effect of these foreign reserves in Croatia, and is there anything I can say to make a profit out of it? Let me put it this way in plain language because I'm a doctor, but I can cut, I'm a professional surgeon. No, that's not what we're talking about. I think it's one of the most important elements of this information. Why isn't there a single word here about a credit clause that tortures our citizens? So we know that the Association "Franak" is also established and leads the fight through all possible media and in all possible ways to really correct the injustice against Croatian citizens. The CNB doesn't care at all, that information does not provide any information. And when we talk about currency stability it's interesting that, once there's a parliamentary representative of the former, I think Goran Maric said that the power of the currency stems from the power of the economy. It's interesting that this economy, not to say on its knees, has a strong and stable currency. So how is that possible? Why don't you explain to us the laymen for economics and fiscal affairs how it's possible that the worst economy like this I'd say almost in Europe has the most stable and solid currency – kuna? Or do something else. This means, in other words, that inflation data in Croatia are incorrect and hairstyled. What it says here is 4%, the other day Mr. Maras the minister used one adjective that could be good here, and he said that this inflation should be between 5, to assume it's between 5 and 10% if not more. So don't get your eyes dirty when we all know you're going shopping and you know what the price is. Why do we lie about inflation being 4% when it's not? And finally, if it is 4% then it bounces away from what the Central European Bank of CEB so-called that it's a 2% limit to say normally when a red light is on in the country. Why isn't there a word in this information about profits or the costs of the CNB? Why isn't there a single word about the cost of representation, sauna, tennis, recreation of 40 million kuna for last year's CNB employees? So they spent on such things 40 million kunas. Do you know how an unwanted child who leaves his parents ends up? He ends up in an orphanage. And who should take care of the Croatian state, Croatian people and Croatian citizens? Father and mother should be concerned. The father of the creator of fiscal policy Linic and the mother of the governor of the CNB. Well, that's today, and there's a need to say, I don't want to say if it's a little bit unnatural under our family law, but that father Linic hit taxes on the people, the crowds, and the governor left us to do business with commercial banks. What is this fate of ours? Are we actually as citizens and as a Croatian state orphans in the wind of foreign banks, world corporations and foreign capital? We did. You confirm it's different, and it's not. Some say monetary policy, that's a statement, that monetary policy is being led at the bars of Irish pubs. It is sometimes carried on the bows of yachts of certain tycoons. Some may be taking place on a holiday in Turkey, and is monetary policy being run here? In the Croatian state, in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian government? Whom does this favor with the exchange rate policy of a stable and secure Croatian currency? Well, of course, the tycoon importers. Who else is comfortable with it? It's all clear from what I just said. Well, we wouldn't even be negotiating monetary policy elsewhere if that weren't the case. And now, in this debate, suddenly some people here, even the former IDS worries about the profits of Croatian banks that have fallen 15% compared to last year. That's terrible! And it is exported from Croatia 8 billion euros a year. And now we're very worried about what's going to happen with getting the banks. Croatian banks.", they act alone in Croatia, but they are foreign and that capital goes beyond Croatia. And we are actually funding the recovery of the economy and monetary policies of other countries with money leaving Croatia, while Croatia will be a sheep for the haircut through part of the Croatian National Bank's failure and those responsible in the Croatian National Bank. The external debt that has increased, regardless of the credit claim, according to the vice governor, from 45.7, foreign debt from 45.7 billion to 46.6 billion euros. I thought, well, we all thought together when that information was told to us in public, then we're all desperate. If only a little bit of that debt had been stopped and reduced I believe that we would have had all the counter-reaction, one good filling, one good feeling that there was beginning to decrease that foreign debt. Unfortunately, the coordination Mr Gjurkovic spoke of did not lead to that neither did it. Here we are today discussing monetary policy about money, about banks, about commercial banks today on this snow stands Vesna Balenović in front of the INA, protesting for the great money that has been robbed, but this is not the topic of today's debate, although it is also about the big, big money that has been embezzled, which ended in criminally, corruption, etc. On inflation again, inflation can be targeted, it can be said, if it is then or, or, or, if it is, a devaluation, then a bit of inflation is withdrawn behind it. It can be aimed at development and exports, but when this is how we have one inflation that is uncontrollable then it is the consequence of what the Croatian National Bank is doing, and that is the advantage of the import lobby. Therefore, this report is difficult to accept. This is not even a report but information, in fact we shouldn't even be showing ourselves about it, because this is what we are information that happened during the January-June 2012 period. And another thing, when we're talking about banks, commercial banks, 37 of them, how there's such an interest, the interest of world banking clubs to buy the Croatian Post Bank if we're in such a threatened and poor state and their profits are reduced, etc. So it's a paradox that's funny, it's funny to talk about. And you declared the Croatian postal bank yourself a gold coke that you would first sell together with Croatia insurance which is the same in a certain sense as a financial institution, and the bitch is that there's a bank that will leave us, so what banks would do in Hungary when Orban gave them profit tax and didn't leave Hungary, don't worry, they didn't leave Hungary were foreign banks, and today they're doing business in Hungary, but Orban knows what he's doing, and this government doesn't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30663	We have five replicas reported to this exhibit. First respected colleague Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30664	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleagues Grubisic asked two rhetorical, of course, populist questions. First of all, anything is served by foreign exchange reserves? If not the services, if they are not put into the function of reviving the Croatian economy, buying some shares, projects that Croatia could launch, then they serve what Croatian money has already served to resuscitate banks. So the poor banks are already slowly in trouble, they'll probably need to be remedied, and who's going to do it to preserve the safety of the Croatian banking system? Well, of course we will. The second rhetorical question is once again populist, what is a stable currency for? A stable currency serves to make banks and importers big profits and to destroy Croatian industry and agriculture. And it's already done neatly. The currency clause in this system serves so that citizens don't come up with the idea that such a system of currency parity doesn't make sense for Croatia, because everyone will think, so damn it if that euro goes to 9, 10 which is his real value where I'm going to meet with my loan. For this policy, the best governor in the world has won the prize, has been named the best governor. He received a reward from those he worked for and for whom he works again today, a man works for those whose politics he promoted and who he did a favor and benefits. He's not our best governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30665	The replica corresponds to the esteemed colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30666	Well, my colleague Vuljanic doesn't insult me with this adjective, so I guess we're popular, so that's how the other adjectives are populist. As for all these findings and foreign reserves and its foreign reserve role, then on a stable currency which is actually an instrument of importers and import lobby and then on a foreign exchange clause that the Croatian National Bank has not said a single word in this information. We have an entirely identical opinion so they call us populists or don't call us important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30667	Second replica, respected colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30668	Dear colleague Grubisic, we are proud of someone else, and we are ashamed of our own. What you said is we're in charge of populism, not you, don't take over our area. You said in your statement that Linic left us with taxes, the CNB to foreign commercial banks. It is true but beware that the most important stability of banks in Croatia has been rooted, found fertile soil, and you all see how stable our banks are again. The banks are stable, citizens have fallen into debt slavery, 120,000 families are threatened by the foreign exchange clause, more and more every day people are forced out of their apartments because they can't pay their loans. You pay off the loan, you pay off seven years or ten years. You're more in debt now than you were ten years ago and we're proud of that banking policy. The Croatian Bank points out that it is the only model that is a good and correct model. I have previously cited in my debate an example of Iceland, which the whole of Europe is silent about. You won't find one letter anywhere in Iceland, who said what if the banks fail. No, the most important thing for us is to make as much profit as possible to serve these banks as possible in order to serve Brussels and all those who make big profits from Croatia. Of course, this is not the fault of the Croatian National Bank, but rather the Government of the Assembly who won't even open the debate in the Croatian Assembly on the foreign exchange clause, which, in what way, they say if we abolished the foreign exchange clause, everything would collapse. Normally, if we did everything at the same time, but there is a way and measure to restore the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30669	The replica corresponds to the esteemed colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30670	I see that you have closely followed my presentation in which I stressed that the CNB and monetary policy and fiscal policy of the government of the Republic of Croatia are not interested in all the poverty and almost unrecorded unemployment in the history of Croatia. This kind of poverty and this kind of unemployment rate is not a percentage while Croats have known about themselves since the century 7. I'd say so. So what you said was a hundred times a lie becomes true, we know where it comes from, I don't want to have a Duje Marasovic problem, but we're closer to Iceland examples of how the exchange clause can be solved, such as. The National Bank of Serbia handled it, right next door, so let it apply to us, even though I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30671	Next replica, Honored Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30672	Thank you, dear colleague Grubisic. During the debate, you pointed out at one point how we are in the hands of the tycoon. True, we are in the hands of many different world tycoons, and even these domestic tycoons do not sleep peacefully because they are in good hands of these world tycoons. The fact is that today 90% of the world's population is in debt slavery, and it's only 10% of those who are believers, and that's why today we have more than 3.5 billion people who are undernourished and another billion who live in agony without food and water. Croatia is unfortunately no better in this regard, and that is the contemporary neoliberalism that is implemented by our current Croatian government and leads to such a devastating picture. When we talk about Croatian debt, then it should be stressed that it is not a problem, it is not the biggest problem, it is a huge problem, but it is not the biggest problem I am in debt. The biggest problem with us is that we don't even know when we're gonna get that debt back from what. The debt was eventually created when the Croatian state was created it amounted to less than $4 billion. It's over $100 billion today. Therefore, it is a manifestation of one nation's behaviour, the behaviour of a society but most importantly, the debt that has grown 25 times is the result of the state's behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30673	Next replica, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30674	My colleague Grubisic, says a famous Croatian poet, says, "Dear God, where I am gone," and also in Croatian literature there is one from the carpenters and the devil, the time comes, the time is up, here is the hell jump to jump. And apparently that devil came to us. Not here in the Parliament, but in everything, including the Parliament and all Croatian homes, in all Croatian families. Or this report says that we have almost 400 thousand unemployed, that we have a daily decline in industrial production, a daily gross national income, a day-to-day decline as if this government continues with that Sanader route we move on. I remember four years ago I said if we keep going we'll turn back to the break-in but apparently Croatia is now at the bottom of the break-in and still digging a tunnel to obviously reach China. We owe 50 billion euros today. Even those dollars that Buric has now mentioned have been replaced with Euros, because that $100 billion sounds too much, 50 billion is still less than 100. Just remember those Latin American countries, the other day I watched on TV as Chile came out of that crisis when it fell to the bottom of that break-in and today there's an economy moving forward, we can even learn from the Latin American countries that touched that bottom. Well, we're not obviously learning from ourselves, and every government that comes here says we're the smartest. The future begins with us. [[attack: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30675	Reply to the replica of counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30676	Thank you very much. If you look at any program of our TV or commercial TV, then you will see only by advertising what is happening in this world and how that liberal would say Croatian hohstapplers what they are doing in this world and what they are doing from Croatia. You said we'd get to China if we kept going like this. No, no China will come to us in that's the problem. It's not a problem for us to get to China. And as for Croatia's debt, it was 10 billion dollars at the beginning of the late Ivica Racan rule in late '99. Since then, up to 50 billion euros in these 13 years have been owed by these governments to 40 billion euros. What was made of it, what was made of Croatia? How do we live with a 40 billion-euro debt, a new debt? And we had a war in the 1990s, and despite all the destruction, the war, we were only in debt in 2000, 10 billion dollars, and now we're almost 50 billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30677	The last replica of the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30678	I do not want to be a bank lawyer, but I must tell you that you are wrong to say when you say that banks from Croatia amount to 8 billion kuna abroad annually. I ask you or the euro anyway, how can 8 billion euros be made when it is banked for the first half of 2012. 1.8 billion kuna, and the 2012 data, of course, we still don't know. So the truth is, because of high liquidity, the next banks return unsaid, unused funds to those abroad that they borrowed them from. So, among other things, they return them because the price of that borrowed capital is unfortunately increasing. Banks therefore do not amount to 8 billion euros in profits or what you already thought they are simply due.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30679	We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30680	Thank you very much, Vice President. We don't have a Vice Governor. We don't have a colleague or a colleague. For the sake of the context of further debate at the beginning, I will present some basic macroeconomic indicators for 2012. So what is absolutely most important is that in 2012 the 4th year in a row is characteristic of the economic downturn. In those 4 years, the cumulative decline in the Croatian economy is more than 10%, industrial production such as that of the most job-making industry and which produces the most goods for export, it dropped almost 30%. At the same time, construction fell 60%, and it's not just worrying about data, it's dangerous data, simply because it says it doesn't have or still doesn't have investments even on a daily basis, let alone those big capital ones. The cumulative consequence of these negative movements is the escalating unemployment. Over 140,000 jobs have been lost in 4 years. The standard of living for Croatian citizens has collapsed more than 20%. In the first half of 2012, the unemployment rate was 15.5%, and when it talks about this unemployment, the Croatian National Bank, in its report, is firstly apostropheisting one very depressed, I will say a very worrying data, which is that youth unemployment is even higher than 15.5%, so the unemployment rate of young generations is higher than in Greece or Spain, or third, respectively. The light point in this poor macroeconomic picture is the positive results in fiscal consolidation or the reduction of government budget deficits and, of course, in increased financial discipline. The question is, how did banks operate in this economic environment that I described? In 2009, therefore, at the peak of the crisis when the economy fell to a high 6% net profit of the banks amounted to 3.5 billion kuna, in 2010, the economy fell further 1.2%, the net profit of the banks increased to 4.3 billion kuna, while in 2011, which was, for the economy, a year of stagnation, the net profit of the banks increased to a further 10% and was almost 5 billion kuna, or to be quite precise 4.7 billion. So in the period of crisis and economic downturn, the banks earned over 15 billion kunas of net profit and the banking industry, according to this data, is actually the most profitable activity in Croatia, the crisis is not affected at all, it is not affected. The peak of banking predatory irony is the message that the bank in Croatia does not quite realise high profitability rates, that in other countries they achieve more profitability rates. Yes, but in countries where the economy also records growth rates, it is logical and acceptable for banks to earn more. And the fact is that the crisis has damaged the banking sector in a large number of SEE countries, so in Hungary, Slovenia, Serbia, BiH, Macedonia, except Croatia. In these countries banks are very often and have many losses, and in Croatia they earn profits. The most absurd thing is that banks earn money from Croatian savings and Croatian businessmen here and there. In fact, the sources of majority foreign owners account for less than 20% of total banking resources. On the other hand, despite the fact that citizens' savings growth has slowed significantly in recent years, and company deposits have even been reduced, over 14%, population deposits remain the most stable source of financing for business banks. However, in 2012, the bad economic situation begins to spread to banks as well. The net profit generated in the first half of 2012, as I have already said, is 1.8 billion kuna which is a significantly weaker result than in the 2011 parallel period. I don't want to be in any way deluded, but the rule is that there are no good banks without a good economy or a good economy without good banks. Although banks in Croatia are highly capitalised, the so-called "major" headaches give them. Bad credits and they are already 14%. In companies, banks cannot charge almost a quarter of the loans paid by building a share of unpaid loans reached almost 40%, i.e. to be quite precise 38%. What construction companies are in the economy, in the population, therefore, they are debtors in Swiss who are really struggling with the return or repayment of loans. Residential loans in Swiss are the most ferocious example of the full absence of the will of the banks to share the risk with citizens. It is inadmissible, in my view, that long-term loans intended to solve a housing problem, which is young people, should actually be the principle of some state-run housing policy, therefore they are approved under such risk conditions, under such conditions short-term credits, such as for consumer goods such as cars or furniture, but cannot be granted long-term loans for apartments. Citizens therefore absorb from new credit borrowings, barely repay those old debts, and so there are fewer companies that can even get credit, and all of this has to do with just worrying about the loan stalemate. That is why I will repeat what I have already said in the replica of my colleague Grubisic, so the banks remain unsaid money and it is conditional, which is a little absurd, an even higher liquidity of banks, so the banks are returning capital to abroad, one word is due to the loaned capital. So banks are increasingly facing the problem of non-payment loans and, consequently, with high booking costs, they are facing a lack of credit growth, they are facing high borrowing costs for mothers' banks. And we've actually heard that today in different ways. It is increasingly clear that the core business of the CNB, which is keeping the prices under control and maintaining the high liquidity of banks, is unfortunately becoming its sole goal, and this must not be. Which means the banks have money, which means the CNB has high reserves when businesses and craftsmen fail daily, when the army of the unemployed and unfortunately the army of the poor increases. The CNB is expected to support more actively the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia because it has instruments, and banks are expected to participate more in risks, in granting loans at lower interest, in approximately the way they are assigned in the countries of origin. Otherwise, in Croatia, they won't simply have someone to place their capital on, so the colonel won't have anyone to write to, simply the banks won't have any business.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30681	It doesn't say Colonel, it's written to him, but we're going to have five replicas on this exhibit of yours. First, honourable representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30682	Dear colleagues. Yes, the colonels' banks, and the deceased's citizens. As for your presentation, you've only noticed this in the end, so I'm surprised that the first part that was, again, is some kind of commendation. You said yourself it's strange that foreign exchange reserves have such and so many 12.5 billion euros, that we have the bank's profits however you judge it they are in profit, and that citizenship, the real sector to say Greek in a situation where, in poverty, in the impossible to get favourable loans, in losses etc. That's what you said. After all, you're talking about young people, so here's a chance to be in agreement with me right now, so let's just run a different policy with monetary and fiscal than it has been so far and it doesn't show results. You know your Deputy Prime Minister said he was going to start investments in a year. It has been 14 months, investments dropped 50% compared to those of HDZ investments when they were in power for the last year. What are we talking about? Is that how you remember these things, I don't know. So let me tell you something else, it's not 8.5 billion euros the banks did not export from Croatia, but rather the total amount exported from Croatia through banks, insurance companies of foreign, commercial chains, etc. 250 billion kuna in 10 years, 250 billion kuna or 32 billion euros. There is so that it is almost an entire yet little gross social product of Croatia a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30683	The replica matches the esteemed colleague Nadia Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30684	Comrade Grubishic, you didn't understand me. In fact, I said that the Croatian National Bank would have to participate in its instruments too, and especially in business banks, given the profits they make in Croatia, they would have to be much more involved in the risk of granting loans to citizens. And as far as investment is concerned, they will be, and this government is seriously working on it. They are certainly a condition of economic recovery. What you're saying is we have less investment than the HDZ government. Now, I'm going to tell you that in the period 2004 to 2007, the HDZ government then achieved high growth rates among the highest in transition countries thanks to what kind of base the previous government had left.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30685	Next replica, respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30686	Thank you. Well, a man must laugh at this last sentence, but good. So, esteemed colleagues here, I'll remind you again of the unfortunate 21-economic platform. The coalition comes from the the thesis that the crisis of the Croatian economy is not only the result of the global financial crisis and recession, but that its roots in the poor conduct of Croatian economic policy and the economic model based on neoliberalism. The Prime Minister has said yes several times himself here in the Croatian Parliament. We are no longer running a social democratic but neoliberal policy. You talked about the fall of 30% of industrial production, that 60% of the decline in construction is a major danger to Croatian society. Well, that's true. But who brought 60% down in construction? So in the last 14 months this government of the Republic of Croatia, this government has put a noose around its neck. The harbinger of this government's policies has also brought industrial, but especially the construction industry into the situation in which it is today. You said the last four years lost 140,000 jobs. Yes, but in the last 12 months, out of these 140000 60000 lost jobs, the current government of the Republic of Croatia has lost its jobs. What's in 4 years total lost jobs half of you managed to do in a year. And it's true, more than 37% of young people today are unemployed and without a prospect of getting a job. Therefore, when we speak to the Croatian National Bank, it is not expected to support only the banking system and profit banks that are not owned by us, but that affect the launch of economic activity in Croatia. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30687	The replica matches the esteemed colleague Nadia Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30688	Comrade Buric, you honor our neoliberal policy. The fact is that this government is saving the economy, doing its best to ensure better conditions for the functioning of economic operators and thus reducing the labour price to increase competitiveness to the Croatian economy. That's why we cut that contribution to health insurance from 14% to 12%, and we're going to cut it further. So everything to increase the competitiveness of the economy and you call it neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30689	Next replica, respected counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30690	Dear colleagues, here's what you mentioned. You've brought up a series of data. I must say that this government was not chosen among other things to deal with the past and to ask for how many were unemployed by 2012, but rather to reduce the number of unemployed. And the fact is that today we have almost 400,000 unemployed and that other than those two percent reduction in health contributions or that this government has done nothing else. The German government, the German Chancellor, and this Prime Minister was visiting Germany could learn. If once the economy wants to start, then the value added tax is reduced, it is not increasing. After all, if you have read on this basis, Plan 21 has given you a number of votes and received a majority in this House. It did not say that VAT would increase rather than decrease. And it's not a policy hack, it's a harbinger over the locks. So remember yourself in the last term how individuals yelled when Shuker introduced from 22% to 23%. It was a tsunami, and now this is a disaster. We were in a banana at the time. Many warned that we were in a banana. Says Buric we're in a banana crate now. Not even in the crate. We're on a banana plantation. We're monkeys watching you lead us to ruin! All Croatian citizens have expected this government, and we also have representatives to get us out of this crisis, and you are leading us into an even bigger and bigger crisis. And this government grabs hold of that straw of salvation, and together with that straw, we'll all sink together if something radical doesn't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30691	Time's up. This replica corresponds to a esteemed colleague named Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30692	We have to talk to our colleague Vinkovic, unfortunately, about the past, because the past is not used to restructure the economy. We have a poor structure of the economy and it is mostly the culprit for this number of unemployed workers. So the past was not exploited when there were better conditions for borrowing, when there was much more and more affordable and cheaper capital. So nothing seemed to change the economic structure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30693	Next replica, respected counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30694	The esteemed colleagues of the CNB said you recorded that youth unemployment is alarming. Looks like the CNB as well as the government has become a witness. All in Croatia, all movements and the decline of GDP, then unemployment, the economic collapse is treated with us as an elemental accident. And if it were an elemental accident, that no one was to blame, that it itself happened to an elemental disaster to be solved. However, there is no explanation of who will solve this elemental disaster. You said before in your debate that banks do not want to share risks with citizens, everything is transferred, I agree with you, on the back of the citizens of the foreign exchange clause. And why don't the banks want to share the risk with the citizens? Well, because they make it possible for them to do so. Because it allows them to rule, both her ex and this one today. The government didn't even want to talk in this House about the gradual abolition of the foreign exchange clause, and now this government would only blame banks or the CNB. No, it's joint work, it's synergy against the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30695	My colleague Jelash estimates that this replica does not need an answer, so we will hear the last replica of the respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30696	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues so I'll say that you've brought out your debate very nicely, it's really well prepared and it's perfectly complex when it's brought out by someone from the opposition ranks. All you've stated is true, it's all a finding but in that part you've forgotten that you're part of the majority that's been given the trust of citizens to offer solutions and to make ways out of a particular crisis, how to do something. And the fact is, it's already been said here on several occasions that, and you said that banks are left unscathed with money. It is precisely the government's role to prepare the conditions for money to be placed, that businesses and citizens can use as cheap money as possible and intervene by the government when it is necessary to help citizens and help businesses. This really gives the impression that the ruling majority in Croatia only finds that the number of unemployed has increased, that so many companies have failed, that so many jobs will disappear, that agricultural producers will become social. It's not the ruling majority's job, the ruling majority's job is reverse, the ruling majority's job is to give solutions. It's our job to discuss it this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30697	We will now hear the final word of Deputy Governor of the CNB Mr. Relja Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30698	At the very beginning, I assumed some of the remarks that you would make to monetary policy and the CNB, which is why I was in advance and practically responded to a lot of what you said. I will not repeat now that I really believe that the character, the main feature of monetary policy, is the incentive, that it is a policy that leads to the high liquidity of the system, that it is trying to incentivise banks in such a way to borrow. But I also said that the problem of low credit growth and low investment, actually falling investment, is something that is very complex and that cannot be solved only by monetary policy. I'm a weak polymist, and I don't think it's the right thing to do with you, and that's why I won't go in line and speak against the arguments of many of your findings as I know it, and I'd say inaccuracy, like that HPB has a great interest in them, Iceland. In Iceland, 40% of Iceland's GDP went into bank recovery. Foreign reserves have already been put into operation because behind each euro of the purchased foreign exchange reserve there are kunas in the circulation that are in place. So, I don't want to get my exposure now to cause a new amount of replicas and now in some way talk through replicas about very serious things. I will therefore just briefly look back on what Mrs. Dalic, who was also supported by a lot of other representatives in their discussions, and that would really be a lot less so, I would say misunderstandings and a false understanding of monetary policy if she had greater transparency of the work of the CNB. And it's really something that we have to try to do as hard as possible and increase that transparency. And that's why I'd say this two times a year report, the annual report that's going to be all that the MP asked to be about foreign reserves, about the financial plan, etc., etc. So these two documents are certainly not enough and they are necessary because of the work technology of the Parliament. Most of the time, they're not actual anymore. I used to be there when the Annual Report of one year was debated not in the next, but in the one that followed. So these really aren't actual materials. However, there are a whole range of other reports, information, regular, monthly, quarterly works by the Croatian National Bank on its website, you can see. They also exist twice a year. One material that is also published on the Internet, twice a year with a view ahead where we comment on how we see the future, what GDP in the next period we see moving and why we see it moving. So it's not true that we don't comment, that we don't propose and that we don't participate in policymaking. There's finally a series of public appearances, and there's a Dubrovnik conference that's probably why it's an account for the team, because there's a book that's so high. There are other ways in which we communicate, but really here I accept criticism, there is still work to do, work more and work on the quality of information and materials that we produce to explain our positions as much as possible. Because simply some things have to be clear, about the course, for example, about the course, it's very, in a way, perhaps for many of us to intervene quite rarely, and when we intervene, we intervene on both sides and on the other side just to prevent strong oscillations. We can't go against the fundamentals for 10, 15 years, against the markets. We can't have an unreal course, overestimated course and 10, 15 years of constant growth in foreign exchange reserves. So the problems are far, far wider, more complex, I wouldn't open that debate here. I thank you for your suggestions, some of these suggestions will indeed be accepted, especially in the quality of information. And the same thing I did last time and what was heard here to a certain extent, and that's the question of bank relations to clients. You know we've been working lately and we're going to work and the Credit Institutions Act, the new one that's about to come into the process, and there's going to be a chance that we can make every contribution to make it better. We are working to protect the client as much as possible, to protect the consumer of bank credits, bank services and banks, why are we, after all, so much as taking care of foreign-owned banks? The CNB is concerned about the stability of the banking system because it is a prerequisite for stability, for stability of the economy, is not the other way around, but in this direction eat and in the bank's end line are foreign, but our savings are in those banks. And the boundaries are open, capital flows are completely liberalized, anyone can legally and legitimately keep money wherever they want, and we can all make 6.3% return on capital very high. There are many countries that have higher, money will go there. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30699	On this final word we have reported three replicas. First honorary colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30700	Thank you. Dear Mr Vice Governor, you have therefore stressed in your final speech that the task of the Croatian National Bank is to ensure the stability of the banking system and that is correct, but it is also true that the primary objective of the CNB is to maintain price stability. However, without jeopardising this basic goal, the Croatian National Bank is tasked with supporting the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. And here we have since last month's announcement, 6 leading economic experts from the largest Croatian banks, as expected to decrease GDP on average 0.2% regardless of who gave plus or minus. And now if we take this gross domestic product as a sum of personal consumption, state consumption, investment and the difference between imports and exports, then we see that all these factors affecting GDP in Croatia are falling. Both personal and state consumption, investment and that the difference between exports and imports is increasingly negative. And everything in Croatia that affects GDP falls, only stays or even grows, profits from banks. Thus, the most important role of the Croatian National Bank is lost, and this is a positive impact on supporting the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. You only take care of the one part, which is to preserve the stability of the banking system, and what is most important is to contribute to your policy, by your action to contribute to the positive economic policy shifts of the Republic of Croatia, it is not important to you. And right then it's said, unfortunately you're not just a registerer, there's both occasional interventions and open ones, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30701	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30702	However, the basics of the task are not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30703	Thank you. Second replica, Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30704	Yes, the vice governor said the banks are foreign, but they operate in Croatia, but I add businesses according to Croatian laws. The governor says and the savings are ours, so we're talking about Croatian institutions and we need to keep that in mind. I can blame the Croatian National Bank for not correcting the inflation course since 2000, but what would happen today? One euro would be 14 kuna, our exports would be bigger, our industry would be more powerful, our tourism might be stronger, we might have a job more, the standard of citizens might be incomparably smaller, but we can't touch the kuna today, we can't unilaterally devalue that kuna today. We have to defend her or keep her safe. That's not what I said as a pupil of my own eye. They're all over-indebted. Who would profit? You'd profile a small number of people, citizens would have to pay loans, huge companies wouldn't be able to pay loans, importers wouldn't profit either, in one word, no one would profit under these circumstances. So we are not allowed to rejoice today in 2013 because of the mare of anyone, because of the bad mare of no one in particular Croatian banks that are owned by foreign banks but, as the governor says, they market our money. They've been rescheduled with tens of billions of kunas, sold for $5.6 billion, interest is high. This should be affected, interest must be lower and in some ways should be appealed because otherwise, if that interest is not corrected and the banks will be worse off than it is today. But if there's something in the country that needs to be cared for today as well as the end, that doesn't happen to us at the end of the '90s, it's unfortunately the banks that are notes that are actually owned but that keep our money and the state is responsible for the deposits of its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30705	He's not the governor, he's the deputy governor. And now we will hear the last line, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30706	I thank Mr. Deputy Governor, you said that you would not pollute with us and open any more important issues through replicas but still because of the Croatian public I think it would be good to hear your opinion, your position on the announced sale of the only one I would say more significant state banks, namely the sale of the Croatian Post Bank. The public knows that this bank is in 2012. In the year it increased its profits by 10% to 91 million kuna and also knows that the intention to sell the bank is therefore the Croatian Post Bank only to patch up the budget deficit this year. It would be good to hear the word of Croatian National Bank experts about such a way of managing Croatian property, but it would also be important to hear whether the CNB could have predicted the bankruptcy of Kredo Bank when working with the audit of Croatian banks and so could the Kredo Bank, because it could have prevented certain measures. So there is certainly a lot of answers to which there should be a clear, many questions to which clear answers should be given for transparency and I think it is good that you said that the Croatian National Bank will continue to open very transparently in fact all those measures that are in its jurisdiction to explain to the public, but I think it should simply explain them in time. So the moment the finance minister explained that prices would not rise because VAT would rise from 23% to 25%. It should have been said very clearly, prices will rise and you will have an impact on both consumption and the standard of Croatian citizens and will ultimately lead to a further decline in GDP. So it should have been very clear at that time not later today by reading in the report such information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30707	If you respond there to the replica Relja Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30708	... It was actually a few questions, I said I wouldn't want to pollemise, it's just not appropriate for you and as far as these specific issues are concerned, and as far as this VAT is concerned, we immediately calculated the exact effect that is very easy to calculate the impact of the VAT increase by two points on the price index. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] That's what we've calculated, and we've published it. The postal bank has the owner, HMB didn't find it to tell the owners whether to sell or not to sell. Any owner can sell to someone. We estimate whether this new customer is what you say fitting proper or whether it meets all the conditions to own, or whether it is capital enough to track one such bank. So I wouldn't comment on that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30709	I thank Deputy Governor Relja Martic and conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30710	We are going to vote on the working points of the agenda. Half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and monetary policy numbers. The debate on information is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the next conclusion as a home working body. It takes note of half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. I'd like to make our point on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the conclusion was accepted by the majority of the vote 107 for and 10 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30711	We're going back to work. The clubs agreed to conduct a united debate on the next two points of the agenda, points 2 and 3 in our consolidated order. - Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2012 and the report on audits carried out - Report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government for 2011. This report shall be submitted by the State Office for the Audit of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 15. Law on the State Audit Office and pursuant to Article 9 The law on the State Audit Office and Article 32 The Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. One report was published on the official website of the Croatian Parliament, and one copy was delivered to representatives' clubs and the other one was received in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Defence Committee, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. I'm asking if the representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Chief Auditor-General Mr Ivan Klesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30712	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. As you know by the Law on the State Audit Office, the main state auditor reports once a year the Croatian Parliament on the work of the office. The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2012 and all reports on the audit of the entities that we have covered during this reporting period has been submitted to this House. After delivery to the Croatian Assembly, the reports are published on our websites and thus become available to the general public, thus fulfilling one of the important tasks of the State Audit, which is strengthening awareness, and increasing accountability and transparency in spending public funds. The audits were carried out according to the annual programme and the work plan of the State Audit Office, which determines the entities of the audit. The 2012 work programme and the Work Plan cover all entities for which the provisions of the Law on the State Office for Audit and the Law on the financing of political activities of the electoral promotion are prescribed for the annual audit obligation. What I would like to point out in particular is that the planning of the audit of other entities, therefore, for those who do not have a legal obligation to carry out the audit once a year, is based on the criteria set out in the State Audit Office Act, which are the first risk assessment, then the financial significance, the result of the previous audit, and the collection of information on the business of entities. During this reporting period, the office carried out 447 financial audits covering 141 billion kuna of public funds, 101 entities or 22.6% received unconditional opinion, 345 entities or 77.2% conditional opinion, and 1 entity received an unfavourable opinion. For identified irregularities, 2 thousand 334 orders and recommendations were given, and since we follow orders and recommendations given in the previous audit, we found that out of the 1653 orders and recommendations given in the previous audit, 43% were processed in the implementation process 13%, and 39% of the tasks given by the state auditors and recommendations were not implemented at all. On the annual report on the implementation of the 2011 State budget, the conditional opinion expressed, and in the financial reports and business of budgetary beneficiaries, 13 unconditional and 12 conditional opinions. The audit of the state budget and budget beneficiaries most frequently identified irregularities relate to planning, accounting operations, revenue-expenses, assets, public procurement, government debt guarantees and budget supplies. Furthermore, during this reporting period, an audit has been carried out in 3 out-of- budget users of the state budget, i.e. the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, then the Croatian Roads and Croatian Waters. Their financial reports and business reports have been given conditional opinions, which have been affected by irregularities and failures which are partly due to insufficiently effective internal control systems, which we often stress that this must be added to great importance. A review has also been carried out in 135 local units. Their financial statements and business statements are expressed in 14 unconditional and 121 conditional opinions. Total revenues and receipts of revised local units amounted to 18.6 billion kuna. The audit also covers 74 users of the budget whose total revenues amounted to 1.4 billion kuna. They were users of the budget of local units, health homes, kindergartens, museums, galleries, theatre, schools, schools, public fire departments and libraries. Then the users of the state budget of the second level of organisational classification are centres for social care, homes for children and others. In addition to that, out-of- budget users we did one, they were also the County Road Administrations. These entities have 20 unconditional and 54 conditional opinions. In addition, we have audited 133 companies in which the Republic of Croatia or local units have majority ownership over shares and shares, of which 23 companies are in majority state ownership and 110 are owned by local units. 18 unconditional and 114 conditional and 1 unfavourable opinions are expressed on their financial reports and business. The audit also covers 131 non-profit organisations, i.e. 7 port administrations, 7 tourist communities, 7 sports associations, 6 fire-fighting communities and 4 non-profit organisations dealing with various activities. Two non-profit organisations carry out their activities at national level and 29 at local level. Financial reports and business of a non-profit organisation expressed 10 unconditional and 21 conditional opinions. Following these audits, the general conclusion that the largest number of irregularities has been identified in entities where no relevant set-up has been established in entities where an appropriate internal control system has not been established and the highest risk range of public procurement remains. During this reporting period, 6 EU-funded projects or projects financed by ISPA and PHARE and projects to develop a system of education and education financed by the World Bank's loans were also audited. Three unconditional and three conditional opinions are expressed. The conditional opinion was influenced by the failures related to the procurement procedure and delays in the implementation of the contract on the performance of works and the provision of services and the contract on the supply of equipment. Dear Mr Vice-President, esteemed MPs and MPs, also in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, the Office provided the Croatian Assembly with a report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of units of local, regional, regional self-government. The audit covers financial reports and business reports for 2011 for 25 political parties, 4 independent representatives and 10 independent members of local self-government units. The Law on the financing of political activity and election promotions provides for the rights and obligations of political parties in relation to the collection of funds from different sources, the issue of certificates of receipts of grants and memberships, the prohibitions of funding and concessions, the keeping of records, the public display of origin and the means of spending, the publication of financial reports and the obligation to pay in the state budget, donations from illicit sources and donations above the prescribed amounts. For the implementation of the review of the financial operations of political parties, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of local units under the provisions of the same law, the State Audit Office shall be responsible. As with all other audits, the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of local units has been carried out in the same manner and in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Law on the State Audit Office, the International Audit Standards of INTOSAI and the Code of Professional Ethics of State Auditors. The objectives of the audit were to verify the truthfulness and credibility of the financial reports, to verify the correctness of the acquisition of revenue, to verify the correctness of the execution of expenditure, or whether the financial resources were used exclusively to achieve the objectives set out in the programme and the Statute. In early 2012, growing political parties submitted financial reports in 2011. It is important here to stress that, according to the available data, 118 political parties acted in the Republic of Croatia, that the obligation to draw up and submit financial reports has only those parties that make annual revenues above the amount established for non-profit organisations, i.e. if their value is more than 100 thousand kunas in the previous three years at year level and annual income in the previous three years above 100 thousand kuna. So the report was delivered by 11 parliamentary parties, 25 extraparliamentary political parties, 4 independent representatives and 50 independent members of local units. I would like to stress here that the Croatian Labour Labour Party became a parliamentary party in 2010 on the basis of Mr Dragutin Lesar's parliamentary mandate, but was not financed from the state budget as other parliamentary parties whose members became representatives by establishing VI. Calls on the Croatian Parliament on the basis of the 2007 elections and we cited this party in terms of funding, I stress, as an extraparliamentary party. In short, I will provide some basic data on financial operations by reviewing the parties covered, independent representatives and independent members of local unit representative bodies for 2011. Incomes of 25 parties amounted to 140 million kuna, of which 50% refers to revenues from the state budget, 27% to revenues from the budget of local units, while donations, membership fees and other sources relate to 23% of total revenues. As for expenditure, the most money spent on material expenditures is 44% and for promotion 36%, the remaining 20% refers to expenditures on employees, donations and other expenditures. The less revenue over expenditure has been generated by 16 political parties totaling 25.6 million kuna, 9 parties have reached a surplus. The deficit is partly subdued from the surplus income that was transferred from earlier years, and is partly planned to settle in the next periods. Incomes of 4 independent deputies amounted to one million and a half kuna and were achieved from the state budget, while expenditures amounted to one million and 700 thousand kuna and amounted mostly to 90% of total expenditure, to donations and material expenditures. As regards 10 audits of the independent members of the representative bodies covered, their revenues amounted to 1.2 million kuna and were achieved from the budget of local units. The expenditures amounted to over 680,000 kuna and were mostly spent on donations. The most significant areas in which audits have identified irregularities and failures in political parties relate to the internal control system, accounting business, income and the use of business premises by political parties but without payment of compensation. In the case of independent representatives of identified irregularities and failures that would affect the truthfulness and reality of financial reports and the regularity of financial operations, and only one independent member of the local unit representative body has identified an irregularity related to the use of financial resources. The irregularities repeated in most political parties compared to the previous year relate to the use of the business space without compensation, as I said earlier, on the basis of contracts concluded with local units, i.e. local units' decisions. The contracts are usually concluded before the adoption of the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates under the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. In such cases, the office ordered political parties to take measures to remove those irregularities. The audit of local units also ordered the provision of business premises in accordance with the regulations. In accordance with the audit standards, opinions on the financial reports and business of political parties, independent representatives and independent members of local unit representative bodies for 2011 have been expressed on the basis of the facts established. This is how 10 unconditional and 15 conditional opinions are expressed for political parties. For all independent representatives and 9 independent members of the representative bodies, unconditional opinions are expressed, and for one independent member of the representative body, a conditional opinion. Mr President, Vice-President, esteemed MPs and MPs, I would like to point out that in addition to regular audit-related jobs, the office also carried out activities related to the delivery and publication of financial reports for all political parties and independent members of representative bodies and found that a number outside parliamentary political parties and independent members of local units did not respect the provisions of the Law on the financing of political activity and election promotion. We have informed the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia about this. The notice was delivered for 56 political parties and 910 independent members of representative bodies. In addition, the Office informed the State Attorney's Office and provided documentation relating to irregularities identified by the audit. It also submitted a proposal to 131 to the local disbursement unit for regular annual funding for 233 independent members of the local unit representative who failed to submit or publish their financial reports for 2010. In addition, the Office provided State Election Commission with further documentation for 44 independent lists which received funds for independent members of local authorities in 2011 on special accounts for the financing of electoral promotion. Regarding political parties, the office found that 17 political parties were not registered in the register of political parties, which was notified to the Ministry of Administration and the State Election Commission. In particular, I would like to stress that the office in all audits is carrying out a check on donors of political parties and suppliers of goods, as well as contractors of works and services in state bodies, local units and all other bonds of application of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs in this presentation, I sought only to highlight the essential facts about the business of the subjects that are subject to today's debate. As in earlier years, I must stress that the Office has collaborated with the judicial and other state bodies during this reporting period that cooperation concerns the exchange of documents and reports with the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime of the Ministry of the Interior and related to the implementation of measures under the Action Plan with the Anti-Corruption Strategy, the implementation of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the non-exhaustion of criminal offences from the process of conversion and privatisation, and other cases. For the purpose of carrying out the audit, the office cooperated with the State Election Commission and other state bodies. In order to carry out all the operations at the end of the reporting period, the office had 272 employees, of which 222 performed audit operations. Speaking of jobs and state auditors here, I would like to stress that the office is paying particular attention to improving the profession and applying best practice in a way that through active international cooperation we exchange views and experiences with other audits of other countries, especially in order to get better acquainted with the practice and experience of EU member states' audits in the area of revising the use of EU funds. Finally, I would just like to inform you that we have come up with a new strategic plan for the development of the office for the period from 2013 to 2017, which has established vision, mission, value targets of the office, and within our responsibilities we are working to increase the responsibilities of all participants in the process of collecting, spending and managing public funds. The values according to which the office wants to be recognized are professional excellence, teamwork, awareness and professional ethics, independence, and accountability and reliability. In the end, I thank you all for your attention. Any questions you may have with me and my associates will be answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30713	I would like to thank the Chief State Auditor, Mr Ivan Klestic. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. As President of the Parliament has determined that we are working on a break today, as the time foreseen for discussion by clubs takes 15 minutes, we have no conditions now to start a debate by clubs, so I will set a break and we will continue at 15.00 hours by taking the views of Croatian Labourers – the party of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30714	My colleagues and colleagues are starting a club debate. On behalf of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief State Auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This pile of paper is just a small part of what we got, it wouldn't even care on this table all together which is in one hand good. It's good to actually get a comprehensive picture of what the state audit is doing and it's good to see that it's a serious and socially beneficial job. Unfortunately, this is the 2011 Audit Report, so it's a bit of a pass. It's not only that year, it's that power, but some things never change what is seen from the report itself, so it's good to look again, let's see again, let's warn again, and maybe even do something about it. Namely, what's the audit doing? The audit controls the credibility and regularity of the financial operations and the compliance of that financial transaction with the applicable legal regulations and ultimately gives an opinion unconditionally to those who are very good, or who have done all they needed and conditionally for those who need a few more of the most important things to fix, unfavourable and who go directly to the State's Attorney's Office and abstention. Honestly, I've never been in my life before, I've seen a lot of audits and audit reports, I've never seen a abstention and I'm not quite sure what that really means. The audit received the assignment, the state audit was given the task of verifying the legality of the business of all those who spend state money just to say it. And now the review has established a lot of things, and then in the end, I'm sorry, but we'd hold back. I think it's actually illogical, impossible, and I'm saying I've never seen that before, and I guess that doesn't happen very often. The audit controls those who spend state money, exactly the money of those people who sent us here, and that's why the review report comes to us. The audit work is carried out by well-known regulations and practical forms. It is known what the revision checks and how the accounting officer, i.e. the accounting officer and his boss, will in time adapt to it and in fact make their documents fit into a decent state that the audit will assess unconditionally. Of course, if that doesn't happen then, at least as far as I'm concerned, there's a strong suspicion that something really bad is happening in that institution or that there's a level of sloppyness and negligence under the regulations and according to the laws of the state that finances them so that they actually need sanctions. The review does all this, examines 447 subjects, that 101 unconditional opinions, so 101 of these 447 are quite good and 345 conditional, one quite unfavourable opinion. It's worrying about this ratio. In practice, three-quarters of all subjects have serious objections which have failed to resolve during the review process or within that short period of time to be granted for the purpose of being obvious. That list is impressive. On page 9 of the report there are ministries, the Health Insurance Office, and so on, which have a conditional opinion. It's amazing that this list, so I've been following that list for 10 years, 12, still Mrs Krasic was the State's Chief Auditor, is practically not changing. There's always one of those same ministries, or mostly one of those same ministries headed by the Department of Defense, and there's nothing to prove to them. They're still obviously doing it their way, obviously making the same mistakes, they're on this list. The state review of the facility, I know how the State Audit works, and it's not vampires who are going to jump right by someone's neck but give advice, let's make people do it like this. It doesn't happen year after year. Maybe the rules are wrong, maybe it should be amended, if the ministries don't comply with the law how do they expect others to comply with the same law? One solution is, one solution is to finally call on the responsibility of the person who is to blame for the illegal or the way things are going by the law in the ministries, it's never happened before, because it's never been a negative report, it's always been a conditional one. Or change the rules and say that certain ministries and other state bodies are not subject to legal regulations for a simple reason because they won't, that's why. So write down in the law that the Department of Defense should no longer pay attention to public procurement regulations. These people defend us, they do a job that's a military secret, so we don't strangle them with public procurement, not even toilet paper. So to say that the Ministry of Defense shouldn't make a list of properties, especially a list of apartments, garages and similar substances that they didn't do, it says here inside, because that's what our people are serving, let's not need them to do it. The Ministry of Culture, if we decide not to respect it, that we will not respect the regulations, should not keep business books as others, but rather in some artistic way according to the general impression. Public procurement in the ministry should not be an obligation, but as agreed. In the Ministry of Economy, for example We don't need to control the support, so we've given our people support, and we know why we gave them, and what we're going to do after that. In the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance of Hospital Search, if we decide that these institutions should not comply with existing laws, it should be written in the regulation that the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance of Hospital Search should be paid in accordance with the principle of eenie keci pec, we will pay you, so they have done so so far, nothing has happened to them. So either so or really get on the tail of someone who doesn't respect regulations. We have put forward in the procedure a proposal for conclusions that, if we were not to send all those who have been subject to a conditional assessment, there are hundreds of them, according to which this ministry, which has received a conditional opinion and the Croatian Health Insurance Office, would be sent to the state attorney's report and the state's attorney would examine what it is, otherwise it will be repeated again and we will never come to a clear situation if we say it again, come on, it's no big deal they've made a bit of a mistake. They have made some mistakes 10 or 15 times, and apparently these small mistakes have accumulated long enough to make great mistakes. Part two, I guess it's a united debate, yeah. The second part of the report concerns political parties, independent MPs, local self-government and so on. Mr. Chief State Auditor has already said why the Labourists were on the list of non-parliamentary parties. It should be said once again that this evaluation of the political party's classification, the parties to parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties is not accounting and is not subject to any revision, nor accounting, nor accounting, nor accounting, but the subject of this Parliament. If this Parliament has accepted an MP who was a member of the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Labour Party in the past term, then the party has thus become parliamentary so that this should not be explained, okay, let us accept that it is a lapus, because other criteria have been seen. The report was actually made up in the same way as this section of the ministries and local self-government and ministries and other state bodies. At the end of this, it should be said that the parties have improved, the parties have improved, taken the seriousness of the situation and the majority of opinions, at least the larger parliamentary parties, along with some honorable exceptions that are difficult to get close to legal regulations, but I guess they are trying, and I suppose that they are trying, others have tried and received unconditional opinion. At the end of this report, this political section, to call it that, the revision found that there are 233 independent members of local and regional self-government bodies who have not given the report and which I assume will immediately be abolished, i.e. suspending funding until they do so as the regulation requires. At the same time, a list of 5 or 6 political parties came to our Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, which did not put on their website a report on their business, donations and so on. The law is not self-serving. You don't invest in the law so you can take it off this shelf and take it off this one, and then take it off this one. The law is fully respected. It should primarily be respected by those who bring it and that's what we're here for. Well, then crossing the road by the ground is more punishable for us than for those who don't pass that law. I guess that makes sense. Unfortunately, our Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System should have made a natural decision to do so until it was announced on the pages of its report to suspend funding to these entities or persons. It's for a short time, it can be set in a week or I don't know how long it takes people. The board didn't make it because there wasn't enough time to write a decision. And from the State Election Commission's report to the board's meeting, it's been three weeks, so if you can't write one decision on the half-page of the text on the board that has both administrative support and all that expensive, then it's very sad. This is just saying that we don't bring laws here in good faith, but we don't apply them to everyone equally. As far as we're concerned, we're in the pocket to squeeze the fig. It's not good, it's not fair, and it hurts all of us. And those who do this and those who accept it and those who remain silent. Let's not do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30716	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30717	Dear fellow Vuljanic, this doesn't make any sense. Every year, the same picture is repeated. Every year it is determined, the same situation is repeated, the state bodies are eyelessly trampling the laws, not respecting them, furniture jobs, muddling, spending taxpayers' money untransparently, cheating on the meaning of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, auditing it, and then all these hundreds or thousands of these apps are sent to the State's attorney, the state's attorney puts it in a drawer, it covers the dust, and in a year we're back here in the Parliament or some of whom have been doing it again in the same way before us. They will be determined in a year we will determine this as we have now established and nothing ever happens to anyone. Who's being punished for that? Who's been removed? Who's got his head, I mean political? Who was carrying any sanctions? And the other thing you were talking about, about financing parties. How they spend the political party's money. It's said more transparently in these reports. Well, normal and the parties that robbed the most were never found audits. So it's not a problem with the money you see, the problem is in that money you can't see as said by Mr. Ivo Sanader, who said with one-third you can't do anything, with two-thirds of that money under the table, you get an election with it. So black funds are the problem, the problem is the rule of law. I don't know if this makes any sense at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30718	We have a reply to the replica, my colleague Vuljanić here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30719	It makes sense to review, I'm deeply convinced it does. If not today, but in some very soon future, we'll still be a society and there's a perspective that we'll be organized society if we don't die in the meantime, right? It makes sense to determine whether the people who run the state's money stick to the rules that that state has made. If they're not able to, then let them go. Let them go, maybe it's not a crime that you found. Maybe it's negligent, maybe it's bad business, wrong decisions, no matter but if people can't be in state institutions like the ministries and state institutions for health care, and I don't know which regulations they've made, then they don't belong in that state's administrative apparatus. Of course these people have already left. This is 2011. These people have already left, but that's exactly why the State's Attorney's Office should determine what these people are and say it in public. They're these people, these people are wrong for the Republic of Croatia. Well, then maybe the next team won't get that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30720	Thank you. On behalf of the club of the independent Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30721	Dear Mr. Vice President, chief state auditors, etc. What's going on here? It means a revision of the state budget of budget beneficiaries. It says here that an annual review and annual reports have been carried out here in this report. So the state budget and the audit means 25 budget users. Unconditional opinions are given to the Customs Administration, the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Employment Service, the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Family and Defence, intergenerational solidarity, internal affairs, etc. a conditional opinion for someone else. Then there's these state-owned companies and I'm not counting any further. A clear revision of local self-government, 2011 total. Revised as many as 135 local units. Their financial report expresses 14 unconditional for 6 counties and seven cities and one municipality and 121 conditional opinions, etc. But good doesn't matter now. But why did I answer now? So maybe I can demystify a little detail here. Here, among other things, it is clearly unequivocal and local self-government revenues, which is said on page 4, "the total income and receipts of 135 audited local units amount to $18.5 billion, of which the revenues and receipts of 14 local units whose financial reports and operations are expressed unconditionally are 1.3 billion kuna 7.4% of this second 17.2%". In one word, not even those local self-government revenues as small as I think they are that insufficient are not banal. And that's how much that thing has to be demystified in some way as much as I've advocated, and I'm pushing for these revenues to be as high as possible tomorrow. The 2011 state budget had EUR 119.7 billion. The local self-government is constantly throwing out 3.4% control of cca 20% of that amount, 18.7 billion kuna, and it's without companies in its possession. Those units of local self-government and here I clearly count the county that someone is not correcting me, the units of the regional self-government as defined by the Constitution means these counties are absolutely the most sub-represented. Their financial potential should be strengthened. However, local self - administrations are involved in some financial redistribution that will surprise people with some 18.7% without utility owned by them. On page 13 of this report are the expenditures of the state budget, so it is said that the execution of €119 billion means that the budget, expenditures for the employees of €22.7 billion, of which amounted to €18.3 billion, so that I do not count further for pensions of €35 billion, etc., health care 25 means freely on the disposition of the former or current government remains cca billion for all possible investments. On page 27 of this report, it is said of borrowing and among other things that the annual laws on the implementation of the state budget determine the amount to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia can be in debt on the foreign and domestic money and capital market. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European The law on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011, the amount of the debt, as set out in the amount of 23.2 billion kuna, is set out. Receipts from the debt are 23.6 billion kuna. According to the pooled data, further competent administrations have registered the total debt of the state budget with no guarantees at the end of 2011, amounting to $140.8 billion based on the exchange rate of 31 December 2011 of which the long-term debt is $120.9 billion and 19.8 billion in the short term. And it speaks very much about the reality of this moment in the Republic of Croatia. On page 39, incomes and receipts of local self-government were achieved. But let's let it go now. So the income of the local self-government of these 127 cities somewhere around you don't wrestling with me for the word 500 and some municipalities plus 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb is 21.9 billion kuna in 2011, 2010 amounted to 22.7 billion kuna. That's about 3.5% less in 2011 than in 2010. Among other things, this is about the difficulties that this local self-government and the state face, it says that local activity or economic activity in the Republic of Croatia decreases rapidly not only in the area as I said the unit of local self-government but also in the area of the entire state means Croatia. When it comes to these 21.9 billion kunas, it should count what I know by my free belief, at least 50%, maybe more income at the disposal of local self-government when it comes to municipal services, whether it's a waste of garbage, whether it's water or something else. So local self-government at least at this point in the Republic of Croatia has 30 billion kuna per year. The state with extra budget funds as well as state-owned HEP companies may still have 140 billion kuna, I said local self-government with 30 per cent of cca 20%. It is clear that each of us will all do that local self-government has as much resources as possible. Why? If it were as close to the citizens as possible, however, as the state should reduce, I would say my demand, my expenditures, so should be translated into local self-government units. As the state should reduce burdens, local self-government should also be reduced. At this point in the state and local self-government, we have about 250 parafiscal duties. Enough of that, it's just that no one in their right mind can follow. We've got incomes going for ZAMP, garbage transportation, utility fees, TV subscription payments. Yesterday, some small businessmen are complaining to me, saying every car that has its own radio has to pay TV its special bill of no idea how many kunas now. He says I can't even buy a car without radio anymore, if I buy a car without radio again I have to pay that television subscription or radio subscription, so there are some waste water, so there are roads, so there are contributions, so there are taxes, so there are economic chambers, so these are fees for craft chambers, for tourist communities, for electricity and water, etc. That we don't even talk. It means a lot. What we need to do is monitor this export, what needs to be done to maintain these jobs, everything to give to this economy that is what it is, pensions logically we have to simply monitor and co-finance, health care too, but regardless of all this report I think is correct, that it should be accepted. I agree that it may be a little different, which Mr. Vuljanic spoke of, but okay. I also agree with what was said earlier that the revision had never revealed anything but that should not be expected of it. What we expect, the state's attorney's office and not the audit to do its job. The audit should establish something, and the state's attorney's office should act clearly. I also agree with Mr Vuljanic when he mentioned hospitals, he is absolutely right. I think there's a lot of money being drawn here, mostly through the public procurement system. I can't imagine that last year in Istria 56 million kuna was written off, this year will be about 170, the total debt of general hospitals is almost 6 billion kuna at the state level and so on. What should also be acknowledged is that this government inherited about 20 billion kuna of dubiosis, 9 billion kuna for shipbuilding, about 6 billion kuna for health care, for pensions of about 2 billion and so on. So it was work before and for the state audit and for the DORH, it was done. What I can't imagine is that some of the mayors are already in debt to the county today for a hundred million kuna with commitments for 2014 or some subsequent year. As far as the parties are concerned, it means this second report, what to say, but commentary, everywhere it's similar, we have big, we have little Fimi media or what it's called, it's all known, nothing happens after that, or rather some things happen that don't, things don't happen to others, nothing happens to others, it's not fair. We have PR agencies that are funded by public money and no one is just anything. In one word, we paint, we know everything, we review something, we never prevent it, and it's just bad. The more transparent the report I have the impression that sometimes in reality is getting worse, and what just happens in some political options is a disaster. What I really welcome as one of the brave acts of this government is that decisions have been taken to ban the financing of PR agencies, the same day when the Government makes it in Pula with 500 thousand kuna or 400 to 500 thousand kuna, I don't know now exactly, making a decision to clearly finance certain PR agencies which then edit newspapers and other publications, not only in Istria but also in Croatia as a whole. That's enough, that should fit on the tail, that should be said no, hold the media, keep the newspaper holding the radio stations and man asking himself a question as far as. So they will not determine the degree of democracy in this country, and all of this is done by what is the worst foundation of public money that citizens single out for other needs. If it does not fit on the tail, if the DORH does not see it, if the State Audit does not see it, if the Croatian Parliament does not see it, the Ministry of this or then it really does live in a random state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30722	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ club Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Chief State Auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's sad that there are so many of us in the Assembly, both left and right, I'm not telling anyone, when we're discussing such an important document, and I'm going to try to discuss this finding of the State Audit in a slightly different way because all the time we're going through some of the the thesis here, which, unfortunately, have never been fully supported or introduced, but what's very interesting, and what has prompted me in such a way that the debate on behalf of the club is that something in this report of the State Audit can be read and determined to say that the reforms that the local self-government and the government and the budgetary users should take place, because if certain things are repeated year after year, it is evident that something in the system is missing to correct it. Because you put yourself in a position to be a minister and anything. Who would be in the interest of writing the same offense again as the head of the ministry next year? And in the past 12 years, ministers have been from different political options. However, if certain findings of this State Audit Report were to be made, what the technicians would say would be placed on paus paper and overlapped, they would see that many things were unfortunately a match. These are the facts, these are the truths from which we, as parliamentary representatives, cannot simply run away. However, what I said publicly when the government made the decision bothers that at some point the government showed actually wanted to make this report unworthy. It is my opinion that today you would be fully discussing this report missing the report of that famous cuneiform or pure start from the government that was paid with 2 million and 330000 kuna, so let's compare what these gentlemen standing here have done wrong, they did something wrong with some independent auditors, and you will see in principle that everything these independent auditors have discovered writes to you here if you go ahead and look at it. Even some things far better done and some things far better complicated for the simple reason that other than people who work at the Ministry and the State Treasury in the Ministry of Finance there are few people in the state who know more of these people here about how public money is spent and how it should be spent. And that's why I say with this report, this report is missing. I'd like to know what the State Audit report will be on those 2 million and 330,000 kuna. Because look, when I said that these reports and the leaders of the local self-government unit, too, the leaders of the state level simply indicate that some reforms must be implemented. Then I would just ask him, given that there are estimates of certain political decisions in the State Audit findings of last year, I wonder if the cost assessment of 2 million and 330000 kuna will be indicated that this is something justified that has to be done. I say it wasn't, because simply by what the State Audit did, the government got one picture of the state of public finances and could therefore take the steps it wanted. However, if not only in Croatia, all black colleagues and colleagues will have this report, as the chief public treasurer said in the end, the chief state auditor said at the outset this State Audit will deal with the revision of the use of EU funds. You saw that our neighbouring country, and some other countries are this year, will have to pay back dozens and hundreds of millions of euros because of their incorrect spending of EU funds. Therefore, there are certain problems everywhere, and there are different interpretations of legal regulations everywhere. And when I look at this report so little analytically and you don't have to go much further if you don't really care about the first 10, 15 pages, then you're pretty clear. And you will come to those ministries and institutions that have conditional opinion in principle are three things or something about the internal structure is problematic property and the problem of public procurement. However, when we talk about the property of the state, then I simply want to ask here one question that I asked while I was Minister of Finance, which is who is finally to say competent and responsible for making that property register and finally making that book to say State property. Because this is simply when the State Audit works out, you always have the same question who's responsible to finally do it, so if we have to go back and find someone else on the side to do it if they're not able to do it by the state institutions. Why? Because when you look at all the reports and look at the report of the unit of local self-government you always have a problem with the property and the problem of using the property and the problem of giving it to someone else for use. These are the four questions about the assets that are constantly withdrawing. So let's go as the Parliament, as the left and right-hand sides make the conclusion that we finally try to solve it in a certain way. Or there's something that's that until you get rid of the grant books, until you get rid of some other stuff that property issue is practically impossible to solve, but then I think you should and put it in the bottom of one piece, and for this part that can be solved simply by those who don't solve it if it's repeated twice let them take responsibility for why they haven't solved it. It's also a public procurement procedure. As society develops, everyone in public procurement will thus be modified and monitored and only the question arises if we now have a united procurement at state level, if we have applied this Public Procurement Act for several years now so that a certain state-owned company and certain units of local self-government can take place without carrying out the procurement procedure. What should be done to control that simply such a job cannot be paid? And what you are is that I'm not quoting here right now, I'm going to try to convince the local self-government units that it's very important. The way in which certain municipal projects are financed through local utility companies, and this really raises the question of how realistic the cost is, as paid, whether this was supposed to be a public procurement process. If not, then let's define it legally and say that that's why there shouldn't be a public procurement procedure, that control is such for the simple reason not to repeat it year after year. Because when you remove these small utility infrastructure projects in the areas of local self-government units that operate local utility companies, and you have there if you want to take a closer look at the pearls from these local companies, then maybe we should just see what the law should change about the financing of that local municipal infrastructure that these local utility companies are doing so that these things don't repeat themselves anymore. But I repeat, in the case of state property, the key question is whether certain things can be done at this time or simply need to be left for a certain time of ad act and then not repeat every year in the State Audit report that some things have or haven't been done. So, so much for that part. Local units, look, colleagues and colleagues, it's tragic that only 10% of the revised local units have an unconditional opinion, only 10%. Of these 6 counties, 7 cities and 1 municipalities, 121 have conditional opinion. And when you look at this report a little bit, then you'll see that we're always here talking about a little bit of money getting these local self-government units, then you'll see that the amount they have of local self-government units is not negligible at all. This is a very respectable amount and that it should be taken into account. But there are a few things here that I think as parliamentary representatives, and since local elections are coming, it's very important to talk about and what I said is that it points to some kind of structural reform, which is that the expenditures of units of local and regional self-government are a significant amount of money to pay. And I don't think anyone in this country sees that as a colleague of the State Audit... The difference and now you can imagine when a graduate economist or a graduate lawyer from the State Audit Office with all the audit exams, courses, etc., with 15 years of working experience comes into control of some unit of local self-government and then sees there some reference with medium professional training who has a higher salary than him 20% or 30%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are facts and these are the truths that we cannot escape from. Now, is that pointing us to something or isn't it giving us directions? Look, when someone says normally that everyone skips it, they skip it for a reason because everything is in accordance with the law because that unit of local self-government has made its own regulation, made a decision on the basis, a decision on a coefficient based on some authority of the mayor and pays the salary that it pays. And whether, at the same time in the same building you have people from the State Administration starting with the Tax Administration through people from the Office of the Economy or the Office of the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, actually social concerns that have twice the pay. Let's say one tax collector, the same graduate economist or high-level lawyer has 5.5 thousand kuna salaries, while a fellow in local self-government upstairs has twice the salary. So these are some facts. Also, at the company audit. So I did at the beginning when I said that this report was far more quality than what these independent auditors did because I think that here in this report for 130 companies was a very high quality audit. A team more if only 18 received unconditional opinion, and 114 received a conditional opinion then clearly states that their colleagues from the State Audit had not looked through their fingers but had to be done, there was no colleague Caina, a PR story about how they wanted to know exactly what the results were and with this clean start to begin. This clean start came, but unfortunately nothing happened. Problems in public enterprises remain as they are. But here again, the sign of equality without structural reforms can be done here. As long as politics in one way or another dictates to a state-owned company that it must do so for one reason or another, it is in a position to simply make certain moves that when the state auditors arrive they will find something wrong. The revision of non-profit organisations – so look here in one part of the report is something that just fascinated me. Irregularities relating to expenditure relate to the level of monthly staff costs allowed and the calculation of contributions and taxes on fees paid to employees and members of the supervisory boards. So it's about reviewing non-profit organisations that also have a purely decent amount, somewhere around 620 million kuna. But it is very interesting that we return to the issue of wages, the question of contributions and the questions of compensation to members of the Supervisory Board. It was likely necessary to give 2 million and 330 thousand kuna for some independent auditor to establish it all together. So, let me finish this first piece of the State Audit report. The HDZ Club will support it with these findings that we said about assets and other things. We believe that it is extremely high-quality and that it should not have waited for someone else to make another report, I say, which would have been very interesting to have here today, but rather with that report that went along with the implementation of the 2011 budget, it could already have been seen in the state budget of the budget users, as well as with the companies. Finally, as far as political parties are concerned, the first revision of the first revision and the first one in 2008 which, if I am not mistaken, was the first revision of the political parties by amending the Law on the financing of political parties, so after the first revision and after the first control of the IRS when the IRS identified certain irregularities. It must be said that the business of political parties is what goes through the jury-account that has practically come to a very high level of spending, however, what is definitely the case in financing political campaigns in certain immaterial financing, in certain campaign financing that is not seen, which is from the position of those who are in power so they use certain things as in the function of presenting something in the city. So it's not about State Audit, it's about who's doing the Policy Party Finance Act. So two reports that are technically, professionally and extremely high-quality. Anyone who wants to read them a little more, and a little bit of what's going to be looked under certain numbers will simply be clear to him. But I don't think that certain things are either faulted by budget users, but simply the inability to solve certain things, and I think that's going to be good. And the other thing when it's said, and I'm going to end with that, about using a business space owned by units of local self-government with some symbolic fees or practically without the compensation of colleagues from the State Audit, you need to know that only one political party has inherited business premises, and we all have to either buy them, buy them or rent them, so that we'll probably be in the same position then and so hired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30724	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30725	Thank you, Vice President, chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. For years here in Parliament, we have been discussing the findings of the State Audit by providing fragmentary data from the audit findings by individual audited entities. If we analyze a little bit how the Croatian media is monitoring it then we will see it the same way they follow it. However, I believe that the Croatian Parliament, therefore the debate in the Croatian Parliament, as well as in the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, as well as in the ministries, should go one step further, so to analyse what should be done after such audits and audit reports. I primarily think here in the Croatian Parliament we should analyse individual laws. That's what my colleague Shuker was saying, analyze them, think in a good way you talked about, analyze it eventually, change it if it's not considered to be contrary to some other law or European practice, but that there is a problem in implementation. Therefore, I would actually like to say something about the very function of the State Audit Office and the State Audit Office which conducts audits according to international standards, i.e. by INTOSAI standards, which are always called upon in each introduction of the audit report. According to the Rome Declaration, the State Audit is one of the most important parts of the control system in the public sector whose task is to establish derogations from adopted standards, and the principle of legality, efficiency, efficiency, economicity in the process of using and managing public funds, with the aim of timely enabling the removal of all observed weaknesses to, in particular, highlight the removal of irregularities, to accept responsibility, to compensate for damages or to take measures to prevent new repetitions of irregularities. INTOSAI standards include reviewing the financial regularity and compliance with the legislation that has recently dominated our audit reports, but also reviewing success, or reviewing the effectiveness that we expect in the future, and for several years we have had in some parts and this part of the audit, so the performance audit, especially in recent times when projects financed from EU funds are assessed. The financial audit is not focused on optimal use of resources, but on the accounting system because it examines whether revenue and expenditure transactions have been properly implemented. While for this, the difference between efficiency audits concerns the revision of the economy and efficiency of the use of human, financial and other resources of one country or unit. It is based on an assessment of the objectives achieved by the audited entity and an audit of the activities achieved compared to the intended activities. The purpose of the performance review is to establish the level of achievement of the objectives and intentions envisaged by state and other programmes and activities of public interest, to ensure the measurement of the results and relevance of such a programme, to identify the means to achieve the objectives and intentions, to evaluate the effectiveness of the allocations and to assess compliance with the laws and regulations. The result of this revision is a recommendation aimed at improving public services unlike this first revision, which will focus more on financial and accounting, i.e. accounting records. We could, for example, do this by conducting an efficiency review. gain insight into the effectiveness of subsidies and other support in agriculture, industry, shipbuilding, transport or, for example, active employment measures, then we could measure in fact decide what kind of results they get. This brief theoretical introduction I presented because of the fact that this seems to me to be the 17th report of the State Audit Office, and almost the same irregularities related to the financial audit are still repeated. In 2011, 447 financial audits were carried out and 21 audits of the effectiveness of the collection of income from units of local and regional self-government. 101 unconditional opinions or 22.6%, 345 conditional opinions or even 77.2% and one unfavourable opinion have been issued. 2334 warrants and recommendations were issued which increased 41% compared to the year before. It worries that the recommendations are being removed slowly, which is not treated quickly enough or at all. Of the 1653 orders and recommendations given after the 2010 audit, 48 cases have been followed. 13% of the implementation of orders and recommendations is under way, and even 39% of the warrants and recommendations have not been implemented at all. Analysing who does not implement this and does not act on orders and recommendations from the table attached very easily, we can read that as far as the state budget and budget users are concerned, they did not act in 34% of the order, units of local and regional self-government in 41%, extra-profit users in 42%, and political parties and independent representatives, respectively, in as many as 61% of the warrants and recommendations. The State Audit find shows that irregularities have been repeated for years and relate to planning gaps, accounting operations, income and expenditure records, assets, state guarantees, borrowings, use of budget funds, public procurement, so most often. It shall not apply the modified accounting rule which determines that the revenue is recorded in the event of an accumulation, expenditure at the time of the occurrence of the business event, but in the 2011 State budget implementation report shall apply the cash principle or expenditure shall be recorded at the time of the collection. Such a way of drawing up a report on the implementation of the state budget in relation to the modified accounting principle unrealises the budget deficit for the financial year. In addition, the recording of the revenue and expenditure of the beneficiaries of the state budget from their jurisdiction is already such revenue and expenditure of the water in the supporting records rather than in the main book of the budget. Contracts under which state assets are leased are not updated, and local contracts are not charged at the end of the contract, or loans are not entered under lease contracts, no payment orders shall be issued. A concession register has been made but it does not provide complete data. For example. there is no information on the concession roles for the performance of port and other economic activities which are the competences of port administrations. No data on concession revenues from the register are harmonised with the records in the main book of the state budget. Part of the expenditure was recorded according to the cash principle, part of the realised contrary to planned purposes, part paid for expenditures which were not to be paid from the state budget. There have been irregularities in overtime, official travel, work contracts and the like. Irregularity of assets relating to incomplete recording and non-compliance of records shall be repeated. In 2011, public procurement was made in audited entities 3.14 billion kuna, of which 64 were conducted by tender, 18% of the negotiation procedures without prior publication, and 18% of the other procedures. The state audit reiterates its public procurement orders and recommendations as well as previous years, and I really think that we should see what we should do or make users or make them work in accordance with the law, or call public tenders for all purchases, or go into a partial change of the law. The 2011 State budget law established the amount of state guarantees of 4.9 billion kuna and made 10.34 billion or overruns of 5.44 billion or 111%. We also talked about this in the 2011 budget discussion. A similar situation in borrowing where the law established a level of 23.4 billion and the realisation of 23.7 billion kunas or overruns by 1.2%. Indeed, in such cases, the Government must go before parliament with an amendment to the law on the implementation of the state budget of the current year if such significant and large excesses occur. The payment of funds from the budget stock is less than established by the law on the implementation of the state budget but the expenditures that are predictable and can be planned which is not in line with the purpose of the budget stock which we also discussed in the implementation of the 2011 budget. From the 2011 report on audits carried out, we can conclude that the financial audit situation is improving but unfortunately slow and insufficient, especially when it concerns local and regional self-government units. This is particularly worrying because the State Audit Office cannot devote itself to another important task, which is an audit of efficiency, which will be very important by entering the EU and using the funds not only of the European funds but also of the European budget itself. And this time we can conclude that the State Audit Office is doing its job well, which is visible not only from the audit reports but also from the work of the State Audit Office and its international activities and cooperation. Therefore, we ask the responsible persons of all entities who use public funds to monitor the overall spending of funds more responsibly, as well as the state's attorney's office on the findings of the State Audit. The Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP in the Croatian Parliament accepts the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2011. A year. Report on audits carried out as a report on the audits of political parties, independent representatives and doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30726	Thank you, Vice President. On behalf of the HNS representative club, the debate will be shared by Rozo Radoš and Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, chief state auditors and associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here, after almost 20 years of monitoring the work of the State Audit Office, it can be said that from the very beginning with that office everything is more or less fine but that something about this office is certainly wrong because for 20 years as my colleague Zgrebec said, we have more or less of the same remarks that are not being corrected or repaired by such dynamics that it is almost undetectable. So something's wrong. We have 275 employees and 50 million kunas of the state office budget. The relatively good findings that we generally assess positively have very clear remarks about the poor work of all segments of the public administration, and there is no shift. And when you look at this report, you'll find the same things that were in those reports 10 years ago and 5 years ago, until recently, for example, the largest regional self-government unit in the Republic of Croatia did not have to discuss this report at all. It was not until the initiatives of some representatives in the city's assembly that this topic at all took place in the session of the City of Zagreb Assembly, which is completely pointless that such a topic for years, so for more than 10 years, was not the item of the agenda of the Zagreb City Assembly. And when you look at the amount of report and their character, then you see that there's something mathematically wrong again. Budgetary users are therefore mostly ministries, they are 25, 12 are rated conditionally means bad, translated. Local self-government units only 14 received unconditional opinion, and 121 therefore almost 90% of local self-government units received a conditional opinion, so the State Audit Office's poor opinion. It is a similar situation for companies in both local ownership and ownership of the central state 10:114, so 114 of them 132 have a conditional opinion. And nothing is much better with other users of the budget where the ratio is 20:54. To make the matter worse, as much as 40% of the recommendations and the order issued by the State's review is not at all respectable, not taken into account, it was not treated according to which the findings and recommendations of the state audit were processed, and then the question arises, and then why do we have this huge capital that we have, why are we spending these fifty million kunas if that's the case? The most dramatic example of the non-use of the State Audit and its findings is the review of privatisation. As you know in one major audit and political campaign, the State Office has carried out a review of all privatisations and conversions, found devastating and catastrophic results, one whole series of illegal crimes, sent it to the competent authorities, and then nothing happened more or less to anyone. Therefore, not only did the destruction of companies take place, it was recorded by the basis of an authorised body, but there were records of criminal offences beyond those privatisations which were unsuccessful and shameful but by law, there were those who were recorded violations of the law. And this is addressed to the State Attorney's Office, other bodies, and nothing positive has happened, so the big question that we need to think about is that these good findings of the State Audit Office could be used and converted and get a better state administration which is the meaning of all these findings. And we talked earlier about the economic situation of competitiveness, and when you look at what number of units of local self-government to make an elemental mistake, you don't need any creation, you just have to respect the law and, of course, force those people who are in the administration that you're in charge of following the law, how then you can read that there's going to be some kind of creation in terms of creating an entrepreneurial climate for which you need a little more knowledge and perseverance when you're not able to write down the property. The property that has been the foundation of each institution for 10 years already has been in these findings for 15 years that there are gaps in the list of assets and they are repeated year after year. The findings of the local self-government unit that I had the opportunity to look at almost the same formulas from year to year have not been done according to findings, it is criminal acts and nothing. This has happened and is happening with this State Audit, and it certainly needs those at least to show well where we are and what kind of administration we are, but a step further would be if this administration tried to improve the basis of these findings of the State Audit Office. Here even in projects financed from EU funds or other projects, therefore one project is not under these 6 funded by EU funds and you have failures there. Of these 6 projects, 3 were evaluated conditionally. So those projects that have special techniques under a special mirror are our bodies and bodies of the EU that have special control mechanisms and there are irregularities similar to those of other bodies of our national administration. And that's just as worrying. But certainly that potential the State Audit has should try to exploit. Of course, in this general part of the state administration, but it would certainly be good if in the coming years it was my thinking and some kind of recommendation to the state office that these capacities and knowledge, the experiences that the office acquired in the coming years might be a little more focused on these projects reviewing EU projects. This year, there are 6 of them, but it would be good if this part of the job were to review EU projects and other international projects that would be less in the future to become more represented in some way in the work of the State Audit Office. Here is so much about the general report, and a report concerning political parties will be made by counterpart Petar Baranovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30728	Respect, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Auditors with Associates and Associates, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Here is what my colleague Radoš said, I will focus on this part of the audit that I find particularly interesting and intriguing and, in fact, to draw certain conclusions in general, in the position of the auditor, on the real responsibilities of auditors and the real responsibilities of politics. As long as I followed in previous years until I became a member of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian representative and even during last year's debate, in fact, all these discussions on audits, regardless of whether it is political parties or other institutions of society, are very similar, and through everything very often occurs one motive, one parole. The findings of the audits are not reflected in the real state of society in the right way, i.e. there are no sequencings and no mechanisms, nothing is happening, nothing is sanctioned. And so the years pass, the society's organisation is still sick, and the real truth is that the role of the audit is completely clear, legally defined and that auditors do their job, make very extensive reports, very detailed reports. However, what is the true condition and what is true. The real state and the real truth is that, in fact, Croatia's policy bears full responsibility for the fact that the same reports are repeated year after year, that from year to year, here are, in particular, in the context of the political parties of the same party, as those who have conditional opinions, so what does that mean, and the same parties appear as those who have unconditional opinions. And actually the moment that we in Croatian politics, and in particular this institution, the Croatian Parliament, re-examine our own conscience, and when we realize that fish, as the Dalmatians say, are being cleaned from the head, then something in this society is going to start. The very fact that there are political parties that even have open court procedures on abuse often and often budgets, receiving bribes, corruption, that there are individuals who will be very certain to pass without real consequences, that is to say, individuals who will not suffer from such a system will suffer, is sufficient message for themselves who is responsible for the fact that there are audits that show up from year to year in detail deviations and miss out on an advanced course of Croatian policy and all political parties. So far, the conscience of Croatian politics in that part has not been a stronger side, a formal legal framework has been created that allows for the finding of audits to be left unconventional, a judicial system that has the status of the Pharaoh's Court in Croatian society, which is untouchable, and is very clearly and visibly connected in certain segments with politics. And so one part of the chain is covered by a blanket, the real truth about the situation in Croatian society, and how the deformities occur as illegal, immoral, unprofessional, irresponsiblely managed by financial means. Dogs bark, caravans pass, in this House next year if the political conscience doesn't work the same as last year, last year, it will look like this until we in this younger generation of Croatian politics get old and some new kids come in, maybe they remember then that we ladies and gentlemen are obliged to change the laws and prescribe conventions for all those failures in the audit findings. And I'm going to refer briefly, for example, to the case of local self-government units, their powers, the way in which budget money, management, financial management is available. How many units of local self-government and responsible persons in the system that have the right to sign and conduct transactions have made decisions have the consequences for the minimum infringement. How many of them even pay a fine for minor violations, those that are in the spectrum of parole, so those which the DORH does not consider serious enough to do his job, but in any case audits based on the prescribed standards and procedures consider that they should be recorded. How many mayors, deputy mayor, director of a public institution, the institution has ever paid a fine, to whom it has been removed from its salary. Has politics at all levels ever prescribed the right responsibility? No, that's not there, there's not even responsibility for not coming to the Parliament. We have the president of the parliamentary party, which I think is the second or third from the table of presence in the Croatian Parliament, and he is neatly receiving salary from Croatian taxpayers and giving us lessons in order as the traveling circus Monty Python and, of course, he is not here today because this is not a topic for him. The HNS will, of course, support the findings of the audit because the audit does not consider us responsible for the fact that society is systematically turning into..., but we expect the ladies and gentlemen from all of us and from opposition and from the position of the authorities to start doing our job more consciously because outside people who are hungry are not able to educate children, and we are so easily in that "dogs bark, and caravans pass" we are turning our heads from real problems in Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30729	Thank you, too. Now first, we have two replicas to discuss with our colleagues, Radosh. The first one came to Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30730	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, dear Representative Rados, you explicitly stressed in your debate that conditional audit opinion is a bad opinion. I have to correct you not so much for your sake, more because I feel like it's actually one pretty widespread perception. Insai, therefore, audit standards say that the conditional opinion is what is expressed when there is a doubt of one or more positions in financial reports that is significant, but is not decisive to understand financial reports, i.e. if business has not been carried out to a lesser extent in accordance with the applicable regulations, points to a positive opinion but also to a clear emphasis on the reason for which the conditional opinion is given. So the conditional opinion is more positive than negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30731	Thank you. We have an answer. Comrade Radosh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30732	Of course I believe that colleague Jelesh is formally right, that's true. But here I'm going to read the dubious display of errors that are related to the revision of other budget users of which there were 20 unconditional and 54 conditional opinions. So neither was the worst opinion. So, if these 54 conditional opinions weren't bad, then what I'm about to read shouldn't happen, and that's some of the revised users didn't pay their salary allowances, they didn't apply the prescribed coefficients, they didn't pay the copyright fees and they didn't pay without a copyright contract. They did not account for and pay the prescribed taxes and contributions. These are all contents of errors, violations, actions that are subject to this conditional opinion. I think that's bad. There are also elements of criminal acts, not just failures in business and public duties. And so I repeat, I allow that what you said was formally correct, that, by the qualifications of the audit job and the rules that it's not a bad opinion, but by content, it's a bad opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30733	Thank you, too. And the next replica Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30734	Thank you very much. Comrade Radosh, you were talking about criminal privatisation there in the 1990s but she was still being led. It was after the 1990s, and it can actually be characterized as a war profit. But despite all the findings of the audit that you said were literally defeated on this issue, you can say and apply that folk proverb bit by a donkey wolf. So, none of that. The second thing you said was that a register of state property should be arranged, and that is by the provision of Article 25. National newspaper 55/11, where it is prescribed that all authorities of the state administration, institutions and legal persons to whom the founder of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide the Agency for the Management of State Property with real estate data by 31 January of each year. So you also need to so-called. The property register has every unit of local and regional self-government. Here's another register, so it's forming. We have a register of defenders, a register of tax evasion, contributions, a register of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, a register of non-payments of police fines, and all non-registrations will be established within this year, so it might be good to change Croatia's name to register and that we are all actually in some registration, and Ivica Kičmanovići are at the head of this registration.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30735	Thank you. And at the debate of colleagues, Baranovic's replicas were given by Mladen Novak first. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30736	Mr. Vice President, so my colleague Baranovic can agree with almost anything from your presentation. You have found that unfortunately, for years, a report has been repeated that is to be welcomed, which is well done and that is not part of this, and we will support it too. But you also said that some new kids should wait to change their relationship. Among other things, you mentioned cleaning fish. The fish are cleaned from the head, not the tail, and the Croatian Labour Club has proposed conclusions on this debate. So me and you personally, but also your club, I call on you to support this conclusion and support it during the vote, and here it is stated in these conclusions that of all of them, the full report is set aside the work of Croatia towards the State Attorney's Office, the work of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance of all those ministries listed as conditional opinion and the Tax Administration. That would then be the first real step and the first real move in exactly that direction that you've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30737	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Baranovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30738	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Novak. I'm glad you agree with most of the exposure, which means there's some kind of conscience attitude towards truth and reality in this House regardless of political and party diversity. As for what you've singled out, I've stated in my speech that I appeal to work on the conscience of the entire Croatian policy today so that we don't wait for some new kids who should then, in some new time and new standards of morality, professionalism and ethics in this society, put things in the right place. And about finally your initiative, which you are preparing at the Croatian Labour Club, that is, you have written enough responsible work in your life to until I read something I don't sign the bianco. So when we get to the table and study and read what you wrote, I haven't been able to read unfortunately, unlike some who are walkers through the Parliament, I do some work. And I'm so glad to see that we can agree on important things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30739	Thank you. And the next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30740	Thank you very much. Kola Baranovic, your part of the debate about how much you have started to talk about how much someone in the Parliament can reflect this on any political party and its leader in recent years and see what the situation is like. And the fact that you're bothered by some political statements, look at me also interested in one election was a loan and then it's said that after these elections, 15 seats will be won, it was a basis for a loan, not so many seats were won but much less but the credit was returned. And now the question is how can someone function with a little money, but I say everyone's food chain will come in turn. And therefore there is the people, and let every man sweep before his door, and let him go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30741	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30742	Dear colleague Schuker, about the fact that we've been taking credit enough to tell smart people because we haven't had a colleague Shucker carrying bags, those black ones. Other things, let the institutions of the rule of law work, and it is a very interesting detail that in these audit reports, the CNS has, unlike you, had an unconditional opinion from fellow Schuker for years. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30743	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, Boro Grubisic and Josip Salapic shared the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30744	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Come on, enough, now I'm talking. Gentlemen from the State Audit, colleagues and colleagues here we hope that we too, Mr. Baranovic, will have some new kids clean up everything that remains and even when it comes to conditional opinion. So there's a lot of failures there as someone said and those acts that are also for prosecution. Unfortunately, the State Audit isn't a repressive apparatus but just a reporter in everything he finds, so what he's doing professionally according to the method... or as it's already called, gives his assessment of what's going on and what they find when he's auditing any entity now that I'm not talking about any subject. Yeah, there's gonna be some new kids, not some loser who's been in this license plate for a long time. We hope that this registration will finally be the real office and the right room, and it will work perfectly properly. But so far, the situation is such that we have of all the audits carried out 447 says that only Agroduhan is to be clear and loud about who he is. However, I found out if it was a mistake or if it's a slip I don't know what to say but when it comes to local self-government units, then for the Municipality of Velika Kopanica in Brod-Posavina County it writes a favourable opinion. One plus one are... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's last year? And this year they've improved or not been controlled, I don't know. Okay, well, I see that's numbered here, so I see an unfavourable opinion. Okay, I thought it was some kind of little mistake, and I see every damn thing, so here it is. Well someone noticed here that, I think Cain was talking about, that there's a lot to read from these figures. And that relative income units of local self-government, regional self-government are something and greater than we often speak in our statements, and then even after we count companies and company incomes, so urban, municipal, etc. Then your income and something bigger than you're supposed to be. Here's an example in Brod-Posavina County. For example, the County of Brod-Posaviska and the town of Slavonski Brod together have less resources available than the Slavonsko-Brodska General Hospital, yes. So a man asks himself actually when he looks at a function or position then he wonders what it's like for a hospital director to decide on more resources than the mayor of Slavonski Brod and Mayor of Brod-Posavisky together. Now, what and where the biggest number of remarks are found is seen from these tables, but I would specifically refer to public procurement which obviously almost every one of these explanations, starting with state institutions, ministries and to the smallest units of local self-government or certain companies, is always public procurement which, I do wonder, and if we have passed many laws, amendments to laws, additions to laws, debates here in the Croatian Parliament, is always a problem with public procurement. And he doesn't get rid of it. And I hope we don't get rid of it as long as it's a license plate. But what I've been trying to record here since 447 audited subjects, so there's only one that's got an unfavourable or unfavourable assessment as it's said in that method. But it's worrying that 345 out of 447 has a conditional opinion. The conditional opinion means that certain irregularities have been found, but according to this method, both unconditionally and conditionally, so to speak, we can put them in some sort of normal, regular opinion that should not cause the attention of the repressive apparatus of the state's attorney. Although I say I agree with my colleague, Radosh, in his first part where he said, and alone, I will not tell the witness, but I often have knowledge that things have been done for those who have a conditional opinion, things that are subject to and prosecution or criminal proceedings. Now, clearly, it's not the audit that's responsible for the initiation of the criminal proceedings, but here, let me find it. The State Audit submitted this report for 2012 and clearly that since it is just a report and we cannot, I have no doubt at all the accuracy of this data that is here. But actually, like my colleagues Shuker, it's not clear to me why a subsequent clean start is said, how they like to say it, and why throwing money, spending money in the wind, wasting money on some kind of, some kind of audit that says it's independent of how this audit isn't independent. I have no doubt of your independence, your objectivity and your knowledge at all. That's why I'm surprised that in a crisis like this, in a crisis like this, we're spending, I'd say it's useless and needlessly money for, which goes up to about 300 grand or more euros or about 2, 2, 5 million to have a clean start. He's as clean or unclean as he is, the state of the Treasury is known, the state of the state of the Treasury is known in all elements, so the economy, the economy, it's people in top places, the leadership of the ministry and me is not clear why we would give someone another 2.5 million kuna, so they'd better give the State's audit more money to be, to say, to include even more entities if they need to be in the state. Here, the HDSSB club, since it does not doubt the data and the results of the State audits, will accept this first part, and counterpart Salapic will speak this second part in the financing of the parties of the audit, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30745	Thank you very much and colleagues Grubisic, Vice-President of the Parliament, chief state auditors with associates and associates. In this part of the report on the audit of political parties, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of units of local, regional and regional self-government, your report will, of course, support with one emphasis that the HDSSB has so far and here and in this report received unconditional opinion for, therefore, according to the State Audit report and that is good. It is also good that those parties, therefore 10 unconditional opinions, 15 conditional, were created by 11 parliamentary meetings, 14 extraparliamentary, 4 independent representatives, 10 independent members of the representative bodies of the local self-government units, it would be good for these findings of the State Audit, when it comes to conditional opinions, when it is stressed that what is controversial and what should be changed, that, according to the findings of the State Review, then in the following reports, we also get what has not been done by the State Audit, neither by any party or independent representatives, or representatives, independent representatives of the representative bodies of the local self-government unit, who do not make, on the alert of the State audits, so what the audit is ordered or established. It is not good, and then it just throws a completely different picture at the work of the State Auditor who, as counterpart Grubisic said, is not a repressive body that can highlight any sanctions for the offender, but still call on those who need to stick to the framework of the law, primarily here it is political parties that are here and in this high home, but also in those areas of local administration and self-government still decide on important issues for the lives of our citizens and whether it is at the national level or whether it is done at local level. And that is why it is not good to be deaf and not act on the opinions of the State Audit, according to the findings. We believe that yet Croatia's entry into the EU should change something. First of all, we have brought firm and clear legal frameworks for the work of political elders, for the financing of election campaigns, election promotions, clearly established rules of conduct in this financial section, opening indirect accounts, special reports all much more transparent and much better than before, and thus throwing one stronger and greater responsibility to all political parties, regardless of whether they are represented in parliament or not, and regardless of the level and the level of the election. I believe and believe in the HDSSB club that this firm legal framework that exists is in, therefore, our legislation that there is nothing more to be done than to respect and implement because the law is in itself and especially when it comes to these rules of conduct in election campaigns and financial business when it comes to campaigns, but also to regular annual work of parties. The law is very clear here. It's only about who follows the law or doesn't follow the law. It is also evident in this report that apart from the parliamentary positions represented in the Croatian Parliament, there are a large number of political parties established in accordance with the law and the possibilities for the political party to be established under the law. We see that many political parties that have been established but are not represented in Parliament or are not represented in representative bodies that exactly such parties and do not behave in accordance with the law, although they have an obligation to submit reports to the State Audit whether these parties are represented or not represented by representative bodies. So that is also the other side of democracy, so that so many political parties if they serve the purpose of serving themselves and not serving the citizens and society in which they are founded. So they don't follow legal regulations, frameworks. It is only what democracy has a wide scale, and democracy can build anything, so it can be seen that there are unfortunately laws to be broken, because 120 and more parties in Croatia if they do not adhere to the law. The political parties are primarily political parties but independent representatives see in some units of local self-government are not independent advocates who have the support of therefore voters who are outside these votes about political parties that they too do not adhere to the law and then there is a ban on financing the work of independent advocates and parties and other sanctions which in themselves will not do much if they do not change themselves, so I am political work and I refer to what the parties or independent representatives should adhere to, and that is, therefore, the laws by which they are here today and who may be represented by Parliament tomorrow and who will decide on some important issues for the state if at these levels we have not yet become parties that decide not to comply with the law, then it is indeed without question and there is no sense of absolutely finding any solutions not in this law, not in this law, but in other law, that we still have certain restrictions and certain measures can be clearly accepted by means of our own laws, which are not subject to any other laws, which are not subject to any of law. It is a shame if it seems in parliament and even more embarrassing if it is said that some new kids should come and these new kids here can't stick to these first steps of that which is that they clearly and transparently do their political work either here in parliament or in units of local administration and self-government. We imitate your report but here and we propose and invite both all of us and the Croatian Parliament to join the clear legal frameworks and some other perhaps abusive and repressive methods, but the work of political parties and independent representatives in order is important for Croatia's reputation in the EU but also for our citizens and those who elected us representatives to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30746	Thank you, too. We have a replica, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30747	Thank you very much. A colleague Salapic is very interesting to look at the structure of revenue for the financing of political parties, so you will see that most of the funding for political parties comes from the budget whether from the state level based on the number of MPs in the election year for campaign compensation is also the unit of local self-government depending on which it regulates and of course membership fees. But I wouldn't be talking about it or replicating it if it wasn't for the previous replica. It's very interesting to see donations. So donations from 4 years ago and donations in 2011 and 2012 So you'll see that those who are politically positioned well at once about... The donation comes to a very high amount of donations, which is why I said that every little bit in front of my door is mixed because what comes with the gyrocalc, the gyro budget of the donation is also precisely defined by the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] It is known who proposed and adopted the law in 2007 and later modified it. So, but I'm saying it's very interesting, and this report shows well who made a few million donations in 2011, and whose donations just went down.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30748	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30749	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Shuker, I agree with you completely. What I specifically pointed out is a clear, firm, transparent legal framework that we created by passing the law and here we are in 2007, so here we are until 2013. It's all very clear, it says clearly in the law. Unfortunately, it should not be a different political will to decide who will receive a means more and less. I believe that the political work of those who have received should be supported and that in these elections that will go to the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the eighth one knows better because here is a picture of the seventh one calling, a picture of the current government and images of the future government, what surely those who follow, who live from ordinary work, ordinary worker and citizen, those who are schooled will best know to decide who worked well, who is bad, who should be financed, who is not. What is important is that politicians, political parties, independent MPs who get votes from their voters are not renegotiated from who gave them the vote but rather do the will of those who chose. I firmly believe and hope that time will come to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30750	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Myrella Holly, here you go, my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30751	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning of my debate, I would like to say that I will support the 2012 report on the work of the State Audit Office. One year and I must say that I am particularly pleased with the find or the report on the audit carried out by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, given the fact that I probably wrote the report would not have been so well written in my opinion. It is confirmed through it that it is a policy that I have advocated for years and things that I have warned for years that have been fully justified and justified and that I am not speaking here from the position of environmental protection but from the position of financial justification of a particular system. The most I will talk about is the operation of a fund relating to specific categories of waste or packaging waste, given the fact that exactly in the part of waste management, packaging waste has been observed the largest dubiosis, so to speak. Here it is on page 17 of the report relating to the audit of the fund stands out that the expenditure on packaging and packaging waste in the period from 2006 to 2009 was 864 million 765 thousand 509 kuna higher than the revenue paid to the fund by producers and importers of the products from which the packaging waste originates. Of course, this was not seen as a loss in the total management of the fund in view of the fact that the revenues generated by the Fund are, of course, significantly higher than billions of kunas on the annual basis of the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Act. However, what the State audit for the first time has established is that the revenue from the fees paid by manufacturers and importers of motor vehicles, electrical and electronic devices and tyres and oils is financed by the expenditure and management of packaging and packaging waste which, of course, does not comply with the provisions of the Waste Act and the rules on specific categories of waste which are prescribed that waste management costs are calculated according to the criteria of the quantity and quality of waste used by the polluter. I will not read other parts of this report but there is also an audit warning that the fund still warns that, regardless of all the warnings that have come from both the Assembly and the audit that they are obliged to launch a special bill for packaging waste and that, based on the regulations on packaging waste, this has not been done, and the exceptions that the fund stands out for which it has not been made are at least quite odd. What I'm saying is that here it is now and the revision confirmed that the system of management of specific categories of waste means not only packaging waste is necessary to form it in a way that is not based on the concession system, given that these concessions are different from other concessions that we have in other sectors if I talk about some kind of mineral wealth or similar because in the case of concessions in this part, it is mainly the state that pays certain amounts to those involved in the management of specific categories of waste which leads to a rather strange situation on the market because you have a very large number of companies interested in entering this business into this rather luxuriant activity but because of the current system which relys on a rather non-transparent system of waste management by the Ministry because, despite the fact that we have more than 500 companies in Croatia that deal with waste management, which rely strictly on other systems which rely on the legislation of Croatia does not necessarily have a significant amount of waste, and that the need to be addressed in order of the necessary waste, which is not necessarily necessary, and that the necessary measures for the need to be made by the necessary for the necessary for the necessary measures, which are necessary for the necessary to make the necessary measures for the necessary for the necessary measures for the necessary measures for which are not to ensure that the necessary for the necessary to be taken. What should also be changed, and what the revision also warns about is that these concessions should be abolished, given that concessions are also granted by the state according to rather non-transparent criteria, some may receive concessions, others cannot obtain concessions. There are already very well-seated mechanisms in Europe in which these systems work. These are market systems, and special categories of waste are often regulated using the so-called so-called waste. the recovery organization in which waste producers are equally involved and who have the obligation to provide such waste, then the regulator or the Ministry of Environment, the fund, consumer associations, waste collectors, recycling to ensure that the system is well balanced, fair and to contribute to the economic recovery of Croatia, because there is a lot of interest in the business of waste management in Croatia from a large number of entities which are unfortunately unable to deal with this business now because the rules of the game have been set up to enable one to deal with this work, others are prevented from doing this job. And those who are given the opportunity to do this job are determined by the fees they receive for doing that job in a rather non-transparent and non-market way. For example, one example when we talk about PET packaging, PET packaging was in 2008 when I talked about it in the Croatian Parliament had value on the world market for a ton of 400 euros per tonne. The Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund collected PET packaging on the Croatian market sold to those with a 50-euro concession per tonne. And that price that is not fully market-defined and which is at the loss of all those who pay certain fees in the fund, whose money is being poured over to these other purposes was that the goal is to start the green waste industry because I agree exactly that it is the goal but that goal can only be achieved in a way that we can establish quality market mechanisms to open up space to define the stock market that those types of waste that have their own financial price on international markets define exactly in a way that the law of supply and demand can exist because in any other way, there are these dubious things that we have in the system today, so in the transport of PET packaging, it happens to carry air because we often don't overrun those bottles and then we have bottles that are full of air, which have a very large volume, and all that costs and all of this fund pays to those who have a concession to deal with that part of work. I know that this issue is very complicated for people not to understand it, but I think that a simple state must prevent certain non-transparent behaviours in this part of it, and I hope that there will soon be a law in the House, a new law on waste that will in some way initiate precisely that, through sublegal regulations that will result from this law, define fair market principles for dealing with this very luxuriant activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30752	Thank you. Next debate, Joseph Kregar. Here's your colleague, Craig.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30753	... Chairman, respected representatives of the State Audit Office, ladies and gentlemen. [[Specially enabled.]] Not once did I find myself in a very difficult situation that people were telling me that I saw the world too black, that it was all crime and that once I had to stop. It hit me hard, I have to say, you know, and I've often thought about where to find a foothold for a better view of the world. But last year, an idea came to me and I'm for one book... is one not so noble but very useful way of copying, I used the State Audit report, so I wrote that the users of state funds don't plan to spend their resources, how they run double books or don't keep books, how they don't have information about their assets, how badly with the property of the masters, how they don't spend their resources for what they got them for. In particular, it concerns local self-government. And at one point it seemed to me that I had found a solution to my problem, so I described the reality, you wrote down the reality. I had a bit of a good time report because I had a laugh when I saw this annual review report because you did what I did. What you wrote last year could have been repeated automatically this year without major changes. The situation may have deteriorated, but we'll go into details and numbers. But it's really worrying when a man reads the formulations that should cause a sense of fear from every beneficiary of the budget, that he'll be fired from work, that he'll never get the money from the budget again, and so on, but there's no such fear because I think of course, and that's what the predecessors explained better than me, the situation... saturation occurred. Well, that's just it, but you can't stop with that. I thought as did my predecessors in the debate that perhaps the solution would be better co-ordination with services that cause some fear, a state's attorney's office, for example. But look at page 119 of your own report, so you're doing what's in accordance with the law but it doesn't produce some special effects. That's why my question is about this, who's afraid of state audits? Unfortunately, no one. Unfortunately, no one in front of you has the feeling that they'll be responsible for all these gaps that are in most of me seems to be criminal acts, because one year after another, you'll be repeating the formulations you're giving, and the consequences won't be. The second point, quite briefly not to abuse time, concerns reports on the financing of political parties. I've been pushing for something different for many years. You are really trying, and you have improved such an audit in a technical and implementation sense, but the right place of review, the political party's action is a body that deals with elections. I think you may be useful to the State Election Commission, but they need your reports on political parties and their means not only to read or learn but to treat them, because it is not up to you to give political assessments of what is democratically better, which is not. What will help, Mr. Salapic said that political breaks are fulfilling their democratic function, no, it's not up to you. You're what's called... you can bark but whoever has teeth must be one of those bodies. I'm a little surprised that we have court proceedings in which God sees me as a very serious crime, and that the reports on the control of books and the business of political parties are, in fact, positive and beautiful. Or there's a difference between reality and your control that I think exists because people and political parties have learned to better cover up the ways of their funding and we're completely wrong thinking that this way we're going to fix the situation. My opinion is something quite third. I think the situation has improved compared to the previous one, but it's not due to this or that government, this or that law. Here, in detail, I can go about how the position was gradually changing and what was unacceptable became positive. But what I want to say constructively in this, let us strengthen your action or control over the financing of political parties by turning the State Election Commission from a bureaucratic body led by judges to a single body that will encourage democratisation. Let me finish what's the point. You're a very powerful and work-loaded office, but you have no teeth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30754	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. Mladen Novak came in first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30755	Thank you very much, Vice President. Professor Craig, this class of yours, it was quite a lecture that associated me, in fact, with one comment. Since this authority often, or its representatives, often also said that the state is a bad master. From this statement of yours, this review report shows that it's not really the case. It's not a state at all, it's individuals again. And in each of these segments stands an individual who is responsible, who has not done what he should have done, but who will not answer for it. And unfortunately again you give an example, look you can work, you can make mistakes. Today someone said it doesn't have to be all about crime. It can be simply incompetence, sloppyness, superficiality, but the consequences are the same. I think it's all the point that, however, it should, therefore, go to that conclusion, the proposal of the Croatian Labourists to start somewhere. If this complete report ends with the D.O.R.H., there's no way he's gonna do anything. Not because they're good, they're the best, or I don't know what kind. But the fact is, if you give someone so much work, there's no way they're gonna do anything. But if you start somewhere, if you show on purpose that you solve segment by segment. Normally driven from above, which is the most important of the ministries, then there's hope that we can really run something, that we can really change something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30756	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Craiger.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30757	Thank you for your replica she's plastically showing me where to update. First, this wasn't a lecture, this would be some Twitter lecture, text lecture in two or four minutes. But the thing that you've pointed out is the fact that this helps in some way for the most serious things is a very high degree of selectivity. Well, not everything can be investigated by the State's Attorney's office. But I think it would be useful to maintain occasional coordination, where you would be warning of urgent problems. It seems to me that the solution is before co-operation with the State's Attorney's Office and that people normally respond to funds that use political responsibility. I don't see anyone being replaced because he ran double accounting, didn't pay the wages like he should have. That didn't happen, because it always went with some kind of general acceptance, so it's in everyone's interest or how it used to be spoken, so it's a useful malversion. I'm sorry, but the user of malfeasance can't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30758	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Craiger, I've noticed your thinking. Here's black, dark, crime, etc. But it may not be that important to me for the colors, but I also noticed where you said and mentioned the units of local self-government. Like they don't spend any of those funds they get from the budget, or maybe you can talk me out of it if I get it wrong. And I want to say because it comes from this particular area that local self-government units are very dedicated to the use of funds in this contributes to miles and miles of water, paved, unclassified roads and others, thus helping to improve the quality of life in those environments. And you know what the problem is, fellow, is that less and less of these funds are coming. I want to tell you that in my case, for example, the county where I come from, the city of Djurdjevac got about 50,000 kuna. Please, as much as he's saying that, and as much as the funds on this change in the income tax law have been reduced. And that's what the poorest lost. So if we're talking more about these aids in agriculture, which I often talk about where by a billion and a half in the last two years, it's saying enough. That's the reason for the alarm and the warning. There's no crime, Mr. Craiger.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30760	Thank you. We have an answer. Here's your colleague, Craig.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30761	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30762	Thank you. And the last replica of Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go, fellow Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30763	My colleague Kregar, you were talking about something that's really worrying about repeating it year after year, and it's a mild assessment used by the State Audit in its findings when it says that certain irregularities and failures have been found. It is true that this is a conditional opinion, a broad diapazone, and you often give artificially, or a State Review gives a conditional opinion if it is not amortization in one painting or in some furniture well-made but it is also conditional on such things. Here I'll just read the headlines the media published when they got this report. In one sentence for each ministry or for institutions or institutions. The Health Insurance Office. Did 266 000 kuna for climates without competition. We were in a hurry to explain. Tax administration was too late to send the charges, so the debts went out of date. Now we should let the State's Attorney's Department go. That's a different story. Every reference that went into oblivion pays out of his pocket because he's made it harshly negligent, and it's a standoff in the law to act like that, so let's see. They don't need to be driven away or expelled from service. No one should be forced to do their job. The private employer doesn't make anyone work, but hand him a book if he does. The Ministry of Tourism without control used cars, and so they shared support. The Ministry of Defence for the rental of space in 2011 spent 5.7 million kuna and stared at their empty spaces. The Ministry of Agriculture, the agency illegally gave 17 million kuna support. That's what the minister needs to say, that this law that's great and why was the rebellion? Well, someone's defending their interests that aren't sanctioned. There's a rabbit in that bush. The Department of Justice, bought without competitions of climate and furniture 1.6 million kuna. And there's so much of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30764	Thank you very much. This is what we're done with the replicas. We're continuing an individual debate. Nadica Jelash, here you go, comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30765	Thank you very much, Vice President. The report of the State Audit Office for 2012 together with the 2011 report on audits carried out, and this time deserves to be told to the auditor's dictionary dictionary evaluation, unconditional opinion, and the State Audit Office has shown itself in continuity as one strong link I will say so in the chain of public money control and protection of state property. In 2012, the State Office carried out a review of 447 financial reports, from the revision of the state budget to the revision of the financial reports of political parties. I'm going to tell the state auditors on a regular basis, so I'm going to search a large part of the public funds, and that's what gives these reports of yours one credibility, that's what makes them representative, that is, one really quality basis for making certain conclusions. Personally, I can't agree with some of the comments made that the State Audit job is infertile, that we have the status quo. Since the 1994 State Audition draft, therefore, in those 20 years of continued, valuable, and I will say indeed the prerogative work of state auditors has been done in my opinion extremely much to reduce the number of irregularities and illegalities found on the ground. Every year the truth must be acknowledged slowly increases the percentage of unconditional reports and assessments and the percentage of negative ones decreases. So we can still say eppur you're flies. And what needs to be pointed out for 20 years is too little time actually for some radical changes. Still, the fact remains, however, that irregularities and illegalities are still very much and that the resulting fact is still far the most precisely conditional opinions. As it seems in the reporting year, it confirms that out of a total of 447 audited entities from local to state level, only 101 or 22.6% therefore slightly more than one-fifth of them received unconditional opinion while as many as 345 or 77% were more or less problematic. So he got a conditional opinion, and in one case we have a negative opinion. A little bit better are those who are audited regularly every year, who are under constant control but too many subjects insist on showing the same gaps and that is what MPs actually do year by year, if they can say so, literally irritate us. Especially problematic has been a local level for years, and I actually want to concentrate my discussion on it. In fact, out of 135 revised units of local and regional self-government in 2012 only 14 received unconditional opinion, 6 counties, 7 cities and 1, so I emphasize 1 municipality. Even 121 received conditional opinions. What can be considered a kind of progress is that this year, unlike several previous ones, there were no negative opinions when it comes to local, or regional self-government units. Even more interesting indicators of the financial resources available to audited entities are. All 135 revised units of local, or regional self-government have 18.5 billion kuna. Of these 14 units that received unconditional opinion, only 1.4 billion kuna or 7.4% are concerned, while 121 units for which the audit findings were conditional are even 17 billion kuna or almost 93%. In this respect, the local self-government units, i.e. regional self-government, together with public money, complete information on the behaviour of companies owned by units of local or regional self-government. Of the 110 audited companies owned by local units, 94 or 85% received conditional audit opinions, and only 16 or 15% received unconditional opinions. So, if we round these data up like this, it's actually worrying data, and it leads to the conclusion that it's wrong, and it's illegal to run public money at a local level of mass phenomenon and that almost all local officials are bad officials, and even so we could say criminals. However, we know that this is not the case, and I must say that a significant part of the failure is simply due to the lack of expertise of the local administration because you are local self-government because of the lack of funds, so you simply cannot afford professional people. And local self-government units, in particular, I mean municipalities, so they don't even think about connecting with each other, and that some jobs work together to make their overall functioning more rational. So everyone in Croatia wants to be the boss in their backyard. And speaking of irregularities identified in local and regional self-government, I must point out that a number of these irregularities are particularly when it comes to accidental spending of funds, in fact, conditioned both by inadequate and unsettled legal regulations, which is a little bit spoken about by fellow Schuker. So, I will illustrate the inappropriation of the legislative framework by example of a municipal fee for whose use, so on the use of the funds from the municipal fee there are a lot of objections from the auditors. Namely, the funds of municipal fees are strictly intended and are financed by disposal, public lighting, maintenance of public surfaces, unclassified roads, cemetery, crematorium, etc. Therefore, one relatively narrow scope of municipal affairs and apparently the surplus of municipal compensation is directed to some other purpose required by the local self-government unit, and we know the needs of local self-government are large, budgets are otherwise insufficient because income from income tax such as this basic original income of municipalities, cities and counties in recent years have been significantly reduced. Therefore, the means of municipal compensation are often used not for a purpose, and that fact imposes the need for the Law on parafiscal charges to be changed, and on this very trail I must mention the proposal of the current Government that the system of collection of funds through the municipal compensation would be replaced by a system of taxation of real estate not only to be far more just for the debtors, but the purpose of the funds collected would not be as narrowly limited as the case with the communal compensation. Thus, the funds collected could also be channelled into municipal infrastructure, which is now the case, but also other programmes, and let's say social ones. What I think is the most qualitative part of the state auditors' work is theirs, so your instructive function. In the case of detected failures and irregularities, the audit shall give orders and recommendations with a view to removing irregularities and not repeating them. In the case of units of local and regional self-government and companies owned by them in the previous audit, they were given 1162 orders to correct the irregularities observed. Unfortunately, less than half of these orders have been followed, 521 of them, the smaller part is in the execution process, and even for 474 orders there is no indication that they will be followed. Of course, the result is that the audit procedure in the report, so again this year 2012 to units of local and regional self-government and companies owned by them is even given, this time 1416 orders and recommendations for correcting irregularities, which is even 60% of the total number of orders and recommendations given to all audited entities in the 212 years. So the data from previous years gives us the right to think that even these orders in large numbers will unfortunately not be executed. That in, therefore, a large number are actually ignored. It is ignored and it is indeed an unacceptable job of professional people who are paying taxpayers to re-exploit and spend their budget money next year by detecting actually the same irregularities, irregularities in spending that public money again, so taxpayers' money. It is simply a question of whether INTOSAI standards are inapplicable in Croatia, whether they are designed for a healthier environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30766	Replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30767	... colleagues in particular on the non-intentional spending of funds in local self-government units. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Of course, this unintended use can vary and have its special weight. Of course, the violation of the law is every accidental spending of funds, but when you have a special law like the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there was a household law, so when that law says that these are strictly dedicated assets that units of local self-government, of course, as these assets were shared between state units of local self-government can and must only be spent on building social apartments or POS apartments in any case to meet the social needs of citizens' housing, and there are such needs everywhere in the city of Zadar calling people for it. But these money is spent entirely on other things and not transparently. The state audit from year to year, we follow it, first of all, until we discover that these funds exist in the first place, and so they were blocked at one bank, so there was an interpretation that it would fertilize so that a lot more apartments would be made, so the apartments, so that money was spent and the State Audit every year per year says that these funds had to be provided to no one and nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30768	The final word of the applicant's representative, Chief State Auditor Ivan Klešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30769	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable MPs and MPs. We've come to the very end. Let me thank you all very much for all the useful suggestions, recommendations and comments related to the work of the State Audit Office. Of course, every year we carefully analyze everything that is said here and everything that we think can contribute to the quality of our office's work we will try to install into our work. I would still say a few words, and I fully agree with the statement of the esteemed representative Zgrebec who said that there should have been more and that we should do more efficiency review, we fully agree. I have to inform you in this high house that we're working on it maximum. Our cooperation with the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Austria, which otherwise exists 250 years, which out of 110 audits a year is 107 efficiency audits, we strive to do so. We organised 1 joint seminar with colleagues from the State Audit of Austria with the topic of reviewing the effectiveness of funding from EU funds, that is exactly what Mr. Honorable Representative Radoš said that such audits should be as much as possible. Every year we have several auditors who are in education at the European Court of Auditors, it certainly means that in the days that come we will certainly work on it maximum and go in that direction. I'm glad we're from the state audit, and we're glad we heard a positive opinion here today about our work, and we thank you for that, that's for our great encouragement. With those grades we get from international SIGMA institutions and GRECO where we get the highest marks for our work. So that's one sign I'd say the state review is going in the right direction. I am sorry that the distinguished colleague of the Croatian Labour Party is not present here. I simply have to answer two questions, which is why Mr Vuljanic cannot read a abstention from the State Audit Office in our reports. In fact, the abstention of the opinion of the State auditors shall state when there is no documentation or when the audit entities do not wish to give the documentation to the national auditors. We still said I'd somewhat arranged state so it happens rarely that the auditors of the paperwork are not available. The second claim by the distinguished representative Nikola Vuljevic said that the state auditors in their report meant that Croatian Labour Labour Party had been classified outside the parliamentary party and that the state auditors had made a certain lapus. The state auditors didn't do the lapus. We have also conducted consultations with the State Election Commission. We also asked for a written report from the Department of Administration and we got the answer, so let me read it for a while. Namely. For the results of the elections, the services concerned are the results of the elections, which determine the State Election Commission, which show that the party of the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party or the Party did not participate in the section of the parliamentary seats in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and, consequently, that party in the same meeting of the Croatian Parliament did not receive a representative in the Croatian Parliament, which means that it was not a parliamentary party in the same meeting of the Croatian Parliament. And finally, in the following opinion, we believe that the State Audit Office is in the 2011 audit report. The year properly classified the Croatian party, the Croatian Labour Party party working outside the parliamentary party. And in the end, allow me just one more sentence. As the main state auditor of the Republic of Croatia and I will continue to organise the work of the Office and carry out my tasks, my tasks in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Law on the State Office for Audit and International Standards which define the basis of the principle of work in the Supreme Audit Institutions. Thank you very much for the attention you've given us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30770	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on reports one and the other. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30771	Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2012 and the report on audits carried out. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2012 and the audit reports shall be adopted. Please make a statement. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the majority of the vote's conclusion is 117 for and one against it. I am voting on the conclusion proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – party of work. A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2012 and the report on audits carried out in the section expressing a conditional opinion on financial reports and business of budgetary users in the annual report and on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 and for: Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry, Water Economy, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Health and Social Care, Ministry of Science, Education and Sport and Tax Administration shall be submitted to the Croatian State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. It is up to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to submit, within 90 days, a report on the actions carried out and any criminal acts on the operation of the above-mentioned entities in 2011. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for the Labour Club's conclusion. Who's in? Thank you very much. I say we vote. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were not accepted by the proposed conclusion, 36 votes in favour and 83 votes in abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30833	And we're moving on to another point tonight that we're going to be working on, which is the 2011 Annual State Support Report. This report was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency in accordance with the provisions of Article 20(1). State aid laws. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter of the opening exhibition, President of the Board for the Protection of Competition Mrs. Olgica Spevec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30834	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. So you have before you the ninth State aid report that the Agency delivers to this high home in accordance with the State Support Act. Therefore, the agency has been doing the job for the last ten years and its work in the work is likely to continue but in a second term, given that the supervision of state aid from 1.7.2013 is taken over by the European Commission. This report contains an analytical review of the state aid granted in 2011, final support data in 2010 and 2009 and an assessment of the movement of state aid in 2012. The report is drawn up and structured, starting with the methodology and way of showing state aid in the EU, which is our commitment and Stabilisation and Association Agreement and also this with the report is also delivered to the European Commission for transparency and awareness of support in the Republic of Croatia. Data for the report were provided to the Agency by state support providers, so state bodies, ministries, funds, agencies, units of regional and local self-government and part of the data of the agencies is also included in their support control records. The Agency has systematised and processed all these data, and you will find in the report a very detailed presentation and comparison of state aid data with macroeconomic indicators, then on each individual category of support, support instruments and a parallel display of support in the Republic of Croatia with support in the EU and its Member States. For the first time in this annual report, data on state aid under the map of the national statistical regions of the Republic of Croatia at the NAC are also presented at two levels, which was in force until the end of 2012. And the impact assessment of the state aid granted was also given in 2011. I particularly stress here that the Agency is not responsible for the control of support to the agriculture, food, fisheries and forestry sectors, and in this report only publishes those support data in those sectors to which the competent Ministry of Agriculture has provided. So it is clear that this report is more or less concentrated on supporting the industry and services sector, which is both the obligation and the State Aid Act. So what happened to the support in 2011? We gave nine billion kuna support, which is about 3% less than in the previous year 2010. The share of support in GDP was 2.7% and 7.5% in the country's total expenditures. The indicator of the decline in support is also the fact that, according to employee state support in 2011, they amounted to 6 thousand 378 kuna, which is approximately 5% less than in the previous year. Supports per capita are moving at a level of 2 thousand kuna. So every Croatian citizen to support the economy has singled out 2,000 kunas. The activity-based support structure shows that 4 billion kunas of aid were allocated to industry and services in 2011 and 4 billion of aid to the agricultural sector 125.3 million. However, trends in the movement of support to industry and services and agriculture are different. In fact, while support for industry and services sectors accounts for a drop of around 8%, support for agriculture continues to grow and is about 3% higher than in 2010. Given this, the share of support to the industry and services sector is falling in the overall support structure and moving around 54%, while the share of support in agriculture is increasing to around 46%. In 2010, this ratio was 57% of the support for industry and services according to 43% of the share of support for agriculture and fisheries. A more detailed analysis of the level and structure of support to industry and services shows that, for individual industrial and service sectors, 3.6 billion kuna has been allocated to most of which goes to transport, shipbuilding, HRT while for horizontal objectives, support for regional development, support at local and regional level has been allocated to a billion and 300 million kunas of total support. A positive trend is that sectoral support is therefore supporting certain entrepreneurs in 2011 to a decline of around 17% and support for these horizontal targets is growing by around 9%. This improves the relationship between sectoral and horizontal support in the overall support structure of industry and services. In fact, the share of these support was actually sectoral in 2010 at 77%, however, in 2011 it fell to 74% and the share of horizontal support increased from 23% to 26%. That we are very far from the European average suggests that in the EU in 2011 this ratio was 90% of the support in favour of horizontal targets and only 10% for sectoral objectives. As part of the horizontal support, you will see in the report the largest part of the support relates to regional support and support to small and medium-sized enterprises and accounts for around 60% of the total support granted for horizontal objectives. If this were to be added to the support of small values for the same purposes but they are not methodologically added to the total support, that amount would be higher. From other horizontal support, I would set aside support for research, the development of innovations that have been given at €125.6 million and the support for employment of around $90 million. All other support for horizontal objectives is given by far smaller amounts. Thus, these mentioned and still very modest state allocations for horizontal objectives have shown also one of the more important reasons behind the competitiveness of the Croatian economy or rather the Croatian industry in terms of competition from EU member states. In fact, the objective of granting support for horizontal objectives is to help the economy face what we in the economy call market failures or challenges and costs that are difficult to deal with and market-efficient entrepreneurs. It is about the need to allocate greater resources for support aimed at adapting our industry to high standards of environmental protection, increasing energy efficiency, the need for greater investment for research and development, improving, ensuring easier access to capital, more intensive promotion of regional development and so on. That the EU is focused on this type of support shows that in the EU out of the total 53 billion euros in support to industry and services in 2011 around 12.4 billion and 24% of the total aid allocated to the R & D sector is allocated to around 10 billion, and for regional development, as much as 14 billion euros. Therefore, this is not about support from the Structural and Cohesion Funds, but about support from the national budget of the Member States. In this respect, it should be noted that, for example, in some Member States Germany, France's state support for the above-mentioned objectives gives rise to very high amounts and that they are a significant instrument of industrial policy and export strategy for the processing industry. And the fact is that Croatia does not have the budgetary capacity to grant state aid that could change the image of the Croatian industry, the structure of exports and increase our export competitiveness in a short time. It is also undeniable that these objectives cannot be achieved only through the granting of support but must be implemented by a series of coordinated and coordinated policies and activities, i.e. to build state institutions that will be able to shape and implement these policies. However, we return to the support because it is evident that with existing allocations with the existing 9 to 10 billion kunas we have for support, by changing the policy to provide support to smaller but more effective support by rerouting them from sectoral targets to horizontal targets by appropriate selection or broadcasting of priority programmes and projects to be financed from state resources, as well as by reducing the costs of managing the support system, or by streamlining it could achieve far greater impacts and results than those achieved in the previous period. At the same time, one of the principles of support policy should be the principle of proportionality, so the balance between the support objective and the level of support itself should also be achieved. Unfortunately, the policy so far has given support to this principle is largely neglected, so support or too high, i.e. they enable the continuation of business to fail entrepreneurs without the necessary internal restructuring and what actually generates further policy-making, so unchanged policies or sometimes the support is too small for those objectives that they wish to achieve and therefore have no effect. I would therefore stress the need to use more rationally aided funds, especially in sectors such as rail transport, public television, line and maritime transport, air traffic that take up a large part of state resources. But this is not possible without serious and deep restructuring of these sectors. The restructuring aid grant in these sectors must guarantee their continued market and business sustainability with future minimum use of state resources while at the same time guaranteeing the quality of services they are obliged to provide to their users. Therefore, the objective of the support policy should be to implement the necessary restructuring processes in activities that are vital to... the economy, which will then leave more funds for horizontal support, to strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian processing industry or the Croatian service sector, and there will be more resources for innovation, specialisation, modernisation and reorientation of production with greater added value. In other words, in designing a support policy, important reforms need to be launched in order to bring about in practice an approach that promotes better quality and better targeted support which is a fundamental feature of the support policy implemented by the European Union and its Member States, in which there is no alternative in the conditions of reduced opportunities for the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30835	Thank you very much. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30836	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Madam President of the Agency, I am closely following the support in agriculture, and therefore I am pleased to hear your allegations of how much the growth of support in agriculture was, and I want to say very clearly here that they have contributed to the fundamental goal of what you were talking about, so the growth of the economy, the growth of agricultural production and the creation of competitive agriculture. In this sense, it also tells the increased production of milk and meat and everything else and a large number of stands built, etc., not to mention the machinery. But that's why now the mourning of this year, this relationship, this simple relationship so much reducing these aids that are almost 40% less than that period, means that they're back somewhere in '99. A year. And what's that got to do with it? There is a difficult situation in agriculture that we witness every day and then leads to the collapse of strategic branches such as agriculture and, of course, in the future, to the collapse of Croatian villages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30837	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He's gone and he's losing the right club to argue on this wheel. Next is the club of Croatian Labour Labour Laburist-Stranke and colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30838	Dear Vice President, the esteemed assistant director. I thought I'd start a little differently than last year but your closing words changed that decision for me after all. You mentioned big consumers of state aid and among other things there is definitely the biggest traffic and then you have now explained which part is controversial in this. It is essential that these companies be restructured, then conditions will be created for them to have a perspective, with minimum support and with their dealings. You have set an example for the European Union. In order for this first thing to be compatible with this second one, that is to say, with minimal support, they can carry out their activities in a satisfactory way, it would be necessary to first put them in a position in which such firms are in Europe. An HH who has the average age of a rolling stock is 40 years to parity with I don't know Austrian companies, Germany is really impossible. And on the other hand, you said it on the board today, maybe you just said it now, but I missed it. One part of the separation of the state in HH is not treated as support. It's an investment in infrastructure. This very long-term infrastructure failure has led to an uninvited position and operators that are under the support system, so we now have a situation that our operators, for example, cannot provide us with a specific HZ-Cargo cannot carry out any transport within an excessive period of time because they are closed for a few days. That's a bunch of... It's ships all the way to unload. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all going to the company's burden. And then again, we have a situation that this same HZ-Cargo had previously bought, in that same year 2011, by this very material, the 2011 pre-election year, i.e. the election year buys 100 wagons for the amount of 54.4 million kuna. Bought 100 cars from Djura Djakovic. Normally, it's good because with it, that's how we save Djuru Djakovic. On the other hand, it's positive. However, the 54 million kuna HZ-Cargo cannot pay off. That means they'll take over the state. At the same time HZ-Cargo has his own cars that he can't maintain because there's no money. These same cars can't be maintained and these cars are standing and we're simply doing double damage. When we add up the fact that we have thus destroyed the workshops of railway vehicles in Bjelovar and Čakovec, who have lost their jobs, it is questionable that we are actually doing it. And now we have Cargo with about 100 new cars that are in operation, well that they are bought but whether as much as necessary, which will also be sold with those 100 wagons but will go for some insignificant figure, due to the fact that in the meantime he lays down all these losses because of the way he's been brought in. It's just one example, and I agree with that what you've stated is that essentially you should, you didn't call it that, but through your argument it's concluded. There should be some general strategy of availability and support and, in general, the Management Strategy and State Property, as well as the State as a whole. One doesn't work without the other. They'll have more, I'll be, I'll give another example that the state is contradictory to itself. So let's say we have the same thing now, which is related to this part, given that it's the same traffic. These days we got into materials about the strategy in tourism. At the same time, we have Brač Airport which will most likely be closed. The state is giving up its 36% stake in the airport. At the same time, some Swiss, Austrians, are investing in tourism, health tourism. We're right there in these final areas of yours mentions that there's a new tower there, funded all together. But it's never really worked. It still stands, practically loses more than it functions. That's terrible stuff. It's something you can't, it just can't and can't tolerate. The transport sector has yet another quality example, which you mentioned today on the board of Croatia airlines air carrier that is going into restructuring. I don't know the preconditions for a successful business. And what they will do by what they can read. One plane sells and they take that same plane to Leasing. The other plane sells, not the other plane pardons the parts. As a result, there will also be extra employees and a reduction in service quality. But that same carrier of ours is a user and state support. And now there's the question of how we work here. I mean, it's obvious that by nothing, we're not a country, that you just don't know who's doing what, in whose interest. It's all a little weird for me. In the opening part of it I was actually going to start, but in the end your exposure turned me a little bit. In the opening part, you mentioned that your report only mentions the support for agriculture, i.e. that you took them if you received them from the Ministry of Agriculture. However, this is called the Annual State Support Report. And in my opinion, that this Annual State Aid Report really would be an annual report inside should stand as it says for these other users and who are the beneficiaries of the support in agriculture. Whether we can trust the media and say that Agrocor pulled it, and at the same time we're creating a picture in public, the media is helping to do the same thing, that these peasants are rebelling, going out into the streets. What do they want? Look how much state support they get. But that's not what these people get. Today, I'm reading from a professor. A blacksmith from one of the "Live Village" organizations if I'm not mistaken, for example, an Austrian model. They don't have to be big farms. After all, we just have a situation and even these parts, not even particularly these parts that have been occupied. Isn't that what keeps the population from staying there? So give these people some call them whatever you want to support, but let those people stay alive, so that those villages don't die out, that we don't destroy everything. I don't even know what the point of the country is if we're going to have a grotesque territory empty because we're cutting their transport by policy, we're cutting their mail. They called me the day before yesterday, four post offices are abolished on the move that we call Donja Posavina but it's just us Donja Posavina, a move from Sisak to Novska and this part towards Banovina. How can these people work? What purpose do they have, what do they have from this country? None of these public sectors that are supposed to be in the role of citizens are at their service. They don't have traffic, schools don't have kindergartens. The garden in Kostavnica is shutting down, what's going on with it? Nobody jumps in. The bone is a appendix, and that's not what the state is interested in. So give me that support. What's the point of the state helping anything if it is, and no one has disputed that it isn't, if it's Agrokor. Well, I don't mind, and Agrokor should live, but then you should say it's like that and not like this. I wanted another word about the village even though it's not directly related to this topic, but about this village and that dying village, and finally let's say and support around the village I mean mostly right on Slavonia and where people were pushed into large holdings, so these people got loans. And now I remember that we've been told for seven years if I'm not mistaken there will be no sale of agricultural land. If anyone knows if I'm wrong, I'd be glad to be corrected. Well, there's no sale, that land's a sale, but it's not sold, it's a day. People are raising loans that are mortgages, he has nothing else to borrow but that country. Foreigners already own it. It's not a floscula, it's true. People who are more in agriculture, who are from these speakers, from these positions have declared how many milk producers have shut down in the meantime, how many OPGs have disappeared in the meantime? Well, it's all that country. She went for the loans, the mortgages, and she's gone. I'm a little off this subject, not a little bit but a lot. Among other things, 2.9% of GDP in support, 2.7% wrongly written, sorry, and should go more horizontal, I agree with that. And then I read the text HT, VIPnet and other teleopers pulled 16 million kunas to develop broadband networks. And it gets into these state aids that we say are too much. So now that you've got the parallels of one HZ, parts of HZ, one Brač Airport, I don't know, I'm still here to help these poor peasants, and we're helping T-COM. I understand that this is all going the way the EU has prescribed it, the European Commission says so we just gently nod our heads and that's it. But as far as the report itself is concerned, the report is as okay, but I'm still standing by that attitude that the report would be complete only if that part of the farm was complete, or if there were other names inside, other users of the support if it were standing inside, so that we all know it was Agrokor, and if it wasn't Agrokor that we knew who the other one was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30839	Thank you very much. You said yourself that you were a little off topic, but you need to make sure that we have three laws to pay for the support and here we are discussing the support in the economy. Therefore, not on aid in agriculture and rural development, i.e. in fisheries. ... Yeah, but they're not being followed by the agency. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Read the law and you'll see. Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30840	Now I have nothing to replicate when it's not a theme of agriculture. I'm kidding. Well, you've noticed, Mr. Novak, that we actually have a phenomenon, you want to answer, that we have a phenomenon that the entire villages are simply left without people. Here, for example, to support cattle farming, which is the ideal area now that I'm going to tell you on the move from Grazac, Brna, Mazin, Lapca to Bihaća has a total I'd say by population list, so maybe I'm wrong if there are 600 to 700 people. It's a 100-mile move when we look at it like this. Let's not talk about a move if you were on the road to Cetingrad-Topusco. There are three houses all together. It's so-called. the soft belly of Croatia, which is really soft in all indicators, and also in the crime that happens there from smuggling and everything else. So the support we talk about today is often going to say I won't say in the wrong direction, but what you said about Agrokor people really in Zagreb has the impression that even when you talk to them about agriculture and what you are in Slavonia rebelling about, you have 4 billion incentives for agriculture, support sorry, and what it is to you. And they don't really know that almost 80% of these support goes to the big so-called ones, and only 20% of that 4 billion went to the small OPGs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30841	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30842	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I completely agree with that, you mention to me the area that is actually my area, is that well known to me. I know what it means, unfortunately, that the abandoned land is practically gone, that there is nothing left but the old population, and I'm afraid that nothing leads in the opposite direction that all of this goes towards extinction and extinguishing unfortunately and these villages. I am extremely pleased that Mrs Spevec has confirmed my thinking, mine, I do not know my wish that the component of this report should be a complete report on agriculture or with all the support users, without being like this, not to say the dry part of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30843	And Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30844	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Novak, I am, regardless of whether you stick to the subject or not, but I certainly noticed this area of agriculture that you were talking about and the support in agriculture. And you've given some thought about the relationship who's got more in that division who's got less. I believe that's justifiable thinking and certainly OPGs I'm afraid they pulled less of that cake, that they took less but they got one piece of it again that improved production, raised production for sure. But now he's worried about his colleague Novak, and he's bringing it in, eventually leads to what you've been talking about to the collapse, to the desolation of the Croatian villages. Now they're reduced, we can't be blind to it, that reduced agricultural support is almost 40% compared to that period. Support has been reduced, and the other thing is the bigger problem, the mess has been introduced, there's been a riot in the support, there's the biggest problem. If we remember last year, only when they were getting people didn't even know why they were winning. Also these days, the minister will announce support will be paid, I personally testify that these days have not been paid. So why are they protesting? Now there's been this problem again with milk, it's about milk, it's about myhotoxins which, therefore, we have so much control of milk, etc. And now all of a sudden on our farms, imagine you're the mihotoxins that came. So, all of this brings to an unequal position of our peasants, leads to one imperceptibility in the Croatian village and ultimately, the ultimate result will be what you said, a dead village, and there is nothing sadder in this country than a dead village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30845	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30846	Thank you very much, colleague Milinkovic. Now that you've started with the OPGs, then I remembered today it's on the board, I think it's just on the board that it's not unsaid here, that in Germany and France support is given for the benefit of the exporters. Then for the purpose of guessing the exporters. And then, this one I remember being also said here that, I think the owner, the new owner of the hotel somewhere on the Adriatic, if I'm not mistaken whether Turkey, whether Israel, bought a man, bought a new owner bought a hotel on the Adriatic, in that hotel is even toilet paper from his country, even he's not from here. And with all these OPGs being shut down, I believe that we could do what we could do in time as a merger of green and blue Croatia, that could be done right through the support system. But unfortunately for us, the situation is that every segment works for itself. It's just that this example from Brač, we just don't go into my head, that the state invested in funds at the airport in Brač and now raises its hands from it, the airport will most likely be closed. I mean, that drunk billionaire behavior isn't like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30847	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30848	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President and Madam President of the Competition Protection Council. So here is a report that, in fact, in your opening statement, you said a few important points actually that are far more important than this report itself, because this report is now for 2011, already in 2013, we already spent our support in 2012, and surely these numerical indicators that are in this report are already easy to pass. However, what I would like to say on behalf of the HDZ Club, and ask the same question to all of us whether, in recent times, we have been able to give support beyond certain criteria in the last two three years when these criteria simply had to be respected, we have achieved what we wanted, and that is whether we have restructured our economy with these support aids which we should have and whether we have prepared the economy for the competition. And I think that these are two key questions that, given how many of us are here in this House, we should discuss, a man is actually asking himself whether this debate makes sense. Because colleagues and colleagues when we talk about money, then we don't care about the amount as a nominal amount, but depending on what point we need politically for something. We're talking about nine billion kunas, nine billion kunas, taxpayers' money spent in one way or another, and they didn't want me to admit that support is politics, or politics is support. Because we simply can't distinguish support from politics, and that's what separates certain political options. However, when we see how much money we have left for these support that is important, so to restructure the Croatian economy and support for competitiveness and then you will see that this is a very small amount compared to that of the total amount of support that has been allocated, because in your report you said in the introductory section that some 9 billion kuna support was allocated in 2011 and when we exclude only 4 support to say so, one is shipbuilding, another is HRT, the third is traffic and the fourth is agriculture that you will see that for restructuring of the economy and for raising competitiveness from the Croatian economy is very little, when we know that unfortunately over the past years we have not developed the criteria that support must have had our own feedback on whether we have achieved something with that support because that we have succeeded in imposing and that is a matter of policy, then we would probably have a different situation today. Because when you give support to someone, then you give it the same reason for something you gave. Then it's also very interesting and there's this famous PFU form that the Ministry of Finance has been pushing for six, seven years now with the intention of seeing the fiscal impact of what we've given out of the state budget and anyone who gives support so no matter what the Ministry does to the PFU form and using this PFU form to assess the fiscal impact of this money. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and only one technical application not to forget my colleague, Spevec, has put a comparison here on page 14 with macroeconomic indicators. There can't be a comparison of two things that are different. These indicators can be put against certain macroeconomic indicators and you can't compare them because they're simply these two categories that don't compare. So I'm going to talk about that support policy, and also the correct support policy gives results. The results of macroeconomic and macroeconomic indicators in 2012 are catastrophic. And the support is practically at the same level. Some are less than they were in 2011 although 2011 macroeconomic indicators were bad but compared to 2012 they were more than good because two quarters we had positive economic growth, one quarter we had stagnation, and the number of employees was almost 80,000 less than today. The same number of employees was higher than today. So how much more shipbuilding will cost, we'll see. So we've taken over all the guarantees the state has made over the past few years on behalf of the shipbuilding damages for taking those properties and everything they had on the maritime good, so there's been some more costs, and that boatbuilding strip has gone up. She's who she is. HRT billion and 300 million kuna. What Croatian citizens have out of these billions and 300 million kunas, perfectly nothing. You're looking at soap operas just like on these other commercial TVs. Transport and this is the key thing to say that over the past years it's swallowed a lot of money because in 2005, 2006, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, railways were going between 2 billion and 2 billion 900 with support, because the railways could not exist without that money. In 2012, the amount was reduced to a billion and a half kuna. But there's something I'm sorry there's no colleagues here, and that's the so-called Novak. working ratio and that is how much you need to give to Croatian railways from the state budget funds on each of their earned kunas so that they can function. At this point I think that working ratio is about 1:2.5 if by 0.1 or 0.2 points higher or smaller it doesn't matter but when it started for the first time in the restructuring program of the Croatian Railways to bring that ratio down to 1:1,85. Why am I saying that? For the simple reason I want to illustrate on a practical example what support for restructuring means. So when the process of restructuring started, this ratio of support funds given to a particular company which is in the problems and the ratio of the money itself is being reduced, it also mentions the write-off of interest, the write-off of taxes, the reduction of certain liabilities to the state, and is now asking one elemental question if this support has been in recent years the status of the Pre-profit settlement and financial transaction Act, because I am here as the former resolution minister and today looking well at this law with the intention to help the Croatian economy cannot possibly be accepted by anyone saying that individence has been reduced by 5 billion kuna and no one has paid anyone lip. It's someone administratively overwrited certain obligations in such a way that we reduced them. I'm only interested in the current aid law that I don't talk about what's waiting for us after 1.7.2013. what is the status of these funds because if I'm not mistaken for some two, two and a half, three thousand pre-ruption deals, it's planned to be settled somewhere around 27 billion kuna. These 27 billion kunas most of these funds no one will practically pay anyone, the banks will give up one piece of interest, the state will give up this, mutual claims will be resolved in a certain way and God forbid that with this operation and that's not the first such operation was such operations in the past. We can call her in one way or another, just remember the settlements according to the Law of Achievements, not the charges charged, which was with a period of one year. God forbid this measure results because I am looking at this measure as we can say support for the restructuring of the Croatian economy. Since realistically looking at these two thousand other companies is practically complete Croatian construction, there is a complete metal industry and the logical thing is that nobody in this country is normal and smart is that Croatian construction and companies fall to their knees and there is nothing left of them. But I say to myself, what kind of treatment is this entire operation going to have? Or if she has support treatment, etc. Then I don't think it's good for all the bells because of the PR needs to talk about the fact that there's been a 5 billion indifference. Because if you delete something administratively, then you didn't reduce it because by that logic it could have done it far before someone else. The next problem here I want to talk about the concrete facts that we are facing and we have faced in recent years, this government in the past 14, 15 months has been the individual companies that have been the bearers of economic development in their region in recent decades, but they have been doing business with various losses for the past 15 years or 20 years. They too need to write down certain guarantees or certain interest or take credits so that they can exist because if they disappear in that area, they will practically disappear. What status will such support have? Why am I setting this up? For the simple reason that these are questions that we will have to answer after 1.7. Mrs. Spevec has also said this support we've given over the past few years without saying these in the future are practically coming out of her jurisdiction. She could now well-intentionedly warn the donor and support that she was in certain frames and could make a fuss and panic about it, and that's where her story ends. However, the point is that Brussels will not behave in this way. Brussels will simply ask one who receives such an illegal support to repay that nominal amount. And such a company that's in trouble certainly won't be able to repay that amount. And to end up with that support for so-called. restructuring because we could count to infinity. Support for competitive, watch when you look at how much money is going to be restructured, when you look at how much total company traffic has been in recent years, how many people are hiring, then the question that we companies at this point can encourage to be competitive towards outside. And this interlinking problem is, in my opinion, the key to solving these restructuring problems is then we can say that we push these companies to be competitive towards the market outside, but companies will pull a number of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and without these large companies, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have nothing to do and have no one to work for. So a series of open issues from colleagues and colleagues when we talk about this Support Act and I will end up with this, support is the biggest economic policy and counterpart Novak said about one support for companies that need nothing to get that support, have a phenomenal profit, Croats telephone and when should and when not, but someone said they could get support for it. Tomorrow, when we meet in the common European market when we withdraw support from EU funds, be sure that there are a lot of these support that will very much favour certain companies from stronger countries, and these companies will come to our field and unfortunately our companies will not be able to use support for competitiveness but will unfortunately have to use restructuring support. So a report that's made in quality, a report that might need to be read in a slightly different way than we read. A report that I don't think suffers from political bickering, and I underline this on behalf of the HDZ Club, a report that doesn't suffer political bickering. Any political bickering over this report is one major political irresponsibility for the future of Croatian companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30849	Jozo Radosh replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30850	A colleague of Shuker's one word chases the other. He talks about the disastrous results in 2012 when it comes to the 2011 report, and then calls for no political crackdown to be used. So, counterpart Shuker says that policy support and really support are politics, so he asks two questions. First question, have we achieved a market and competitive economy? We did not, which means that the policy that was to be done was not a successful policy, and this policy did not achieve its goal for an 8-year period. This is therefore a failure of policy and thus more declassified stories about how catastrophic macroeconomic indicators occurred in 2012. So what might be the indicators after the failure of the policy you've spent eight years? If there is a failure of indicators to the macroeconomic conditions of the global economy's overall recovery for 4 years then your debate may be relevant. And the second thing you asked, did we achieve what we wanted? That depends on what anyone wanted. Whoever wanted a competitive economy didn't do it because we didn't do it. If someone didn't want anything else, that guy might have done it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30851	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30852	Thank you very much. My colleague, Radosh, I must say that you did not listen to what I said. You switched two things first. You can't talk about competitiveness before restructuring, it's a key thing. And I was very careful when I said that I was talking about restructuring support, and then later on about competitiveness support. The second thing is, colleagues Rados, we talk about the economy about macroeconomic indicators then in 2008 we have to draw the line because by then it can be said that Croatia could have an independent impact on some things. The second half of actually the last quarter of 2008 and this all that happens later Croatia is only unfortunately found in the whirlwind of the global economic and financial crisis and there you wanted or did not want to admit what we had a great impact on what we could control is the financial sector we kept stable. That's why I did mention certain companies that are carriers of economic development in certain areas are in a lot of trouble back 10 or 15 years, and even inherited from before but I didn't want to go that far. However, when I said that this report should not be politicised, I still stand by it, and when I said that in 2012, bad macroeconomic indicators went only to whether we were with the support we were giving, I mean in 2012 and before that, we achieved what we wanted. So these macroeconomic indicators are indicators that these aids did not achieve what was desired because if you had growth in the second and third quarter of 2011, if you had stagnation in the fourth quarter, and you had a massive decline in 2012 then obviously the support that was given in 2012 did not achieve the results or the support given in previous years did not stop certain trends. But we need to discuss it, it needs to be analyzed for the simple reason that it doesn't happen to us tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30853	And Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30854	My dear colleague, you're saying that the use of the PR is in order to reduce liquidity, 4-5 billion, that there is basically no such money anywhere, etc. Well, I think we all know that according to the Accounting Act, all the books have to be factual, true, and the budget has to record everything. It is therefore about the amounts that are being settled whether payments, whether compensations are being settled, but what is key is to show that this government knows how to resolve indifference, and that is not the PR, but it is concrete and fact-finding because all of this has to be recorded. As for support, for example. which you mention in shipbuilding and strategies and competitiveness, so I must say that this government has clearly defined what is called support for the shipbuilding site in Split and the shipyards in Trogir, i.e. the means that go according to the restructuring plan for the next five years and clearly and completed this story that money does not leak, but that it clearly knows why it is given and how it will be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30855	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30856	Thank you very much. Comrade Gjurkovic, I will start with this last one that you have signed already practically completed contracts for Brodosplit and Trogir, and these contracts are by no means different from those you have followed. Talking to Brodotrogir and Brodosplit would cost far less, and the effect would be exactly the same. And the other thing, this is great as you've elaborated, this should be given to high school economics, which means administrative decommissioning of certain obligations. So the logical thing is that certain business events have to be recorded, just see if the state writes off a tax in the state budget that tax hasn't come. If a business bank writes off interest, it has less income with the basis of interest on that and that amount. So, the only one who gets... how much bill is the company that's in trouble but no one's got the money. And you can't talk about solving the liquidity problem if the money isn't in the bloodstream. These are solving certain non-payments from past periods, and I would like to investigate why these non-payments occurred. But you can't tell about the reduction in indivisibility because when you look at how many non-equity companies were in the beginning of 2012 and how much there was in late 2012, you'll see that that amount increased by 5 billion, but accountingly, so I just took advantage of the right expression that this is an administrative reduction in indifference, and under administrative reduction in indifference is a recording. So at the Ministry of Finance in the IRS, based on VAT, pension, health, they're going to cut someone by 50 million. As part of this, the business bank will reduce interest by 20 million and the company that is in the pre-profit settlement process has reduced liabilities by 70 million kuna. Did that 70 million kuna get someone third, no. So that's why I told my colleague, Spevec, to ask the question of what kind of support treatment would be because she said in her opening part that every write-off interest, every tax write-off was support for the simple reason that one economic operator got it, and the other economic operator did not get it, he was thus privileged and received support from the state. Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30857	Thank you very much. Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30858	Dear Madam Vice President, the esteemed president of the agency, Mrs. Spevec, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are discussing and perhaps for the last time in this way and in this form of support, because next year we will discuss all of this in another atmosphere because we will be members of the European Union, and they will also have a completely different way of talking, regardless of what this year will be about in which we will be half in the European Union, half not. But a few illogicalities when we talk about support and this report. It seems as if this is such an irrelevant topic, the malts are not marginal, and on the other hand, we look at what money we see as a very important topic, 9 billion kuna is at stake. We're always talking about this year and this time as we did in the past few years. So in February 2013, we are now discussing the support that took place in 2011, and we now have a situation that already certain groups of users of support have already risen with... etc., talking about problems in 2013, we are discussing 2011. Of course, I don't blame the agency, it's not there, the agency just has this kind of work dynamic when it gets some data, then analyzes it, sum it up, so here we go. Otherwise, the second illogicality is that here in front of us when we talk about the support, and so we have before us the president of the agency and the agency who submits the report, the agency what the people would say.../I don't understand. So she gave neither confirmation nor determination of the extent to which she would go or to whom she would go. He who determined how many they would be, whom they would go to, how they would be controlled, he did not report them. But these are our illogicalities here that have been going on for a long time and we probably won't even fix them, but in a year, we'll be looking at these things differently when we join the EU. What would be logical, so when you talk about the support so that you can talk to whoever decided how big it would be, where he would go and who he gave them to. Of course, if that were the case, if we had put it that way this time it would be impossible simply because the government that did it in 2011 was no longer in power, so it wouldn't be possible again. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't talk about problems, not to criticise what happened before, but simply to see what wasn't right, which should be changed, and ultimately, especially in light of what we're going to be in the EU in a month or four months, so we're going to have to change some things as much as we don't. I said this is a very important issue because it's about nine billion kunas that don't come out of one way or another into the state budget, or most of it goes out of the state budget as a subsidy. So nearly 7 billion kunas go directly as subsidies from the budget to certain entities. It's not that small. It's about 2.7% of gross social product or about 7 and a half percent of total budget expenditure, huge money. On the other hand, the EU, which we will enter into, as I said, is much less than three months from now. In the EU, average support is 0.6% of the social gross product. So, about four and a half times less than we have. Well, if, apart from that farm, we come up with a little bit of different numbers. The biggest users of these aids especially when it comes to subsidies from these 7 billion are primarily agriculture and shipbuilding. There are both Croatian and Croatian railways, but agriculture and shipbuilding are the largest. And look at the absurd. We give huge money, far greater than others give, and on the other hand, those who get it say they're small. Farmers a little bit, a little rebelling, shipbuilding, too. So they're saying their position isn't good. On the other hand, for years we have been saying that the support in these sectors is bigger and bigger than in our environment in the EU. So far away, obviously there's something fat wrong. Now what's wrong? I won't talk much about shipbuilding because this is in this year's thank God ending this problem we hope with shipbuilding. Shipbuilding will be privatised and there will be no more support for shipbuilding, it will not be possible. Of course, there are still tails left from previous shipbuilding recoverys that go up to a few billion, but I'm not going to talk about it now either. So, but I'm going to say more about agriculture because, which is another significant support user, because these support for agriculture will continue. And it's good to go. And it will go mainly from the European budget. However, these opportunities to discuss this agriculture are therefore the effects of these support. Unfortunately, for many years now, Croatia has produced almost nothing for its own needs but the wheat we traditionally have more than our needs, sometimes corn, mandarin because of the valley of Neretva and honey. So besides these things nothing else Croatia produces enough for its own purposes. I'm talking about primary production. It's an industrial product already. But we also have enough sugar. Those who are from the area where sugar is done know it. On the other hand, we do not produce any meat of any kind. Milk, dairy products produce enough. And now I'd say a little absurd, is it, if we were isolated and closed, if there wasn't an international exchange of goods, if there weren't imports, we'd be hungry and we weren't producing anything. Now, is that a good condition? Of course it's not a good condition. I am therefore, supporting that absolutely agriculture but these support must be monitored and the relevant results that must be... increased production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, if the policy objective is to support such a result, if the aim is to provide support so that they result in the production and competitiveness of that activity, then they should expect it. If not, if the goal is someone else who is often popular or populist, then that's another thing. If support wants to buy votes, say yes, etc. Then of course you can't expect results, and then I'm really shooting at the wrong thing because I'm looking for results where someone didn't plan on having them. Of course, when I talk about it, I'm just going to say the farm incentives are doubled from 2.2 billion to 4 billion from 2004 to 2011. What are the effects of production we see based on what I was saying earlier. So, you should encourage, but different than you've done so far. Most of us had incentives and support to help certain subjects, so-called vertical support rather than being prepared and trained by state resources, state money to be competitive and to deal with competition. So, even with the great support of ships, we don't produce more than before, but rather less, we don't have enough food, either. It's simply a question to ask ourselves why and how long. We're gonna have to change some trends. We therefore see from the agency's report that in the EU it is a practice that most of the support is so-called. horizontal support, so 90% of the funds go that way, with just 26% of us. So they're the ones that are geared for development, for research. So, which in some ways train economic operators to be competitive. And we go directly to certain entities to create a product. I'd use that Japanese saying that says you won't help a hungry man by giving him a fish to eat than by teaching him how to fish and then he'll always hunt and he'll never be hungry again. And so about we should apply policy when it comes to support. Therefore, to train our entities with support and with the help of the state to become competitive and that they can produce both better and competitive, not to allow them to live with support, and when there is no support that they simply cannot function. However, this is often the case with us, not only in the economy but also in society, we are always dealing with bad examples, not good examples, from education further. We all deal in school with bad students, no one good, no talent. We all jump more and dance around the bad guys because somehow it was thought we should deal with bad students, not the good ones instead of the people need them, but also the good ones, we should stimulate them to be excellent and the great ones to pull us forward. That's the way it is in the economy, then. It is necessary to help and invest in those who, with the help of the state tomorrow, will become more competitive and withdraw this economy forward and this country, not those who have fallen and who can only exist with help. As far as agriculture is concerned, of course there will continue to be support. They will mainly come from the European budget. I said about shipbuilding, I won't talk about them because I hope this year we'll end up with support in shipbuilding. In agriculture, we will mainly expect these support to go from the EU budget, as it is in other EU member states. When we look at what it is now, a few days ago we witnessed the adoption of the EU budget for the next seven years. I took a little look at that data, so for agriculture, Croatia received 4.6 billion euros over the next seven years. It's somewhere on the annual level when we turn our kunas into about 3.7 billion kunas, so we would get equal funding every year for agriculture and now our incentives in agriculture are somewhere around 4.1 billion. So, what we need to do is to make our subjects more competitive, to train them to fight on the market because the EU is no longer protected, we are not alone, we will have to fight both our producers and our industry in the European market. Of course, these support must result in their better products, larger products, more competitive products. And as for the village, there were words here, and support to the village, it is necessary to distinguish the support of agricultural production from the support of the village, i.e. from the support or development of the village. Of course, the state should invest in the development of the village, it is in our interest to have sustainable development of the village but not to do so through incentives for agriculture, so not to do so through incentives for products but through other forms, which is not an incentive to those we talk about. So, the development of the village yes, but not in a way that through support through agriculture we ensure that they compensate for the total things that should be happening in the country. Our all agricultural producers regardless of whether they are individual, whether they are large combination private or large companies or should not be able to be competitive in Europe tomorrow to produce competitive agricultural products. And the village should, in other ways, be encouraged by other state measures to continue to develop in the country, to keep people in the country and not to flee to cities at all costs as we have witnessed all these years and decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30859	Replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30860	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Jelusic, I could agree with you in the part where you talked about the illogicalness of the timing debate and in that part, but I can't agree with you in the part where you talked about the support in agriculture and in such a way that you said they were ineffective, etc. I responsibly claim that the support in agriculture has achieved a fundamental objective. So, creating competitive agriculture. In addition, there is increased production of milk, meat. All of this is, 150 million liters of milk is increased production from 2003 to 2010. But what happened to the support in these two years that were cut by almost 40% compared to earlier it was unprecedented. Simply, farmers planned certain projections, of course they have in that part and support. And in addition to that, he says and testifies that milk production has dropped almost 30% thanks to such a policy, meat production by almost 12%. 30,000 cows ended up being forced into slaughter, Mr. Columbo. Over a few thousand farms are closed. These are the devastating results. And now you're talking but they'll be able to use EU support. So who's gonna meet them? Who will welcome these support when half of them fail? And then you say that in that part it certainly needs a balanced development of Croatia's life in the country. So the village goes extinct because if there's no existence, if there's any such relationship. And now you're saying, so I'm the minister in the current class talking and we're going to think about it and we're going to work on it. It should've been a long time ago and not let it get to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30861	Thank you. Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30862	A colleague of Milinkovic's again one of your arguments that are not arguments but in order for someone to like you again. And don't tell the truth, of course. So it's not exactly what you said about the amount of milk production. In 2003 540 million were purchased in Croatia and so on, to round up, 540 million pounds, or liters of milk, in 2003, this last year in which we are considering 626. So, a slight increase, it's not there, and over the years it's been very varied. So there's no big drastic shifts you're talking about, so I'm up for that milk. In fact, it should be reminded that the milk is as much as possible, but obviously, these figures I'm talking about haven't produced any results. In 2004, therefore, the incentives in agriculture were 2 billion, now in 2011, which we are talking about 4 billion, twice as big. Well, probably in the dairy industry, but we don't see twice as much production. But here's what I'm talking about, I don't know what you're talking about, you're saying it by heart, I'm on that side, expecting maybe this is your question, you've prepared the data. Therefore, these are facts. Of course, we need to make our agricultural sector competitive and we need to encourage it, we need to encourage those who will be able to produce as much milk with this support as possible, but let's forget that with 5 cows or 2 cows can live and with the support of living well, can't simply live. Why? Well, not because no, because someone doesn't want it, because this government doesn't want it or the SDP doesn't want it, because it's not economic logic, because nowhere in Europe can't do it, but with 15 or 20 cows, you can already live, if of course they're not credit-loaded, if they didn't take loans and build houses with that money. Therefore, to encourage that but to look for adequate results for it, not because we want to, but because we will have to like it in a few months or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30863	Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30864	Thank you very much. A colleague Jelusic has never imported food in Croatia's history. Tell me whether this part of Croatia imported food during the Austro-Hungarian period, it did not. He had enough food, food production was quite enough in all agricultural areas of the Republic of Croatia to meet the needs of the population of Croatia. You're here talking about importing food almost as something, as a need. Thus, during HDZ, they even stimulated food imports, meat imports, meat imports, meat imports, meat importers were supported. Mr. Milinkovic, you know it better. But you were wonderful, almost two-thirds of your speech on agriculture, so I'm surprised that you were the Mayor of Zagreb at all, and you were supposed to be the Deputy Minister or Minister of Agriculture because you spoke excellently about improving agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. So when you've already spoken and admired it as they say in Slavonia, I'm surprised you didn't help farmers, that government of yours, this current one with the legalization of agricultural facilities for some kind of minimal, or how to say, or as they say about the kuna. No, your government will skin them, peel their skin by legalizing all agricultural facilities, it's waiting for them now. Although legalized facilities are shown, so they refer to the EU as farms, pigs and all other facilities that could then be withdrawn, they will not be able to do so because they do not have 80,000 kuna to legalise a farm of 300 square metres. So what do we get? We won't be able to withdraw those projected funds that we're talking so much about to amount to 11.7 billion euros, not in that agricultural package, or as the envelope says, we won't be able to use. Why, because you're irresponsible and irresponsible and you don't run agriculture policy properly, that's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30865	And now please tell me, colleague Grubisic, how did you come in the replica to support the legalization of the facilities? That's not what my colleague Jelusic was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30866	Here, I'll only say if I may. Well, you said to ask me to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30867	No, no, it's just not in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. The reply to the replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30868	Of course, my colleague Grubisic, I don't want to talk about what's not the subject. Thank you for saying that I was wonderful.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30869	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30870	Yeah, thanks again. But I am, apart from what you say beautifully I've been telling the truth and the arguments. Unlike those of you who aren't, I'm not going to say that you were wonderful, but you weren't telling the truth. Which part? You said I advocated how these, as well as these previous HDZ Governments for importing agricultural products, save God, I never said that. You, I don't know, you didn't listen to what I said, save God I was just complaining about it and saying that the tragic situation, how and with so much support we don't have enough food and we don't produce ourselves. So you're obviously prepared in advance for what you're going to say, no matter what I say, like when he goes to his deaf friend and he says, "How are you?" And he's going to say well, and I'm going to say thank God, and this one says when he comes, this one says no, and this one says thank God. So, about that replica of yours on my exposure to that looks like it. You're pre-prepared for what you're gonna say no matter what I say. So I said and I'm standing on it again, unfortunately we don't produce enough food and for our own purposes, it's a sad fact because it's the result of the agricultural policies we've had for years, and we want to, and we need to change. Of course, with the support of the state, and with the support of the EU, but also with support that will result in greater production, greater quantity, not with the support that they once or in the good part so far have been going not to make more production, but to buy someone's voice, but to talk to someone, to be beautiful, and what tomorrow will happen to agriculture, what tomorrow will be with the country for those who are more responsible. Well, thank God we've come to be more responsible for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30871	And Jozo Radosh, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30872	Well, I agree with most of it, with almost everything that my colleague Jelusic said, but here I am using this as an institute to actually correct an incorrect quote, i.e. an inaccurate quote. He said the EU's multiannual financial framework was adopted, however it was adopted only on the EU Council, and the document is being brought into the so-called. Consensual procedures, which means that they are subject to the European Parliament's confirmation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30873	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30874	Madam Vice President, Mrs. Spevec and colleagues and colleagues. This report looks a little like it, and there's been a report on the work of the State Audit. It finds very useful things, has even the instruments to point to some negativity, but then nothing actually happens. So we have to keep that in mind, but the fact that we have a single body that is, apart from doing its job, it's recording a very important area and we have this information that we don't know how to use yet. It is the same already, it can be the basis on which we may be able to improve the situation in the Croatian economy. This is an extremely important report because out of the 130 billion kuna of the state budget, this 9 may be the most important because they open up space for development, space for politics, the other hundreds of billions of kuna are spent more or less on maintaining some systems where you have no ability to create an economic life such as the pension system, health system, wages, education system etc. So this 9 billion is not 7.5% but I don't know some 75% of what the government or government has in their hands to create economic life. That is why this report is even more important than this figure of 7.5% of the state budget. This report has one major flaw, which is that it does not cover or almost does not cover half of the support, which is support in agriculture and fisheries due to some legal provisions, demarcation, the Agency's competences, etc. And that's certainly not good. One report which would show more detailed support in agriculture and fisheries with assessments, in particular with an assessment of the effectiveness or effectiveness of these support, would be very welcome to the Croatian Assembly and should see what legal obstacles the Agency is to submit such a report, or that the competent authorities are indeed providing all the information and that it can, with their information, provide its assessments which would then speak of the effectiveness of these support, because it is therefore half of the support and as we can see this trend, the share of support for agriculture and fisheries in total support is growing and not falling. For the assessment of our economy's situation, it is enough just to say that, compared to 90% of the support provided by sectoral support in the countries of the EU in Croatia, the relationship is actually completely opposite. In our case, 90% of the support can be so harshly said is actually sectoral support. Why? Because when we add to this half-and-half billion support to industry and services to agricultural support and support to fisheries that are also sectoral support de facto, then the share of horizontal support, these desirable support, is like good and bad cholesterol, Mr. Doctor, then the share of these poor support accounts for 90%, these are sectoral support, while in Europe it is exactly the opposite, the horizontal support is 90%, and this is very clear where we are actually with our support. This is what the agency is talking about, and it is said that a model of monitoring the effects of the aid granted is established, but it is only a sign of that model, this model is by no means yet a model that would satisfy and this model should be developed and should be the most important part of this report that would valorise and evaluate how these support has been used. There are two reasons why it's not like that, why it's not still a developed and good model. The first is that the support providers do not provide materials, one part is not possible to see reports which part of the support provider at the request of the Agency in accordance with the law which obliges them to deliver the materials to the Agency, and did not deliver those materials to the Agency. It's the same situation as in the State Audit. The state audit to give orders but these orders are completely disregarded, escipated, and there is nothing and there are no sanctions and that should, of course, be corrected in the future. And the other lack of this model of evaluation is that these support providers themselves assess their effectiveness that doesn't really make any sense. Of course, each support provider will assess that the support it has given is good because it would then assess itself by a negative assessment, so indeed all of these 15 have all given themselves positive assessments and said that the support has given a positive impact, and the agency states in the report that there should actually be much more objective indicators of the positive effects of these aids such as increasing employment, increasing exports. In agriculture, this would be an increase in the size of land, an increase in production, an increase in the number of or quantities of irrigated land, an increase in permanent plantations, an increase in quality, technology, organic food, which would then bring more production in the perspective of course and more profit. But this will not be given by the manufacturer, the one who used the support, the support provider, he will always assess the partial support in a positive way because it assesses itself, but must give it to an independent institution either using data from the Statistical Institute of the Republic of Croatia or any other data that the agency may have or may have. So this model certainly needs to be developed. What we have here is just a mere hint of a bureaucratic sign of that model, without its actual quality. So the support for agriculture last year grew by 3% of agriculture and fisheries during the crisis. These support growth in 3% and could probably be from the economic movement issued by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in Statistical Data of the Croatian Statistics Institute, if 3% of the increase is not a small amount at the annual level, whether it led to an increase in production, whether it led to an increase in the coverage of imports with exports that, as you know, are tragic in Croatian agriculture, there is no such data. These data even if they were not provided by the support provider, and this is the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry can also place the agency itself and probably there are legal opportunities for it to do so, but if there is no law to change so that once a year this highest representative home in the Republic of Croatia has information on where and how this gold money is spent. It is the only money that is open to the creation of economic policy and whose consumption per difolt is no longer defined where you can only rationalize. Here you can really direct and thus, of course, create the country's economic policy. And that is why it would be good for it to be a full report to include both agriculture and fisheries but also to develop this mechanism of assessing the effectiveness of state aid. Since this report for 2011 has already slowly moved away that, of course, there is no point in going into some big political debate about it other than these principle debates to improve the report, the HNS Representatives' Club will accept this annual report on Mr Shucker's appeal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30875	Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30876	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, Rados, I agree with you that it would be good except for this numbered support data to be a good efficiency analysis, so it wouldn't go with these flat-rate estimates that the support in agriculture was the purpose of buying her votes. And I will remind you that your Kukuriku coalition in the last elections in these rural areas has received very significant support from the number of votes. It's because they're banging on the head right now what they've done. And now you're comparing it to cholesterol with the disease that's good and bad cholesterol. Thank you for teaching me. I know what one does, and I know what the rate of mortality of cardiovascular diseases is as a result of cholesterol, but I want to tell you the same thing when we are in that medical termology that what is happening now in Croatian agriculture is a cancer colleague Radoš. Because the days are failing, and the number of unemployed is growing, there are more than 370,000 for the result. Many who fail the OPGs end up at the Employment Service. And the other thing, agriculture is that kind of production can't be raised overnight, it rises for years. Well, that herd's been rising for years, when a cow ends up on a forced slaughter, then it takes a year 30 and a few thousand of them are finished, it takes years to increase again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30877	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30878	Here I was following Mr. Shucker's instructions or appeal but his party colleague did not, he entered into a difficult politicisation of this topic by making very difficult assessments, not giving at all the opportunity to possibly show the results of any measures. He is talking about reducing support by 2 billion, and total support is 4.5 billion. The agency estimates a reduction in aid for 2012 between 6 and 10%, which would be about 300 to 400 million kuna, so one 5 to 6 times less than what you're saying. We'll see about that. The situation is absolutely not good, but it certainly isn't as you say it is. But it is largely... from the heavy heritage and permanent destruction of Croatian agriculture in the last 8 years of HDZ rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30879	It is the HDSSB and counterpart Boro Grubisic's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30880	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Gentlemen from the agency. And my colleague Milinkovic, I'd like to rephrase it to you, but I haven't had a chance and there's no correcting the incorrect assumption. Namely, the misleading data are statistics on the death of cardiovascular diseases. And I, when I had a patient who died of complications after a hip fracture, wrote cause of death arrest cardioles, cardiac arrest. Everyone dies of cardiac arrest, and then it turns out to be a lot of people dying of it. But our agriculture is also exhale, but here's what we're going to do about the support we're going to get back to the subject. In fact, here I have been objected to in connection with the legalization of agricultural facilities for 1 kuna that this is not the subject of tonight's or today's debate. But you see, when we talk about state aids according to the instruments on page 21 it says that support in 2011 is granted through different instruments or forms, and the most significant instruments are subsidies, tax exemptions, tax exemptions and contributions and reliefs, equity shares, more favourable loans, state guarantees. Is there a place exactly what I'm talking about, so forgiveness for the legalization of agricultural facilities? There is, in what is now said and what is written here on page 21 of this document. Therefore, let us not say this, it can be done if it is in good faith and if it wants to be good for our Croatian agriculture. That factoring the efficiency that was apostrophe of fellow Rados and that user himself gives the appraisal of exploitation, so the appraisal of the use of the funds he received, that's really funny. There really should be some kind of independent institution, some kind of independent I won't tell the agency, anything that would assess the usefulness and use of funds to improve our economy and its competitiveness. I stress, for its competitiveness compared to that, because we are entering hope on July 1st if these amendments that Alojz Peterle and the company propose pass, which are now setting us up at the European Parliament or the Committee on Foreign Policy, where Mr Peterle has put amendments not to enter Croatia into the European Union, but this is not the topic. So on agriculture and incentives, or aids that amounted to 4 billion and 125 million, it is now that in the kuna and in the lip, not the target, 4 billion and 125 million kuna. When we talk about this, about this usability and our Croatian agriculture, we need to know that we have reached 900 million liters of milk in the dairy industry, Mr Jelusic. 900 million liters in 2009. After that, there was a fall in milk production. Why, these are now analyses or breakdowns that should be analysed and whether this is related to the quotas that Croatia has signed, and we still do not know them in connection with the accession of the European Union. We in Croatia have not yet developed the Strategy for Agricultural Production of the Republic of Croatia, and we support it. We don't have the seed structure yet. Where this area is and what areas are suitable for production, according to Jelusic wheat, and where there is something else, where livestock is preferred. We still don't have such strategies, and they're being supported. They're being supported, so I'd say let's make sure they're there. The theory that we wouldn't have imported, how he found out a colleague, not to say we're dead, so that's really funny. Or, as we would say the other day for six months, it was defined here the other day that Croatia would last 6 months if there were no imports, followed by hunger in Croatia. It's a disastrous statement that's been made here. In Europe, it is true that sectoral support is 10% and that it is 90% horizontal. We have reached 25, 26% of horizontal support, and the rest are sectoral support. Why is it that, if we are to say, we have hypnotised this horizontal support, and we have just deliberately pushed it into sectoral support, or was it necessary to support mainly agriculture and others to survive and be competitive in Europe through sectoral support. So our agriculture had to reach technologically and in any other way reach the producer in Europe, so he was given structural support for it. Have we reached such a degree to give up these aids or to reduce them by let's say Mr. Radoš 300, 400 million, and on the other hand, we from the HDZB think it's much more, that it is actually support from over a billion kuna for Croatian agriculture. It's now an evaluation and an assessment of the ruling, that's on them. I don't think we've yet reached such a degree in agriculture that we can cut down as much support as they cut in here. It would be good if we had a report from the Competition Protection Agency for 2012 as well. Then we'd like to compare this report for 2011 which is actually old and almost gratuitous because we don't have anything to say, the facts here are very well laid out, professionally, technically well written all together. So we would then actually compare all of these tables that are perfectly stacked here with the 2012 support results. And what I particularly wanted to highlight, and what is seen from these tables of numerous, transparent and excellent tables, technically well done, is that the distribution of support to, for the first time, was done towards the regions. These NUTS-2 regions are still in the form in which the Government of Ivo Sanader or HDZ designated them, so three regions for 2011. I guess there'll be two regions now, I don't know, but we'll fight to make it five. So when you look at these tables on page 69, then you see that so-called Pannonian Croatia, Ivo Sanader did not like the word Slavonia and Baranja as well as many on this HDZ side, but rather called it Pannonian Croatia and Eastern Croatia, respectively, in the brackets of Pannonian Croatia, which consisted of five Slavonian counties plus Karlovac, Bjelovar-Bilogorska and Sisak-Moslavina County. It's eight counties, they have or have 30.5% of the population. Supports in that region amounted to 20% on page 73. 950 million is 20%. At the same time, so the Adriatic Croatia, which has a million and 427 000 inhabitants, so 32% of the population came to support it 46%, while in northwestern Croatia, which has 37.38% of the support population came to 34%. Now you tell me if we were right to discuss regionalisation the other day, a different statistical division of Croatia and whether it will also reflect if it is not a topic, this new division into continental and Adriatic Croatia, to withdraw funds from European funds. It will. Because even now that they've shared our funds through the agency, it's also been to say no discrimination against the regions. She was. You see by these means, according to your charts you published here. So Slavonia and Baranja, 5 Slavonia-Baranja counties as well as Karlovac, Sisak and Bjelovar-Bilogorska were cut off. It's a good thing that for the first time it's been published here, a plate that clearly shows it and sees it clearly. It is also clear from the reductions in these aids that followed already in 2012 and will continue, that the farm that is on its knees, which is in fact semi-destructed, will be powerless to withdraw what should be offset by the support funds, which are European funds. Croatian agriculture will not be able to withdraw those funds. Well, they won't be able to if 150,000 agricultural facilities are standing, not legalized, and in order to even participate in any grant to withdraw funds, you have to have clean papers or as they say in the Bosni Chaga. So, and what's first is that you own an object, that the object is legal, that it has a building permit, that I'm not talking about a nitrate directive. On this point, Jozo will know what it means, and this means building a space for manure and saw, etc. What did you say? Pussy, that's right, bravo. It's a Croatian term "breathing." Now, therefore, it costs a lot to do by European standards. Which of the farmers, farmers will be able to invest 80 to 100,000 kunas for legalisation, respect for the Nitrate Directive, some 100 or 200000 more and only then run towards EU structural or cohesion funds. It's not that, it's going to be difficult to power that, apart from maybe those who've been supported at such a large amount as Agrokor, etc. So what do we get? Indeed, the devastation of Croatian villages. Now, look, I'm not just talking about my Slavonia, the Stroshins in the east, the far east of Croatia, the Black Village, the Surjevica, I could list them dozens of abandoned villages with one or two grandmothers or dids living in that village still with one cow and a dozen chickens. They're working, Mr. Jelusic, no matter what you think they can't live. I can live, I can live. Lived on a Austrian-Hungarian cow, behind the old Yugoslavia. You've got milk, you've got veal, you've got meat and potatoes, and you've got good. I'm not saying it's some standard. But it survived. So when we talk about horizontal support it's nice to talk about them and see that it's just, but it's not nice to see that only 26 as much as I read millions of kunas invested to increase energy efficiency where the support was. And right in the European Parliament again, I quote my colleague, Radosa, is having a heated and long-term discussion of energy efficiency as one of those of Plan 20, 20, 20 as one fundamental element, a fundamental principle or a beginning of whatever it is you want me to say not to say development or extraction from the EU-wide crisis. Here we have this support for these purposes, €26 million of $9 billion, the total amount of support with agricultural aid. The other day we discussed small and medium-sized enterprises, and the basis of the HAMAG report, the Croatian Agency for Small and Medium Economy. And there we saw the same and we also discussed the support that followed through the agency called HAMAG, which is one of the donors, whether as mentioned here, one of the support providers and through which support for small and medium enterprises went. I would like it in this sense, and I think that is also part of horizontal support, so according to small and medium-sized innovations, etc., and also cultural content to be of greater support. But this government, too, will soon see that in any way it called this horizontal or structural support, will have to pay a little more attention to agriculture and support. Because if fairies and other tools and tractors get up on the road, and they're already starting to do no good for anyone. We won't sit here quietly in Parliament either, and this government won't have peace for sure either. It is clear that only the report as a report is acceptable and for the HDSSB Club will not mind raising the hand for this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30881	Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30882	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you can see how statistics can be interpreted differently, and even with these health indicators that we know about, we can look a little bit more with different glasses to say so. But since we're talking about support here, you've been talking about the possibility of using support, we've talked about efficiency and monitoring today, and you've made it very clear how much of the legalization of the facilities and the possibility of contributing to that part with the support. But you know what's going on today? Besides being drastically cut, we're witnesses to it, we can't be blind to it, except that they're messy, which is a mess, they don't pay off. And you know what else happened? They became the subject of the occasion. ... They didn't get it, I have some information about 6 grand because they're done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a simple problem, too. And in that part of it, and we can see it that way. But you also talked about the harmfulness of imports. So, absolutely, imports are harmful and catastrophic and particularly if they are this unquality milk, for example. imports and then blends in on our dairy and comes up with a variety of problems. If that meat is imported to which time limit is of course already on the way out, it certainly cannot contribute. But often there's a repeat here of that moment of coverage of imports by export. I want to underline here that we are a tourist country, that we are making significant means of tourism, and in that part, surely food as such certainly makes a lot of it. And there are great opportunities in that part of the food production and that agriculture should be accepted as a strategic branch, and so far we do not have any of that strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30883	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30884	If my colleague Milinkovic really did, I'd say extremely naughty or maligningly that some people like to say that in a domestic milk producer you're looking for the culprit for... I don't know what to say, some say alpha some aflata toxins M1 in milk, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what they're called because I don't know whether television's in an excuse or not. So it's really very bad to immediately transfer it to a domestic peasant. Very interesting. So, with that very statement, it's as if it's right for the importer. And the fact that meat is imported even during your minister who was a year old and frozen at -42 degrees, we don't need to talk about it. I hope after 1 July we have more quality meat whose deadline will be the end date of use for 6 months, right? Until then, Agrokor and other importers who dry Bulgarian pork down in Dalmatia are clearly affected and say here is the Dalmatian prosciutto.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30885	Jozo Radosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30886	Col. Grubisic is important how support is used, and not only is their absolute amount important. Our sectoral support can also be used horizontally. This means that for everyone in the sector, the same and the basis for changing the business circumstances of the sector. These would be some kind of horizontal support in the sector, but this has not happened with us, and we have sectoral support for our own interest groups and are not actually creating conditions and foundations for the development of agricultural production. That's our problem, because we don't even have a real horizontal approach in sectoral support. And if that were the case, I happen to have here an answer to my representative's question, colleague Gjurdice Sumrak, which speaks therefore of the State Statistics Office's data on the tragic situation in the area of pig production. From 2005 to 2011 the number of breeders in the Republic of Croatia fell from 161 thousand to 109 thousand, almost one third despite the possibility of support and creating conditions. And so Croatia's large farmers of pigs now because this reduced number of sows and the inability to obtain quality detachments are now being addressed to imports of detachments more and more. And there is growing imports of detachments into Croatia of these small ones, where pig production is then further developed. It's tragic data, it's politics and false support. Of course, you won't be able to hear this from your colleague Milinkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30887	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30888	I read the budget of my colleague Radoš, so the 2009 or 2010 budget book, thank God I was a parliamentary representative, and in this budget I saw that the support for pig farming, my colleague Radoš listen well, the support for pig husbandry was 34 million kuna. And the support for the development of the tobacco industry and the production of tobacco was 68 million kuna. So, twice as much support for tobacco cultivation as for pig breeding. So what we could expect, then, in that sense, is a decline in the production of pigmeat and a fall as you say fertilized sows and not only sows, but also sows from 161 thousand to 109. And as far as sectoral support itself is concerned, the problem is exactly what you were saying, in control of the use of these funds. So, if neither you nor I, I hope no one here is for the abuse of those support. That was the problem, the abuse of support. If they weren't there, it'd be much better for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30889	And Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30890	You said your colleague Grubisic could live off a cow in the country, so of course he can. You don't have to tell me that, I know that. Well, I have families, too, in a wider family of people who live like that. But, livers, that's not what the village should look like, that's not what's interesting to their children, their grandchildren. We differ in terms of this, so I am in favour of that that the Croatian village and everyone who deals with agriculture can be a serious producer, can compete tomorrow for manufacturers, much more serious ones from the EU, on whose market we will be on in 2.3 months. And you're saying this to the others. So I am for this Slavonia and Baranja, which is often in your mouth, to be developed a region that will be able to deal with Europe, not to be undeveloped in Croatia, let alone in Europe as you clearly see it, because that is how you stand for it. You said that Slavonia and Baranja were cut off, they were, they were cut off, especially because for 15 years they've been tied to HDZ and their rhetoric, and now you're offering themselves as an alternative, they're really cut off. But we offer Slavonia and Baranja to really train them for the game market, including the village in Slavonia and Baranja to be ready because that's why we don't educate them, in that sense we help them and not about being able to live with a cow and support. The village should be assisted by social programs and old households, not by support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30891	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30892	Thank you very much. Mr Jelusic was therefore also in the 5th electoral unit and lives in Zagreb, I guess he escaped because it was nice to live in Slavonia, so the secretary-general of the SDP lives, but I won't name a man. So, not to be, but I wanted to tell you that maybe those people that you're pointing out and you think they're poor, maybe they live happier than all of us here and including you, including, including, right. Thus, the way of life and what is material does not always mean happiness. So what's on a high level of some sort of material. Of course, the peasant and all those living in the country expect infrastructure and standard to have a bathroom, to have a bath, to have everything, that he can live in the country and in the city. That's also the goal, I believe, and the support that is given here and here in this topic, is what tonight is about. Therefore, in this case, in the case of these horizontal support, which includes regional support, so to improve the quality of life in the region and in the country. In any case, it would help to keep people in the country, to live in the country because it is more beautiful, many of us are more comfortable living in the country, and so do many of us on weekends to go to the country to enjoy it, not to make it worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30893	And the final word of the President of the Council, Mrs. Olga Spevec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30894	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, in these late hours I would just actually explain three things that were actually being asked as a question or as a problem here all the time. Question number one is a question of the time of delivery of this report, its inadequacy since it is 2011 and we are already in 2013 etc. So, the report, as you've all observed, is based on the data provided by the support providers. Unfortunately, we do not have the authority to make them deliver this report by the deadlines we give, but there is one good news, which is that such reports will have to come to the European Commission by 30.6. next year for the previous year, so I guess the European Commission's authority will be stronger than the Agency's authority. So the future reports will, from 2013 onwards, be quite certain to come to this high house sooner than they are now coming. What makes this report and the previous 9 really irrelevant when they come is the fact that a lot of things don't change. So, you can analyze the 2012 report today, 2011, and you will see that there are no significant shifts. Sectoral support is mostly dominant, 2.3% up or down, and there is no change in policies that would now be so important that it is important that the report is delivered on some deadline that would still be a little closer to the year in question. From that point of view, I say the good news is that these reports will come early in the future because the European Commission regulation says so, and I guess that's stronger than a small weak agency that no one listens to. The second question is, of course, support for agriculture and efficiency. In the introduction, I said the report was drawn up according to the EU methodology. So, as far as efficiency goes, the EU does not talk about efficiency in its reports. So it's important to know. Agriculture is not part of the State aid policy for which the Agency is responsible in accordance with the State aid Act, even that law stipulates that the authority responsible for the support in agriculture is cooperating with the Agency. So we absolutely cannot give that body that is responsible for agriculture to determine how it will provide us with support data, but it delivers what it can. So, it's up to you to make a new law that out of this, therefore as a legislator, that, if you change it and make these reports better, better, that all those who have received support in agriculture are seen inside, and what's important is that taxpayers' funds should not be secret. Therefore, taxpayers' funds that go to support or agriculture, or industry, or any other sector, must be made public, publicised and there are no secrets there. This is the EU's policy. So, from that point of view, definitely in any parliamentary issue or anywhere where data can certainly be found on how much support is given to and in agriculture, but also in other sectors. Because if we had written in this report how much support was given to each user, it would have had one 500 pages, because you have the Ministry of Economy programs, and that's also the government's remark that we haven't included 100 and some of the users of state aid that only received these support under one programme. So, I ask you, however, to keep in mind what the purpose of this report is, to show, to point to trends, to point to policies and where they lead. The numbers are a little less important here. And efficiency as I said, efficiency is also not a matter of agency, the effectiveness of support is a matter of supporter. The support provider must know why it gives money, which is the objective, what is the purpose and what are the results. We didn't process it here that just for the intervention last year, Mr. Radoš to show that it's simply something that goes into some other reports, other Member States that do, so the donors hire independent auditors who, without any problem for any kind of money, actually do an independent analysis, give the support they gave, go in the right direction and for the right purposes. Therefore, even the following reports from the agency cannot expect it to be the one with its 6 people working on support to pass by each provider and see, respectively, the support user and see where that money went. So I just thought it was necessary at the end and explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30895	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later and we'll interrupt the session. Tomorrow at 9:30 we begin with the Final Proposal for a Law on materials and objects that come in direct contact with food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-12-0.u30896	Annual State aid report for 2011. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - the Annual Report on State aid for 2011 is accepted. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion accepted by most votes, 115 votes in favour and five abstentions. Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament of the 7th session. I suggest we continue to work on the established agenda and unite points 5, 6, 7 and 8, it's about harmonising the laws of the same matter. There's been some consultations inside the clubs. No objections to such a proposal? ... Until 15. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I suggest. - Final proposal of the Law on Materials and Objects that come in direct contact with food, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 273, - Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 648/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on detergents, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 268, - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 689/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 267, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 277 The United Debate. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill's proposals in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final proposals for legislation was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Environment and Nature. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia wish to further explain the proposals? Yeah. Dear Marian Cesarik Deputy Minister of Health of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
