ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38244	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we continue with the 8th session and that - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on forest reproductive material, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 331. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the proposer, the introduction law will be explained by Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38245	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Law on forest reproductive material. The recent accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union imposes the need for final technical adaptation of national legislation in the field of forest reproductive material. Amendments to the Law on forest reproductive material are proposed in order to fully comply with Council Directive 199/105EC concerning the placing on the market of forest reproductive material. The production of forest reproductive material in the Republic of Croatia is a significant economic activity which has not been followed by legal regulations in line with the requirements of the European market for many years. The adoption and application of the 2005 Forest Reproductive Material Act, and the 2009 2009 improvement of this important activity in the area of forestry, allowed suppliers to place forest reproductive material on the market, with an appropriate quality process and relevant documentation. It should be pointed out that at the end of 2008, the Republic of Croatia was admitted to full membership in the OECD forest skin for certification of forest reproductive material placed on international markets, which created a new moment in this segment, which is that the foundations and open possibilities are created for forest reproductive material to be produced in the Republic of Croatia, while meeting certain preconditions can be uninterrupted and under the same criteria that apply to suppliers from these markets to the EU, North America and other OECD Member States. The 2009 Law on forest reproductive material created a clear and simplified framework for the production and placing on the market of forest reproductive material, which provides the opportunity to create new jobs in this sector and thus increase its contribution to the entire Croatian economy. Furthermore, that law has been developed to meet the need for further regulation of production, placing on the market and importing forest reproductive material, and to regulate the production and placing on the market of Christmas trees. As far as possible at that time, the law is in line with Directive 199/105 in question on the placing on the market of forest reproductive material and on the basis of the regulations and decisions adopted therein. That law provides for the production, placing on the market and importing of quality and habitat-adapted forest reproductive material which enables the sustainable and optimal management of forest eco-systems and their renewal in accordance with the principles of the protection of forest genetic resources. The above-mentioned law on this economic activity gives a clear framework and rules which, in the context of negative impacts on forests, wish to enable the highest possible quality of restoration of forest ingredients and the preservation of biodiversity wealth. These changes primarily concern imports of forest reproductive material, i.e. the fact that, after joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia becomes part of the single market and no more imports from EU Member States are already being introduced. Following the above, the need to issue an authorisation for imports of forest reproductive material from EU Member States is lifted. Furthermore, more significant changes relate to the recognition of the equivalent validity of forest reproductive material. Since the date of EU accession, the Republic of Croatia is no longer able to decide independently on the recognition of the equivalent validity of forest reproductive material from third countries, but the same validity is determined by the Council of the EU. Exceptionally, the European Commission may authorise Member States to decide on the equivalent validity of certain properties of forest reproductive material from certain countries. In this sense, the Republic of Croatia becomes a full share of the common market without any restrictions. Of the other changes in the area of harmonisation with the EU acquis, we point out that, following the EU's accession, the ban on the placing on the market of forest reproductive material which is found to have an adverse impact on the environment and human health brings the European Commission, at the request of a Member State, and not more than a ministry responsible for forestry affairs. From changes of national character, we highlight changes in the infringement provisions prescribed for certain offences in slightly lower amounts of penalties than those so far. Also, this amendment of the law adds to the wording. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38246	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Zoran Vasic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38247	Thank you. Dear vice president, respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Therefore, this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on forest reproductive material regulates the production, placing on the market and importing of forest reproductive material, production and import of Christmas trees, the conditions to be met by suppliers of forest reproductive material and suppliers of Christmas trees in the process of enrolment in the registers, the establishment and use of seed reserves, the genetic and seed banks of their forest trees and the like. The amendments and additions to this law primarily relate to imports of forest reproductive material, i.e. the fact that, after EU accession, the Republic of Croatia becomes part of the single market and is no longer as the minister said imports from the Member States of the European Union have already introduced a new term and that is to move. Other amendments relate to the recognition of the equivalent validity of forest reproductive material, which is determined by the Council of the European Union after accession. And an extremely European Commission may authorise Member States to make decisions on the equivalent validity of certain properties of forest reproductive material from certain countries. And actually on the subject of this Bill's proposal, I would like to point out that just these days in the Republic of Croatia, in particular, at the Croatian Forest Institute in Jastrebarska, a very important thing happened, a seed conservatory opened. And in fact, the purpose of the seed savings plant is to preserve the genofonds of important forest species, as well as to prevent the lack of seeds intended to grow the seedlings needed for sustainable forest management. Seed reserves are used to produce fruit material intended for the biological restoration of forests. The project itself is extremely important for the forestry and agriculture of the Republic of Croatia in line with the guidelines of the European Union that regulate this problem. I will only remind myself that the oak tree as the most valuable species of trees in our forests is, unfortunately, born abundantly only every 5 to 7 years, and thus the real problem of the lack, continuous and quality crop, or the establishment of this seed-saving plant is seen. It should be pointed out that according to the law of production control, placing on the market and quality of forest reproductive material and in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Forest Institute in Jastrebarska and, of course, under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture. Otherwise, because of the significant forest wealth with which the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian forests, above all, also the forest owners have a special role to play, of course forest management. Forest seeding and deforestation are an important component of forest management. Unfortunately, a number of negative, primarily different phenomena such as the drying of forests, such as the loss of forests after the fire, attacks by various pests, strong winds, and unfortunately in recent times changed climate conditions have also affected the need to improve forest seed production with the aim of improving plantation and culture and plantation. Next, they were founded in the Republic of Croatia of the clone seed plantation of the most important indigenous species of forest trees, 18 of them as well as 140 registered recognised seed ingredients, all for the continuous and quality production of forest seeds. It should also be pointed out that in the Republic of Croatia there are 47 breeders registered for the production of forest reproductive material which is a leaf, which is a brush. And finally, I would like to point out that, since Croatia is 95% of natural forests, unlike the good part of the European forests, which are primarily artificially raised and dominated by monoculture. And the result is, above all, the work and knowledge of Croatian foresters as well as respect for the laws and rules in forestry. And that's where this bill goes. Following this, the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38248	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Col. Franjo Lucic
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38249	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The amendments and additions to this Law on forest reproductive material are essentially not experiencing any specific changes but certainly the adjustment of Croatia's entry into the European Union, I forgot to welcome the Minister, so I welcome him. So, the Law on forest reproductive material was established in 2009 and the system of accompanying documentation for all forest reproductive material was created and the basis for monitoring... the source until the point of final use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The adoption of this law established order on the forest reproductive material market with the primary objective of direct influence on Croatian forestry and the restoration of the forest fund. With the recent accession, as I said to the Republic of Croatia, the same law is necessary and harmonised, it is necessary to bring it into line with both the market and all that reproductive material and with the primary goal of direct influence on Croatian forestry and the restoration of the forest fund. At the time of accession of the Republic of Croatia, it will become part of the single market, which means that the need to issue an authorisation for importing forest reproductive material as it has been from the Member States so far. Therefore, the term for moving forest reproductive material is introduced. The concept of importing forest reproductive material is retained for the area of sale or delivery of forest reproductive material for third countries. That's it. all non-member countries of the European Union. The proposal for a law extends the conditions to be met by forest reproductive material placed on the market in such a way that forest reproductive material other than the conditions laid down in the law and rules on plant health must also meet specific regulations governing the protection of nature. In addition to that, it shall be given jurisdiction to the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the protection of nature for granting consent to scientific and scientific teaching institutions to import in limited quantities seed material and plant parts or fruit material of forest properties and crosses which do not satisfy the conditions for placing on the market. And which is intended for testing and research, scientific work, selection, processing or preservation of forest genetic sources. Furthermore, amendments to the law prohibit the placing on the market of certain forest reproductive material should it be established that its use may have an adverse effect. On the date of accession, the authorisation for the recognition of the equivalent validity of forest reproductive material shall be determined by the Council of the European Union. In the absence of forest reproductive material caused by the threat of end-users, the European Commission may authorise the Member States and the Republic of Croatia to make decisions on the equivalent validity of certain properties of forest reproductive material which do not meet all the conditions of placing on the market under certain law. The issuing of the main certificate of the identity of forest reproductive material from the same forest seed facility shall be issued by the official body and the proposal for a law shall determine that the certificate shall be issued after the completion of the collection. The form and packaging shall be prescribed, therefore closed packaging of which the closing method is such that it is not possible to reuse after the opening of the packaging for the same purpose that seed material can be placed on the market, as well as the conditions of use of forest reproductive material in the case of its import or relocation. The Ministry's obligation to make a national list of forest seed facilities is prescribed. As regards the international exchange of information and information, the draft law provides for the obligation of the competent minister to adopt a regulation on the procedure for issuing an information document. A circle of persons who may be members of the Board of Appeals who decide to appeal against the solution of forest inspectors in such a way that members of the commission other than forestry engineers, engineers and all members may be masters of urban forestry, nature protection and the environment if they meet the condition of 5 years of working experience in the central body of the state administration in the affairs of forest inspection. The HDZ Club will support these amendments and the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38250	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Milorad Batinic, vice president of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38251	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, Croatian forestry has a long tradition not only of forest professions but also of all that is related to forestry, as well as of politics and reproductive material. In fact, it should be recalled that just now long-standing members of the European Union have hit Croatia's foundations and forestry in some way, and so the profession and practice have been doing so for many decades. I am the Law on forest reproductive material that was passed in '09, by amendments '11. the production, placing on the market and importing of forest reproductive material, production and what may be interesting in the economic part, importing Christmas trees, conditions that suppliers must satisfy, registration procedures, registration procedures for forest seed facilities in the Register of forest seed facilities and a number of other things which in some way define and regulate that topic. The law itself initially regulated certain things that were not fully defined in a positive way so that we can say that it acted positively on the market for forest reproductive material, as well as Croatian forestry as a whole. He strengthened the supervision of forest seed facilities and the production of forest reproductive material itself. The establishment of a system of accompanying documentation for all forest reproductive material laid the basis for monitoring it and from its source in forest seed to end-user. Some of the provisions were only partially harmonised so that these amendments were made and that the last thing that was to be done was the technical harmonisation. The basic issues, as mentioned in the introduction, of this amendment and the addition of the Law on forest reproductive material are proposed in order to fully comply with the European Union Directive placed on the market of forest reproductive material. And what I think is extremely important for both Croatian forestry and all those involved in the production of Christmas trees, the wasteland production, introduces a completely new term of relocation, Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. More significant changes also concern the recognition of the equivalent validity of forest reproductive material, which is determined by the Council of the European Union upon accession, and the European Commission may authorise Member States to decide on the equivalent validity of certain properties of forest reproductive material from certain countries. Of course, here, above all, in these amendments and additions, you should see a certain opportunity for the Republic of Croatia, for our reproductive material, for the producers themselves, here I think of the wastelanders owned by the Croatian forests, as well as private devastations. What is, we have witnessed for many years the production of Christmas trees that has escalated in some parts and there have been hyperproductions, certain time periods have been when non-quality material was imported so that I believe that through these changes and additions can also be carried out in a certain and marketable way I would say regulation of certain production. What he may have as a dilemma, a doubt, and reading certain articles, Article 17 speaks of the commission, says it must be composed of members who meet the following conditions. And now paragraph 1, a graduate engineer of agronomy or a graduate engineer of forestry, master engineer... culture, etc. etc. Maybe, I'll allow myself to, as a forester, because it's a forest reproductive material, a forestry profession, I wouldn't want to be preferable to just foresters, but I think even though it's a forest profession to, I suggest that a change be made to be a dipl first. An engineer of forestry, a master of the profession, and only under the last graduate engineer of agronomy. I think you'll understand why I'm saying it, whether it's a slip or maybe it's a discrepancy or maybe it's a maybe, I wouldn't want to read it as a mistrust with the forest industry as far as waste production is concerned because we've had equal colleges with both agronomists and foresters. As far as the other remarks are concerned, I do not have any changes and additions, it is technical harmonisation and the Croatian People's Party's Club will support these amendments and amendments to the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38252	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and Croatian Civil Party counterpart Nevenka Bečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38253	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on forest reproduction material with the Final Proposal for a Law by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has delivered to this Parliament for discussion and adoption. Before I refer to the elements proposed by the amendment and supplementation of this Act, I consider it necessary to note that we in the Republic of Croatia have unfortunately frequent fires, especially in the summer months, resulting in the suffering of huge natural resources and plantation of forest wealth which is of great importance for the ecological system and for human health. As a result of such a suffering of huge forest surfaces, there is a need for shaming the same, and this deforestation can be carried out in two ways. It's either natural or artificial. And since we have to resort to artificial planting, forest, using forest reproductive material for the purpose of restoring so-called forest wealth, there is a fear that in such shops we come into contact with genetically poor forest reproductive material that would have lasting consequences for the environment, our eco-system, for forest plantations, for forest seed facilities and would simply bring immeasurable damage that would not be visible immediately but even after 50 or more years. And that's why our ministry is going to have to pay close attention so that something like this doesn't happen to us. Otherwise, the Law on forest reproduction regulates the production of the same, placing on the market, production and import of forest plants, Christmas trees. It regulates the way and conditions by which suppliers can be entered in the register, regulates the conditions and manner in which forest, seed goods are introduced and recorded in the register of forest seed goods, etc. Since we are soon entering the European Union, it was necessary to comply with the existing legislation of the European Union. And for that purpose and for that purpose, the Government has delivered this proposal to us in the Parliament. By accepting this Law, which, of course, I have no doubt, will be here today, on Friday, we will change some of the terminologys that have been used so far, and that championship I mean the notion of importing forest reproductive material. From the date of Croatia's entry into the European Union, we will not import this forest reproductive material from the Member States but will be moving it from one Member State to another Member State and, of course, it will not be in the customs procedure. But if the need arises to obtain the same reproductive material from a third country, and in third countries those countries that are not members of the European Union are included, then of course, we will have to put such material in the customs procedure and that will be considered imports. What is changed on the date of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and as regards this law is that it will no longer have the opportunity to establish the same validity of forest reproductive material itself, but for us, therefore, for the Republic of Croatia as well as for all the other members of the European Union, the Council of the European Union will do so. And if our ministry feels the need for a particular reproductive material to come out only, that is, to decide on the same validity, then it must request approval from the European Commission for such a thing. What is important is to note, and in connection with this law, that forest reproductive material will be placed on the market in closed packaging in such a way that the opening of such packaging will make the same use impossible. In the event that the Ministry of Agriculture, so the Ministry of Agriculture gets any knowledge that any reproductive forest material we intend to introduce is not acceptable to our needs, then it can make a request to the European Commission which can issue in such situations a ban on importing and placing on the market such forest reproductive material. And this will primarily be done in situations where we estimate that some forest reproductive material can have a harmful effect on forest ingredients, on indigenous species, on forest seed facilities, on the environment, genetic sources and on human health. And in this respect, the responsibility of our Ministry of Agriculture is extremely large. Because we are obliged to guard what nature has given us, and that is also the resource of the forest wealth that we have and which we have. And, in fact, we should create conditions for us to be exporters to third countries of forest reproductive material because the climate in which we live is ideal and has extremely good conditions for us to actually start to apply such a thing because it would be of interest to the good, both for the individual and for the better wider social communities. Therefore, it would be one resource that would encourage individual producers of a natural person also legally that here they can find their own interest in planting and moving forest reproductive material so that they can also export to third countries in EU Member States. So I have already said that the equivalent validity of forest reproductive material is determined by the EU Council. They will, until now, be determined by us in the Republic of Croatia by ourselves, by our ministry. They will establish the same validity of forest reproductive material in such a way as to control and monitor from the exporting country whether the exporting country has legal regulations that control and monitor the production and placing on the market of forest reproductive material, will monitor, control and determine whether such exporting countries apply legal provisions guaranteeing that such material will be continuously monitored and that exports of poor genetic propagating material will not occur. Of course, if that is not the case, then the European Commission will ban such material from being imported. It also provides for the possibility for the Republic of Croatia and other members to ask the European Commission to be authorised to place on the market forest reproductive material which does not meet all conditions for placing markets which are in accordance with this law in exceptional situations if there is no fruit reproductive material, the one the end-user is looking for, so it is not in the field of the Republic of Croatia but is not in the EU members either. And in such situations, of course, the ministry can request approval from the European Commission for import and that material that does not meet all the conditions that we would, under our law, adopt and which we already have. In such situations, such material imported will have to be marked on the declaration that it does not meet all the prescribed conditions, and information on the declaration will need to show what damage and what adverse conditions such forest reproductive material can produce in the future. And the damage, as I said before, occurs not immediately, they are neither visible nor immediately visible, but they will certainly be visible after the course of certain years, about 50 years. And further, today in Croatia, according to my knowledge, we have 163 registered forest seed facilities in which we have indigenous to our forest trees. Here, I believe that our government and our ministry will make every effort to work and implement all those measures that are of interest to preserve our existing forest goods as well as to restore what will be needed in the future, and for the sake of the repeated fires that come from year to year throughout our Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38254	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party of the Work of fellow Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38255	Dear ministers with co-workers, the fact is that this law is really a alignment with EU regulations so there is not much to add, but what I have noticed I will even suggest that you consider if there is a possibility of some changes, or additions. First, in the introductory part of the argument, it is stated that a new term is being introduced which replaces the imports so far, i.e. given the new circumstances, it is no longer the case for imports. However, reading further the text clearly that this term of relocation also applies to exports, so far exports seem to be changing only in one context, but obviously it is not exactly the same, but it relates to both of these activities. What I have been warned by people from this profession is, they propose an amendment in Article 17 relating to Article 40 of the Law, which stipulates that the composition of the commission and in two places is stated to be necessary, that it is about people with 5 years of working experience in the central body of the state administration in the affairs of phytosanitary inspection. However, people who are from this profession, who know this issue, suggest a different formulation, to make it a condition that they have five years of experience in working with seeds and seedlings at the University of Shumar, in the wooded production and the like. The explanation that they state to me sounds pretty logical, but I leave it to the people of the profession to say whether it's really correct or not. The reason is that people have been coming to the state administration recently directly from college, or without experience, and once they enter there is no longer a chance to gain what practical experience is necessary in the work. It happens that they decide things that they have failed to know in practice, they simply have no experience and maybe this change, I trust the colleagues who delivered it to me, that it makes sense. What, which is not in some narrow relationship with this law, otherwise we will support the law, because I said at first it is about harmonisation, because the situation in the Croatian forests, that is, the way the Croatian forests are working today. With us, the usual rule is that public companies, all that's state to characterise it, something bad, let's start with privatisation. So far, we don't want the forest and water yet, but privatisation is something that's very good, is the state a bad employer, the state is not a bad employer bad employers are those people who represent the interests of the state, or which the ruling structure is installed there. On Friday, if I'm not mistaken, there was also one law relating to the Croatian forests, and among other things it was said that 75% of the newly appointed forest managers were specifically from 16, 12 from the SDP. No one's against it if it's about quality frames. However, if it turns out in practice that these quality personnel are not very good quality, that is, only politically appointed people who do not have enough quality to behave these duties, it would be their turn to move them as soon as possible, not to do further damage. I'm not alluding to someone's bad intentions, but we're not all equally capable of anything. What is here in my opinion is quite important all activities for which are registered Croatian forests. So our Croatian forests are registered among other things for the exploitation of water sources, so they are registered for the exploitation of stone, they even have legalized quarryes, so they are registered for primary wood processing, so there is the possibility of growing crops and gardening, viticulture, fruit growing, olive growing, etc. All of the 129 activities are activities for which the Croatian forests are registered. We now have one situation, as a rule we in Croatia like to call for experiences, that order of the state, Germany, Austria, and then we have a situation to say by the information available from the media that Austrian forests of over 50% of their income come from these other activities, and it is not irrelevant and tourism, is it also about attractive tourist sites that could be put into operation. It would therefore be questionable, but this finding that goes through the media that a large number of workers in the Croatian forests are surpluses, it may be excess in that basic activity, although I disagree there, is the point that some things want to be shown but there is the possibility to activate them in this way. It all depends again on those people who run this whole system and I think it's already been enough time to make some assessment of their effectiveness, of the effectiveness of those people who are in these jobs. I believe that there is good will for you and that it is not only that certain people are taken care of by name and last name, but that at the end and the quality of the work of the minister depends on the quality of the work of those companies, or the work that covers his ministry, so I think it's directly in your interest that you start something, that certain things are simply put into operation, is this, from what I'm just about about the 129 additional activities it turns out that we have opportunities, we have predispositionsions, we have people but we don't have something to run it all together, to put it into function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38256	Thank you. We have two replicas, Branko Vuksic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38257	Dear colleague Novak, you said one sentence, all what is in the state's hands is considered bad, you probably thought, is considered bad in Croatia. Often and with this, in this House of High and often read in the media, that the state is a bad master. We know it is in state hands, Croatia has quite a wealth. She's fifth in Europe by fortune in state hands. What does that mean? Is that why we're a bad economy, which is an indicator, that the state is a bad master? That thesis in the water falls when you see who the first four lands are. The first four countries are Norway, Finland, Iceland and Sweden. We're in fifth place. The state is a bad master when it's bad authority. The very character of ownership does not guarantee success or failure. Let's say now we're talking about Croatian forests. It is important how these Croatian forests are managed, who master these Croatian forests. It is important how leading people are placed at the head of the Croatian forests and it is important to ask the question why wood is exported in Croatia, logs and we did nothing to create conditions for the start of the wood processing industry. What do we do? We deal with only imports, raw materials exports, cheap exports. So the the thesis that everything that's in state hands, that's considered bad is the wrong thesis because bad can be management, bad can be those who manage that wealth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38258	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38259	Thank you very much. I suppose I did say rightly that the thesis that Croatia is, that the state is a bad master and does not give it my position or the position of the club. The fact is that we have heard the mass of times here precisely that the thesis of Croatia, the state is a bad master and all the resources need to be privatized, isolated, left behind the business, this all the rest is set aside. However, the practice has denied us. Not just our practice. In fact, I don't mean our practice at all, but I mean the practice that comes most often from those countries that we call upon and what we strive to do. There is no debt on one of the national television shows a show where practically a parallel between the management of forest resources in Austria and Croatia, so it is said that approximately the same quantities are possible for the exploitation or coverage of the territory but that then all the advantages are listed, everything Austria has done, which Croatia does not. Well, among other things, there was forest cleaning and regular, let's say how many logs they used in the construction industry, which isn't used by us. On the other hand, we pass every day given the state of Croatia. Every day we go somewhere along some woods. We have a chance to see that, unfortunately, most of it hasn't been maintained at all. The mass of the forest is not to say, I don't know, I don't know, they're slowly moving into some chicares, and in general you get the impression that when you go through both Slavonia and other parts of Croatia, in Banovina, Kordun that I don't even speak, that part is also devastated by war you can see that the country hasn't been maintained. It's just that you can see that there's just no taking care of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38260	Replica, Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38261	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, colleague Novak, this is an obvious example of how one topic is closely related, is that the professional approach is to the extent of a broader debate, so you have embarked on a debate on forestry. Namely, I cannot agree with this finding that you have entered it, meaning how much all activities are reported in the activities of the Croatian Forest. First and foremost, what we all know more or less, but we're forgetting, so maybe it's worth repeating. Foresting is a seasonal job. Based on business forestry, forest cultivation, forest exploitation. So for many years, forestry was not created in the '90s or was created in the 45s or was created in 48s, forestry in Croatia exists, has a century-old tradition. The question is, when we talk about forestry, how many forests in the Republic of Croatia are economic, how many are protected, which are practically the forests that make money, that is, the profits of the exploitation itself. So a long series of these years since the Croatian state, all previous governments have been launching certain restructuring procedures for the Croatian forests. But it's not easy. That's why it takes time, of course. Why there are all these activities registered, from waste production which is now a topic and there is a certain perspective and for the sake of Croatian forests of course as well as private initiatives, primarily for the seasonal character of work. Income forestry lasts five to six months, the rest is if we go to watch the bill get and the cost loss. It means complementing all these activities is about the profitability of saying so to the companies of the Croatian Forests themselves. Therefore, there are a number of activities that are registered as additional. Of course, there is always a place to be convinced that the new leadership will also go into restructuring, that it will slowly be settled on conditional terms to address all those activities that are not Kor business precisely with a goal but to become profitable on the market because otherwise certain activities registered within the Croatian forests are profitable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38262	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38263	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, I must confess whenever the debate is in any segment in which the Croatian forests or Croatian waters are touched that it is always worth mentioning these two resources although this applies to only one small part. I'm not actually going to say that it's the only two most valuable resources left that I hope no one will ever come up with the idea of going to privatize. But I wouldn't exactly put myself in that position with as much certainty as you all are, but they were alive to see. The problem is that forests may not have to be privatised, the activities of the Croatian forests will be privatised, so what we did. And what you've been saying these five months, I think you've mentioned five months that it's full season of basic activity, but why stick to only basic activities if we have this example that Austrian forests are about 50% or even over 50% of their income in these other segments, in other activities. Why do we tell ourselves that we won't, we can't? Tourism is certainly very attractive in that part. I don't know why we'd give up on why we wouldn't do me any good. After all, the exploitation of water for which we give someone else in concession if Croatian forests are Croatia, state property, why not stay with this exploitation that we are sure that it is then and in some future of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38264	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's time for my colleague, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38265	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. I came forward briefly because of the fact that this change of law is technical harmonisation as it says in the amendments and additions to the law. That is what it would say before Croatia enters the EU. So the amendments and additions to this law and to some and many others that are on the agenda and that we will discuss today and the next days prove what we know since June 2011 and then since 9 December 2011 when we signed an accession agreement that the Republic of Croatia is becoming the 28th member of the EU. I also came forward to thank again all those who participated in the negotiations especially in the agricultural negotiations. That was an extremely difficult chapter. The whole series of changes we had to make and the negotiations we had to make in Brussels were extremely difficult. Negotiations on this large segment of agriculture were certainly one of the most difficult ones, so Chapter 23, Chapter 8, because it had to bring in a series of changes on the one hand, and on the other, it answered the important question of how Croatian farmers would live in the future. Personally, I think it will be better, that Croatia's entry into the EU will open up a new space for Croatian agriculture and Croatian farmers, but we will have to work harder and harder. So this is a adjustment or alignment with the EU directive, and here it should once again be pointed out that we are entering the EU prepared, and once again I want to show disagreement with those in the political space of the Republic of Croatia who claim to be on our knees today, that Croatia is not prepared, but that is, they are just finding that fact. I don't think that's true. Negotiations of all that we have negotiated and what we have agreed and in the area of agriculture prove that we have the right to claim that we are ready to enter the EU, but of course we will have to do some things differently. And since we are talking about great wealth through changes and additions to this 4500 plant property law, we are talking about 260 autonomous properties of forest trees and more than 100 forest plant communities, I think we can see that as a member of the EU we are bringing huge wealth into the EU. And therefore, with even more attention than ever before, we need to keep constant watch over this wealth, be watchful daily and certainly regardless of the changes in the political scene, always respond to the common political consensus when it comes to the possible privatisation of this wealth. No, one big no, it must remain a national fortune because it's finally just something we borrowed from our children and from our grandson. So of course, like my clubmates, I will support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38266	Thank you very much. Minister Tihomir Jakovina's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38267	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have listened to your presentation on behalf of clubs and individually and, above all, thank you for supporting this law, which is in fact a complete and final alignment with the EU legislation, which also allows for additional incentives to an important economic branch or activity in the Republic of Croatia, which is the production of forest and reproductive material, and based on the provisions resulting from this law, it will allow forest reproductive material to be placed on third and global markets, with appropriate quality and related documentation. That this is not only a declarative confirmation of this quote from the debated colleague Vasic about the completion of the project at the Croatian Forest Institute last week, where one project worth 3 million kunas brought to an end and to the satisfaction of all people in the forestry sector. We are talking about the Seed Savings Bank, which, with the most modern technology, expertise, all those, says colleagues working in the Institute but in the Croatian forests and in general the forestry sector, will allow this segment of production of forest reproductive material to experience further improvement. When we talk about this part of the debate, I will only try very briefly to answer one question, or slightly correct some statements. On two occasions, this was a question for Article 17 for the appointment of a committee. We are talking about a committee that discusses, or decides on complaints about the solution of the firosanitarian inspection on imports, i.e. the movement of fruit material, and it is therefore envisaged that one of the colleagues in the firosanitary section should also be in the commission, without reducing the importance of normal professions and people in the forestry sector itself. And as for the debate between colleagues Novak and the Croatian Forests, I think we spent a lot of time last time. I will correct you not from this pay phone but from your colleague Vinkovic for staffing in branches or SDP heads of the branch which is not true, but these are people who have been in these branches who are professionals who continue to do their job, or contribute to the work of both their branches and their entire society. When we talk about comparison with Austrian forests, it is not the happiest model because the concept of management and management of Austrian forests is quite different from the fact that and the usability of forests is much higher in that negative sense if we consider that 9.2 million cubic metres is the annual growth of forests in Croatia and that we master and exploit economically through an annual level of only 60% and 5.4 million meters of cubic meters. Then we see how we take care of the future and how we take care of the wealth we have and these are Croatian forests. The concept of management in Austria is quite different much more commercially with clean cuttings and everything else that comes out of it. Yes, we can be as a society much more efficient, we can be much better and we are actually showing it through business in 2012 through the business plan of the Croatian Forests and through actually improving the business of society, a whole package of measures that includes both the reorganisation and consolidation and the restructuring of society. And we'll be able to measure that on every annual report we have. In financial and in any other sense. I think these first data are already speaking enough for 2012 with significantly reduced revenues at least in the part that we freed the parafiscal burdens of the Croatian economy on the basis of the general useful function of the forest... for 50% and with a more unfavourable relationship that we have for the material rights of workers under the collective contract of 2011. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The business results of Croatian forests are 3 times better than before. We're talking about getting over 20 million kuna. We are talking, once again I will repeat only at the introduction of work, order and responsibility in the position, almost 223 million kunas less funds, lower costs, less spent, less expenditure on material costs. I am sure by what is presented and what we have plotted in the Croatian forests that respected colleagues working in the Croatian forests will respond to all the challenges that are ahead of us. First of all, what is their basic task is responsible management and management of Croatian forests. And through this process and reorganisation and consolidation, restructuring will find the most optimal models for the internal functioning of Croatian forests. These activities were, as such, indicated in the court register, whether all were to be done in general is the matter of assessment. But the bad news is that in fact all the activities that are not, the Kor business, which are not the basic activities of the Croatian forests have been recording negative financial trends all these years and have been dealing with huge losses. As a result, part of the reorganisation and part of the activities will go with the goal, I say once again that Croatian forests would be as good at what they do and that is the management and management of Croatian forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38268	Now we have five replicas. Young Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38269	Thank you very much. In fact, the ministers now reminded me of the detail that I forgot in my debate, business is successful and lower expenditure on material costs. Since we have had such experiences before, we have had such practice before you as Government met at the beginning of your term of office. I ask the question is it the same thing in action now? Is it the same scenario? You have denied workers the right to if the media has passed well on to Christmases, regressions, jubilee awards and everything else that goes. Does this mean that there will be mass lawsuits of employees of the Croatian Forests who will be after two, three years of how long court disputes will be remunerated but that is already the mandate of a subsequent government. Is that going to be the consequence of this let's say better business. And the other thing, what you said in the final part to these other than... business of basic activity that everything else has practically not produced good results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe that's why it didn't give good results because it didn't pay enough attention to it, or I'm not going to say, there were probably cases like that, and maybe something was deliberately pushed into another plan to get this kind of data, to realize that something wasn't worth it, so let's just move it out of this activity now. Cleanly, you know for yourself, you live in Croatia that such experiences, such practices, we have had countless times. And what the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament has said before that, but well, I'm not giving a replica to his, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38270	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38271	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, yes, it can always be better. Order, work, responsibility in the system, and then the results as such will come. 11th month 2011, 65 million collectively contracted increased workers' material rights, and when we talk about salaries, the average net salary in Croatian forests is 11%, gross wages 6% higher than the average salaries of other employees in public enterprises. The management of the company negotiates, has an active dialogue with both trade unions and employees, and we will see how it will come to..................................................................................................................... We believe that in these conditions that are not very... given the recession and crisis, everyone must submit a certain part of the responsibility, i.e. give up a certain part to keep their jobs and to improve the work of the companies themselves. Introductory economies that were the same for us were not these problems, all the staff of the water economy and Croatian waters and those related to the resort did not create any additional requirements, unlike trade unions that are related to forestry. Negotiations are under way, so we'll see how it ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38272	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38273	Dear Minister Jakovina, you spoke of the concept of management of Croatian forests and compared it with the one in Austria. All that matters is what's with this wealth, what's with the Croatian fortune. You said that 60% of forest yields are only cut, exploited, but it's important how much profit we get out of those forests, and how much profit we can get out of those woods. Which is why Croatian forests, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, only treat Croatian forests as wealth that can only be produced by logs, which can produce what is cheapest on the market, and the Government does not create as I said before the frameworks so that a part, as we say all the time, of the processing industry that can be strong in Croatia. Which is why you say everyone has to give up part of the pay to keep jobs. Well, I guess we should think about expanding our activities, making other countries watch us raise our salaries, hiring as many people as possible, and by reducing the company's activity, reducing wages, we're propagating that it's the only way to keep jobs. I think all the time, we've been talking about the same thing for 14 months, instead of the government doing a plan on how to hire people, the government says all the time, we have to tighten the belt to keep this little employee, and we see that it doesn't work because without production, nothing will be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38274	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38275	Thank you. Dear colleague, I will repeat once again and correct you in this section that the government has no strategy, or does not help the woodworking sector. A very high quality and reasoned discussion between the woodworking sector and the Croatian Forests took several months, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture with the aim of finding a whole package of aid measures and improving the work of the woodworking sector. I'll repeat once again, in 20 years, we first have a model by which our wood growers have 10-year-old, multi-annual contracts based on which they can make their production and plan better, invest and everything else. Through this is also a defined rabat scale towards the final product itself so that those who have a higher degree of the final, which we agree that it is important not to export raw materials or semi-products and thus create ourselves competition in foreign countries. So the higher the degree of the final, the 6 and 7 degrees have sufficient quantities, or with the full amount they have according to the requirements as such, have rebates that de facto make them extremely competitive in the markets. Unfortunately, everything that has happened in recent years, and especially in 2008 when the recession itself started, didn't work out for the woodworking sector, but through these encouraging measures we think we're going to make an extra push or an extra step, the possibility for the woodworking sector to move forward. We take care of them and Croatian forests are right through this package of measures and through these multi-year contracts have shown their concern and care for the woodworking sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38276	Replica, Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38277	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Ministers, when you referred to yourself, and you spoke about the Austrian model, namely, I would only add, it is worth mentioning that the European forests, including the Austrian forests, were more or less similar to the model, so early in the 20th century they worked so on. Exploitation cutting. To speak in a simple dictionary, where, first of all, these woods were exploited, a cutting quality tree, technically everything that was not good, which was not profitable for technical use was left behind. We have similar examples in our Croatian forests, these are now something that was cut between the two world wars, before World War I, etc., meaning the devastated ingredients that we are now bringing in and from them we are creating let's say seeds so that they can be restored naturally. What is also a specific feature of European forestry, they are primarily not interested in the wood industry. That's where we have to figure out certain elements. The European Union has a fully defined wood market, the exploitation is done in one way, let's say a more modern way, a cheaper way, for what reason? Europe is plentiful with the surface of monocultures where clean cuts are made. You have a hardware, you have a certain mechanism that is several times cheaper than exploiting or exploiting forests in our natural ingredients. That's the point of the problem. Croatia has defined not only in previous periods but also since the 1990s. the year will continue to support the natural ingredients, the natural restoration of forests, of course, which is ultimately more expensive, and more investment in the cost of exploitation itself and the far more expensive cost of cultivation or forest care. That's the point of the problem. And wood growers in the end of the country can give them gratis to say wood raw material. Unfortunately, it hasn't shown up once in the past 20 years. Those who cannot survive in the market would also fail to get a tree to make such a big one in Zagorje. There's no Vinkovic so he can answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38278	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38279	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, on Friday and today you are talking about saving Croatian forests of 234 million kuna at material costs. It would have been very good if you'd used exact data from the balance sheet. Then, according to your indicators, the profit in 2012 would probably be the Croatian forest of over 250 million. Because if you cut material costs, and you didn't increase other expenses, then that makes sense. So it's not good to throw off data that simply doesn't have a foothold on the balance sheet. Because if I'm not mistaken, the financial indicators of the Croatian Forests for 2012 are not a bit brilliant. But look will pass in 2013 and probably somewhere at this time we will also discuss the balance sheet of public enterprises, companies in the majority state-owned and you will see that Croatian forests will have no profit of 200 and some million more. So when you're talking about cutting material expenditures by 234 million, then you have to say what expenditures it's about. You may also have some cyclical expenses you had in the previous year. You don't have them this year, and in 2013 you'll have them. Therefore, no one is opposed to being immediately understood to introduce order. Wherever you work, you will have the maximum support of all of us from the Croatian Democratic Community club. But I repeat, it's not good to go out with a number that's this bombistic, and it just doesn't rest on anything. Because if the balance and profit in 2011, I repeat, was what it was, if in 2012, 234 were incinerated at current costs, the material costs were current costs, and the other costs remained at the same level, then the logical thing is that in 2012 at least 200 million increased profits of Croatian forests. And as far as I'm not wrong about the balance sheet and profit, they're not God knows what kind of 2012 is. But I repeat, it will pass in 2013 and then we'll see what you say. But I told you on Friday, please, when you're talking about numbers, tell me what the numbers are, because this number just doesn't stand there, it doesn't drink the water that our people would say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38280	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38281	Thank you, dear fellow Shucker. I'm glad you're saying again that we're going to have the support to bring order, work into the system, and I'm really happy about it. And when you're talking about this, you'd have to analyze the balance in detail, because you know, if you have less revenue on the basis of a fee for a general useful function of the forest and you have a significant separation in the biological restoration of the forest, then use the savings from the system to invest in the forest itself. Our basic thing and the basic task is actually to master, manage forests, take care of our forests, which are our wealth, and it is my special pleasure when actually colleagues from the profession as colleagues Batinić further explain what is important and important of the forest. An analysis of the balance sheet itself will be done if necessary under some other conditions, but we can also do it when this report is submitted as you have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38282	And Zlatko Tušak, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38283	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I was offered your sentence when you said that Croatian forests could be more effective. I do, however, think that Croatian forests must be more efficient, because Croatian forests in one part of the wood industry have also affected that they are in an unspeakable situation precisely because of their irrationality and their business and sometimes the blackmailing of the wood industry. It is very high value, somewhere 47% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is covered by forests. Of that somewhere around 81% is owned by the state. And what we're talking about is something people run about, which is people in the Croatian forests, and I don't agree with that finding that's still being said today that the state is inefficient. They can only be inefficient people who are possibly set up by someone without good leadership and doing their own policy. And that is why I think that when it comes to this very important ownership that it should be and must be more effective in the interest of the wood industry that is on its knees if we want it to survive and continue to work because we think it has a very large and important tradition in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38284	Answer? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38285	The following is the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on forest reproductive material, emergency procedure, first and second readings, P.Z.E. No. 331. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for the Law of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the Honorable Minister of Tihomira Jakovina to manifest himself. Amendment No 1, only in Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38286	Thank you, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Government of the
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38287	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 108 votes, the amendment law and amendments to the Law on forest reproductive material are in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38288	We move to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 338. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina will explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38289	The Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, the Honored Mss of Representatives and Representatives of the Agency for Payment in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development was established by the Law establishing a Payment Agency for Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the National Journal of 30/2009 as a public institution whose activities and operational implementation of market and structural support measures in agriculture, fisheries and rural development, the implementation of the programme of international support, further payment and supervision of the implementation of the action programme, and the implementation of controls on the ground. The Agency is a public institution. The salaries of agency workers shall be subject to the provisions of the Public Service Payment Act and the Employment Names Regulation and Public Service Complication Coefficients, while general rules apply to the legal status of employees of the Agency. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law provides for the following: to charge other fees on the basis of the work of the agency workers shall apply the provisions of the law to salaries in public services and the rules on the names of jobs and the coefficients of complexity of public service transactions. Furthermore, the composition of the Governing Council of the Agency and the way in which its members are appointed, which is in full compliance with the provisions of the Labour Act. In view of the fact that the Public Service Payments Act lays down a maximum coefficient for the complexity of jobs in the amount of 3,5 with regard to the tasks carried out by the Agency and the responsibility of the Director and the Deputy Director in the performance of those tasks as well as the amount of the budget for which the Agency itself is responsible, i.e. the Director of the Agency's law is complemented by the provisions which will be laid down under 1) by the adoption of a specific decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the payments of the Director and the Deputy Director of the Agency and under 2), the deadline for the adoption of that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38290	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38291	Dear Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. As already said, the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development was established in 2009 by the Act establishing the Agency. In this regard, the adoption of these amendments and additions to the Agency itself is based essentially on coefficients and new employment and how the maximum coefficient of complexity of jobs is based on the Public Service Payments Act 3.5, the Proposer proposes that the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency be represented and represented by the Agency, organise and conduct the work and business of the Agency and take actions in the name and on behalf of the Agency and other Affairs of the Agency, segregate from the above said Regulation, and that their pay is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special decision. Of course, the question arises why and how do you make a very special decision? So he says, with the restriction that it must not be higher than the deputy minister's salary. The same Article also provides for a period of 30 days from the entry into force of this Act for the decision in question. They propose to justify the complexity of the tasks carried out by the Director and the Deputy Agency. In the course of the debate at the committee meeting, the question is, what is the coefficient going to be? And the Ministry's representatives did not have an answer to that question. But here, I'm saying here, it's pretty much said how much pay it should be, and the question now is whether these people who are going to be working on these jobs tomorrow really need to have that kind of pay and that, in particular, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should make a decision that the coefficients will be and how much these same employees will be paid. An amendment has been proposed regarding the appointment of members of the Governing Council in such a way that one member of the Management Board of the Agency is elected to be a representative of employees of the Agency's employees by virtue of the Labour Act appointed and revoked by the Working Council. The administrative council would consist of one representative of the agriculture ministry, one representative of the finance ministry, one representative of the ministry responsible for regional development and one representative of employees in the agency itself. Accreditation of the paying agency, conditions for the use of the EU's common agricultural policy funds in which 5 billion kuna is available to Croatian farmers annually for direct payments and rural development. During 2013, around 800 million kunas will be withdrawn from the funds. However, the question of respected colleagues and colleagues is also being asked whether we will be ready to withdraw these funds that guarantee that agriculture in Croatia is indeed experiencing the rise and rebirth of Croatian peasants to the extent that it deserves it. At the same time, however, we have witnessed that all the preparations that we should have done and helped the same Croatian peasant to legalise his facilities first and foremost, to be ready when Croatia, and we are already at the very threshold of EU entry, are ready to withdraw this amount of funds offered by Croatia's entry into the EU. I am sure because of the various circumstances that this will not be feasible and I am sure that our farmers will have very big problems just because they have not done some other things that they should have done, and that is, above all, the legalisation of the facilities where the Government of the Republic of Croatia was going to go with a sharp one, I will not say too harsh but harsh measures where the Croatian farmer is unable to legalise those objects. And we know for ourselves if he doesn't have legalized facilities and all that paperwork he's asked of him that he won't even be able to use the funds he's being offered. With the aim of obtaining accreditation, the Croatian paying agency had to develop a very complex IT infrastructure, and it was done back several years and establish an integrated, administrative and control system that includes a set of standards and processes defined at EU level, which all Member States are obliged to adhere to when receiving, processing and monitoring agricultural requirements for direct support and rural development measures related to the area. We are also witnessing here that when we talk about current laws and everything that has been done so far to make Croatia more ready to enter the EU then we are not ready to say here, which is, above all, political motives where it is intended to be offended and all that has been done so far, and especially here someone in the Assembly said that a large part of the jobs have just been determined in the pre-accession of the Croatian EU. And we have just witnessed that it was worth doing all these pre-accession negotiations and all that it takes to be proudly whaled today, so to speak, that Croatia proudly in the EU and Mrs Kosor said so, and this is indeed the merit and former government that has indeed led the negotiations and that has made everything possible for Croatia to join the EU. You don't need to shut up and you don't have to just blur everything that happened before, and glorify this existing and present state and the adoption of certain laws, because if this hadn't been done before today, it certainly wouldn't have been possible to bring here either... the laws, but also not to make or amend existing laws. [[You don't understand a word.]] In the last 2 years, a register of agricultural holdings, a register of all farmers in the country of ARCOD, a system of identification of land parcels and satellite surveillance, the Register of domestic animals, etc. has been established. In the Central Office in Zagreb, the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries, Rural Development sent it through the 21st Regional County Centre and 60th Exhibition. Of course, we people who come from various parts of Croatia, I speak primarily from Požega-Slavon County, we are also pleased that it is the regional, that is, outpost in Požega-Slavon County, Ministry of Agriculture. And that we are really glad that all those employees who work there and all our farmers, and all those users of the ministry and the agencies can have their hands on it, and certainly no matter what the recommendation is and which may be different in other countries, as in the Czech Republic, which is a far larger country has far fewer of these facilities and agencies themselves. But we are truly pleased that our farmers in our area can have at their service, and so to speak at the reach of such an agency, which is certainly welcome for all those who need it. Based on the findings of European auditors for meeting the regulatory criteria and the required standards of space and information security, they are being prepared, attached to regional offices, agencies as I said in the county centres. In all, the Croatian Democratic Community and the club will be restrained on the basis of amendments and additions to the Law establishing the paying agency in agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38292	Thank you. The replica of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38293	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lucic, here's all that you've been saying, which has been going back 8 or 10 years and the conclusion of the negotiations is not worth anything today. This government has been preparing these 8 years in such a way that, simply in the way that the coefficients raised, how to reconcile the wages and then what offends me, and it insults really all those responsible workers who get up at 6 o'clock, it's the cashiers, it's my neighbor who works in the bakery, except that she's lying bread, she's also charging, she's very responsible. When it's read today, here I think you'll agree to coordinate the coefficients yourself, and we now have the law, some members of the agency, because there's a huge responsibility. That's the responsibility of the principal we got several times when we only had this, it's not coordination. So, the coefficients are rising, some of them are going to get a little lower and then they ask me my neighbors who get up in 5, who have millions of kunas going through their hands, aren't we responsible, there's no law for them. Well, for God's sakes, if you haven't been able to match those odds after a year and a half, I don't understand that you're humiliating a paying agency like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38294	Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38295	Well, I agree with my colleagues completely with your replica. In fact, it is one of the more extensive problems that could be discussed, far longer and more concrete than I have, of course, for that time. Be careful when we talk about agencies themselves or rather about state institutions that employ as much as 21,000, then it would certainly be worth seeing how many people in these individual agencies and institutions have salaries. It is simply in this list here that I have with me that it is visible, that these are enormously high salaries and as I said in my presentation, the question arises whether the very people who are going to run those agencies tomorrow should be at the level of the deputy minister, or at the level of the deputy minister's salary. Here, indeed, in this law alone today, the word to verify it and to raise the hand that certainly those citizens who do, and where are the average personal incomes not lower than this but cannot be compared at all, they wonder which country we live in? Ones in the real sector work for 3,000 kuna, and some agencies here have 37, 25, 19, 16, 17 thousand kuna net personal income. Well, then, of course, people are wondering why it is and why it's like that, and this government is all about struggling to make these personal incomes so distinctly large, as opposed to those people who work in the real sector and who absolutely cannot compare themselves with such wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38296	On behalf of Croatian Labourers' Club Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38297	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with their associates. What we're doing today is certainly what we should have done in April of last year, if it wasn't done in January 2012, and then we should have gone to work what was promised in plan 21. This law is a small but preying attention to controversy. I'm going to mention a few controversys actually that's the essence of this law. The law states that the agency is a public institution, which is within the meaning of the Public Service Payments Act, and therefore the question of salaries and other fees based on the work of the Agency shall be subject to the provision of rules on officials and tenants and public services. I don't understand why this law? It's all scheduled, you know how to pay. Does this mean that the director and the deputy aren't part of those agencies, they're not part of the public service? And I don't get it, but here I think we had a conversation last week about an agency, and something that's already been laid down by law applies. If something was provided for by law, why didn't he follow that law? Because it says here that the salaries of the director and deputy director of the agency will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special decision. So the government's decision will be stronger than this law. What's with the law anyway? Which is why we have two criteria or is assumed to be that the Director and Deputy Director does not fall under this law or are not part of the Agency or are not part of the Public Service. However, the agency is said to be a public institution in the Republic of Croatia. There's another controversy that says this agency was founded as an independent institution. How can a government agency be an independent institution? Independent of whom or what if it is known that the Agency has a board of directors who are supposed to have some function, are representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and only one representative of the Agency. It is absolutely certain that this agency is not an independent institution and that it is highly dependent on the government and it is the government's tool, you can see by who is sitting in that agency and in fact everything the law says about this agency suggests that the agency is not independent. Therefore, this law that has been sent to the benches seems to me to be further wandering the Kukuriku coalition and certainly that Croatian Labourists will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38298	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, a colleague, Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38299	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first sight, when I saw the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing a paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development, I expected at least to strengthen the role of that agency which we cannot say does its job well, but I expected to strengthen the role to help farmers. But by turning the first page, there was a great disappointment. What does this bill bear for us? The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing a paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development contains only an amendment to the three articles of the applicable law, but the amendments proposed by those articles are important because, in addition to the provisions on the Administrative Board of the Agency, they relate to the establishment of salaries to the Director and the Deputy Director of the Agency. Payments shall be determined outside the Public Service Payments Act, i.e. by a special decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and shall only be limited to not being higher than the Deputy Minister’s salary as proposed in Article 3 of the proposed Law. However, the reasons for the adoption of the said emergency law state reasons are given in particular to ensure assumptions for the work of the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development as a public institution, and only in the end is the second reason, which is that the offices are paid to the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency. If we look at the point of three arguments that the application of the proposed law will not require additional funding in the Republic of Croatia's budget, this means that the above-mentioned salary increase outside the public service wage law was planned when the Republic of Croatia's budget was adopted and we can see how something systematic is planned and implemented. But this law does not answer questions about how much support will be paid in view of the legal provision of the amount, does not answer questions about how Croatian farmers will survive this year, does not answer questions about what happened to the floods, what about last year's droughts, does not answer questions as to why he collected the re-promatter? Why did they collect mineral fertilisers, blue diesel? Why did they collect the means of protection? That law doesn't answer that question. This law has no answers to these questions. He makes his own payments to the principal and assistant director. The HDSSB club will be restrained when this law is passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38300	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38301	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, speaking frankly and looking at this law, it's not clear to me what this is about and where it's about introducing order to the state because this is the introduction of disorder. The other thing is, I don't understand, Mr. Minister, if you claim that this agency is one of the most important structural units in your ministry and in the area of your ministry, then why is this not settled by the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials? Because if the law says that this law regulates the obligations and rights of state officials in state authorities, then the question arises whether the agency is a body of state authority or not a body of state authority. If the head of the agency is not on this list, that means that our people say below the grains you extend the list of officials because, by the importance of the work and responsibility that the head of the agency is doing, he would have to be on the list here if it wasn't explicit then the head of the agency would have to be led under the directors of the Central Agency for the financing and gossiping of the EU project programme, or before, the directors of state administrations, so either one or the other. Or you'll point him out if it's particularly important. Third, also his deputy. Why am I saying that? I am speaking for the reason that this is so defined and that this is how you view it in this way, then this provision in the law you propose in Article 3 is the addition of Article 9 in paragraph 8, so Articles 9 and 10 are added. They simply don't need this, if you're talking about order because look if you have a government structure, if you have bodies that are part of it, if you have a list of state officials, if you have a law that defines their coefficients you, by law establishing an agency, practically already have a certain coefficient of that agency leader and its deputy because it's prescribed by this law. Also, when we talk about employees' salaries at the agency, you say there will be a law on public service wages. Well, the logical thing is, if it's defined by that law, then you're defining the salary of those people with the internal structure, and what's important is I'm surprised that this has passed the government's legislation office. These things are not governed by laws. These things are defined by lex specialis laws but I repeat if you are saying that you are going to do order and not mess then the logical thing is that the account of employees in the agency's salaries is also to be part of this single salary bill for all state authorities and what is repeated in all proposals of this law for these governments does not need additional funds and now I am interested in Mr. Ministers in considering when you proposed and reviewed the proposal and request of the head of the agency for wages and other material costs of employees you had to have the coefficient. So that's the coefficient you've determined on the basis of something. And you now don't change that coefficient by this law or say that you're going to change the coefficient but you say that the government will determine the pay by its decision. The government cannot determine the salary by its decision if it is a state official for a simple reason, as defined by the Law on Rights, Obligations and Rights of Officials. So there's a lot of strangers, a lot of ignorance and unfortunately a lot of ignorance, because this law just doesn't make sense, there's no need because I repeat or extend the list of officials because it's not on this list of officials. The second thing, since you don't need funds, then you've set them a coefficient, based on which you've set the coefficient already before the government has made a decision and if it's not on the list of these government officials because the other thing is that these people don't do it, they don't get paid. Based on which they receive the salary and the basis of which you, in the request of the budget, have planned the funds for these salaries. So just one law that doesn't need at all, one law that's too high and one law that puts a total mess into pay and one law that just confirms what we've been saying all along that this government has increased the number of officials and not reduced by the abolition of state secretaries. So something that shows a discrepancy, something that shows unfortunately no knowledge and something that shows a mess rather than order as you like to boast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38302	Thank you. The replica of my colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38303	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Shuker, however, was introduced, as they were not, order was introduced in a way that abolished the city paying offices, so people are now travelling to work in other cities and are being followed by agricultural producers. I guess now this law should reward those who have done it and who have done damage to our peasants, to the agricultural producers who travel and to all those who are now with the work they have been doing and who are doing it, now they need to be paid, of course, travel expenses. That's a fact. And what might be important in this introduction of order in this part would really be this change of law and the determination of salaries to the head of the agency may finally solve and the system of payment of incentives because now farmers do not know what they get and how much they get, that is what the milkers said in Gudovac on Sunday at their meeting, at their meeting. Well, maybe that's why they're finally making order in that part so people finally know what they're getting paid for.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38304	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38305	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So watch your colleague Hrg when it's designed to form some kind of unit if it's supposed to serve someone, then it's designed to make that uniform form as close as possible to the one who's going to use it. However, obviously the problems our farmers have with and incentives, but what is far more important as we are, I say, because we are all carrying part, our part of responsibility in some way, has been prepared by Croatian farmers for EU funds. And I'm saying, this law only best shows that we're dealing with banal things, because this should have been practically determined before the agency even started to function. And secondly, the structure of the agency should be such that it is, so where agriculture is more intense and even smaller municipalities that it has an agency if it is necessary because it probably binds a lot of farmers to itself. And maybe some big city doesn't need that agency, because there's just not a lot of people looking for that agency's needs. And if that were the case with the bill, then they'd realize that something was trying to improve. However, this reminds me of that story about the importance of the head of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Well, he's running one-third of the budget. He doesn't run one-third of the budget at all. One-third of the budget is managed by parliamentary representatives at the time they raised their hands for the Pension Insurance Act on the basis of which pensions are determined. And also on the level of the retirement rate are collected, and then in the Assembly that amount is determined, and that's that. So he's just technically producing it and making sure that someone out there doesn't make much of a solution in some way. I sincerely hope the Agriculture Agency doesn't do similar things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38306	And the final word of Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38307	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I listened closely to you, so I got a bit of a surprise set-up. In 2009, the paying agency was established. I would be extremely pleased with my dear colleague Shuker that, at the very establishment of the Agency, she was in line with both the Labour Act and the Public Service Payments Act as well as the Labour Name Regulation and the Complication Coefficients. I will remind you that former director Mrs Lucević had a coefficient of 5.27, which was significantly higher under the existing law and by the existing regulations. It is understandable if we are talking about the importance of the agency, it is big, it is one of the few agencies that has been accredited, which is doing most of the jobs related to the EU and which will already now but also tomorrow worry about, over 5 billion kunas of agricultural budgets. When we speak how and in what way, all these regulations were inherited. When you're talking about whether or not this law introduces order, yes, the 6 agencies are in the ministry tied up as public institutions related to the Ministry of Agriculture, and in all six we've made adjustments, we've made an adjustment of the coefficients and all the acts that were to be made. This is an exception and therefore we must resolve them by amending and supplementing the law. Why? Because we've been accredited, which is why we can't change the Agency's accreditation structure since it as a public institution is precisely defined by the work it's doing and that's being checked out by the Commission. Both employees, and in that agency, but in other agencies, they had all this time different coefficients. It's even related to each other, we're talking about agencies that are related to one ministry. Not to mention we have hundreds of agencies worth different rules from the coefficients of complexity to the job titles for which these coefficients are linked. This way and this is the final act where we all agree. So all six agencies have agreed, we're talking about the amount of coefficients that are significantly lower than what the directors and vice directors and even employees have so far had. If we are talking about the Payment Agency, where according to what was agreed with the Commission and on which it was obtained and accredited because of the complexity of jobs, the performance of EU-related jobs and the rest have the right to 30% higher coefficients, and that's where we put the order in place. Because so far, both secretaries and drivers and suppliers have had the same increase in 30% of the coefficients as the people who worked on complex IPARD projects or anything else. So it was introduced completely through all the acts of order. I'd be glad if you'd tried to do a new Law on civil servants' salaries, or public service salaries as such, then you probably wouldn't need this law today. All agencies related to the Ministry of Agriculture are fully in line with all the laws. We're only talking about two places here, we're talking about a director and a deputy who already have less pay than the former principal had. And who will have an even smaller salary. But it will be precisely arranged which height of the coefficient. And in Article 9(9), it tells us that it can be maximum until the Deputy Minister pays. So far, you've had a complete discrepancy and anarchy in that section. That the agencies that count 20 people had higher coefficients, their salary directors than the agencies that count 500 people. And no one was controlling it. Not to mention this second part that we're fixing by this law, which is the composition and structure of a board of directors who also didn't comply with the Labour Act. And he wasn't a representative of the workers themselves within the agency in the Joint Administrative Council. We've changed, we've coordinated, and I think we have something ahead of us that we've had to do, and when we're talking about why we're not looking for new, new financial resources in the budget because just by introducing order and related to the Job Name Regulation and Complication Coefficients, we've made significant, significant savings, not only to the Payment Agency, but to all agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38308	Thank you. Replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38309	Well, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry you didn't understand what I was saying. Because if you say in Article 1 that you need to add paragraph 5 to the salaries and other fees based on the work of workers in the Agency, the provisions of the law shall apply. I'm just telling you that it doesn't need to stand in the law, but if the government has made such a decision, then the Internal Design Regulation and the assessment of the value of jobs, that is. The coefficient determines your salary. And the other thing is, I disagree with you, which is why I asked you if this agency is important to you. Well, you just can't get quality people for this job if you're going to go with a socialist angler, give them change, not some normal pay. The second thing, look at the acts and what were the problems, which the European Union resented for us as regards the people who were conducting the negotiations and who were doing jobs to comply with the legislation and who were working in new institutions based on the harmonisation of legislation with the European Union where the European Union insisted that these people have higher salaries. So what you just said, when you don't have the arguments, just say you're this, you're that. Okay, we are, but you've been in power for a year and a half, so that story just doesn't drink water anymore. But I'm just saying that this is one normative nonsens, and I'm not going to say the hard word, and this just doesn't work this way. Because if you have the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State Officials and if you have a nice standing of the Director of the Central Agency for the Financing and Negotiation of European Union Programmes and Projects, coefficient 5.27 or if you stand by the Director of State Administration Organisations 5.27, if he is an official in that capacity then he must have that coefficient, we cannot have him... in one way or another. If you do not like it and if you think it should have such a coefficient then suggest an amendment to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials and specify the Director of the Payment Agency, give it a 3.50 coefficient, that is your right. I'm just telling you that there's a lex specialis law that regulates that right and that law cannot be regulated by this law. That's what it's all about, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38310	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38311	Thank you, dear fellow Shucker. The Director and Deputy Director of the Payment Agency are not state officials, they are not state officials, nor can they be because the Agency is accredited as a public institution under exactly the strictest defined rules you know because they were the subject of everything we have been doing in accordance since 2009. When we talk about the fact that employees are underpaid, no, I noted that the majority of the paying agency's employees have an additional 30% coefficient for EU jobs and are expected to do their job properly, professionally and quality. Another small review, given that there are some seconds left, related to the reduction of the number or... of the office. It's the same thing that wasn't invented, invented by this director or this minister, but something that was the subject of the negotiations and the whole package of measures that should have been implemented in such a way as to tell the story. And according to the results we already have in 2012 I will only point out that the use and usability of IPARD funds was somewhere at a level of 125 million kuna last year compared to some 23 to 24 million in 2010 and 2011, means that the agency started to do something more quality, something better than the previous period. A lot more effort, a lot of work to do, but this is just a de facto alignment of what we have. I wish I had already had these regulations and everything else in line and that my ex-director didn't find me with a much higher coefficient than the director and vice principal has now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38312	Davorin's Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38313	Thank you very much. Good morning, Minister Jakovina. It took a year and a half for you to go to the agencies and now we're listening to your arguments all the time that have nothing to do with what we're complaining about. I'm going to try to say this very simply, the Law on the Agency for Payments in Agriculture is not the right thing to edit employees' salaries in that agency. Since there is a Law on Public Service Payments, you should have made payments at the Agency in accordance with that law. We're just pointing out here to you that you've tried to solve your salary in the wrong way in this agency. It's not settled by this law. Payments in the Agency, as well as in all other institutions, are settled on the basis of the Public Service Payments Act, since these agencies are considered public services, as you have the law governing salaries in the State Service. And you, by this means of individual wages and coefficients, are tearing down the system because the law that should be talking about how the agencies work, you have simplified and arranged only the coefficients of the people who are at the head of that agency. Release stories about who they are or who they are not because in either case, whether they are officials or officials, their salaries are not regulated by this law but by the law governing wages and the law is strong and there is. You were supposed to comply with that law at the Agriculture Payments Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38314	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38315	Thank you. Dear colleague Mlakar, so I wish you'd done it as a minister, if you'd changed the Public Service Payments Act, and then all agency directors would have a harmonised salary. This is how I got into a situation where I had six principals and all six had different coefficients, different pay levels. Did you have that knowledge and control at all and they all had much more coefficients than 3.5 which they were allowed under the 2002 law. If it had been done then, I probably wouldn't be here today with that law and not have any business. But I will assure you that all the coefficients for all the agencies, at all levels of complexity and the description of jobs, are complex and consistent with the law. The exception remains here because it is an accredited agency, because it is an agency with special importance that works for the EU and which has an extremely high responsibility and we have found a solution to do so by amending this law. All other agencies are fully harmonised, unfortunately a failure, I'm talking about the 2002 law, 2009 agency was founded, it was not known that it would be 7 years in advance, but there was plenty of time, especially when you..., that resistor and led and had enough opportunities and energy to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38316	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38317	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister, I must say that I do not share your optimism in the part where you said that the agency will have 5 billion kuna in the distribution of these money to Croatian producers in agricultural production. Because we simply didn't prepare these people for the use of these funds, and they enter into a little harder battle than 1.7, which you know well. You're talking about introducing order, and I'm going to say here that by solving the salary of a certain head of an agency, it's certainly not going to introduce order and that, in principle, a farmer is not going to care whether that boss has 1,000 or 2,000 kunas or less. He wants every month when he gets the incentive, when he gets the resources to know exactly what he's got it for, and know when he's gonna get it and when he's gonna be able to handle it. There's where I'm asking you to introduce order. It's the introduction of order. It is then something that will certainly help Croatian agricultural producers, Croatian peasants, because what we are talking about here now is not going to affect all of this at all because and now it could have all worked out and now it could have been so. If you've been working for a year and a half on synchronising the agency's salaries, then we can think about how long it's gonna take the ministry to coordinate really the right acts that are needed to make the system work and it doesn't work, it's a mess. It's a fact state, the agricultural producers say, so people say they don't know what they're getting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38318	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38319	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the paying agency for agriculture, fisheries and rural development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 338. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I'd like Minister Tihomir Jakovina to be read on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38320	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38321	Amendment No 1. to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38322	Yeah. Amendment No 1 to Article 1 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38323	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment No 2 to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38324	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38325	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. And Amendment number three.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38326	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38327	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 25 abstentions have been passed by the law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38328	We move to - Final proposal of the consumer information law on food, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 348. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure are united by both first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38329	I thank the esteemed vice president, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Consumer Food Information Act is adopted in order to comply with EU legislation, i.e. to ensure full implementation of the EU Regulation. 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the provision of food information to consumers. This area in the Republic of Croatia has so far been regulated by the Regulation on the labelling, advertising and presentation of food as a Regulation on the labelling of the nutritional value of food established by the Food Act and in accordance with the EU Directive replacing that regulation for which this law is adopted. The aim of the regulation, as well as the law itself, is to ensure a high level of protection of health and consumer interest by informing them of the food offered on the market, will provide them with complete and unambiguous data on the same, and the smooth functioning of the EU single market, which has become the Republic of Croatia since 1 July this year. The Regulation signs the scope in such a way that the prescribed requirements apply to all food intended for the final retail consumer as well as to food offered by public food facilities, catering. Furthermore, the general principles relating to informing consumers about food, according to which food must be marked precisely, clearly and easily, for both consumers and given information, must not deceive consumers of origin, composition, food characteristics and the like. Furthermore, it prescribes the obligations and mandatory data to be indicated in food labelling. For example, the name of the food, the duration, composition, origin and other means of supplying mandatory data and the responsibility for informing consumers about food that food business operators have at all stages of food production and placing on the market if their activities include providing food information to consumers. The new requirements laid down in the Regulation, for example for the first time, are prescribed the size of the case with which the food must be marked and shall be at least 1.2 mm except for small packages where it may be minimum 0,9 mm. The obligation to identify allergens has been prescribed either by extracting allergens from the list of ingredients or by highlighting them in the list of ingredients supported by cursive or other colour, and also by obligation, the obligation also applies to unpacked goods. Since December 2016, it becomes mandatory to specify nutritional values for all foods, meaning energy values, amounts of fat, carbohydrates, proteins, salts and other, and it is mandatory to indicate the date of freezing for frozen meat preparations or the date of first freezing if the product is frozen or frozen several times. I'm talking about frozen meat and frozen unprocessed fishery products. The law shall ensure the implementation of that Regulation by establishing the authorities responsible for the implementation of the Regulation. These are the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, then the bodies responsible for carrying out official controls and competent inspections, the Ministry of Agriculture. These are food quality inspections, agricultural inspectors, veterinary inspectors, the Ministry of Health with its sanitary inspectors and the State Inspectorate, or economic inspectors. For example, in the case of minor discrepancies with regulations and prescribed requirements, or where they pose no risk to consumer health, the inspector will not immediately restrict and/or prohibit the placing or order withdrawal from the market of such food, but you may set an appropriate time limit for its removal. The law also provides for administrative measures and infringements. By adopting the Law implementing Regulation No. 1169/2011 The European Parliament and the Council of 25 October 2011 on the provision of food information to consumers will ensure a high level of protection of the health and interest of Croatian consumers as well as in EU Member States by providing them with accurate, complete and clear information on the food offered to them on the market, thus enabling them to make a purchase decision. It is important to note that the Regulation of 13 December 2014 also provides for a transitional period for compliance with new consumer information requirements during which operators in the food business may use supplies of old packagings which do not comply with the new requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38330	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38331	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, the proposal for a Consumer Food Information Act with the final proposal for the Republic of Croatia is harmonising its rules in the field of labelling, advertising and presentation of food and nutrient food values with relevant EU rules since 2005. At that time, a Regulation on the labelling, advertising and presentation of food has also been adopted, and a Food Information Regulation has also been adopted. Based on that part, the Ministry of Agriculture has carried out an analysis and found that, as of 1 July 2013, the following regulations will be applied directly from 1 July 2013 in the area of information for consumers on food, i.e. in the area of labelling, advertising and food presentation: above all, the EU Regulation of 25 October 2011 and the Commission Regulation of 31 March 2004. When defining the fundamental issues identified by this law, we can first of all point point out that this is a proposal for a law that is the basis for ensuring a high level of consumer protection for food information, and also taking into account differences in consumer perception and their data needs. At the same time, ensuring a smooth functioning of the market. Also, this law lays down general principles, requirements and responsibilities relating to food information. Furthermore, ways to guarantee consumers the right to information and food information procedures taking into account the need to provide justified flexibility in order to respond to future developments and their request for information are also laid down. The proposal for a law also defines certain concepts by reference to the relevant regulations of Europe which will apply directly and directly after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The proposed law further defines the competent authorities and their tasks and the authorities responsible for carrying out official inspection checks within the meaning of the EU Regulation on 69/2011. and Regulation 608/2004. Given the fact that the regulation and the possibility to adopt national measures and national EU rules on individual issues which are not the same regulated by this proposal, the basis for the adoption of such rules is given. In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, the law also lays down the basis for the regulations, orders and guidance that will be necessary for the implementation of EU legal acts which will be adopted by the basis of the Regulation. The draft law clearly defines the actions of persons authorised to carry out official controls, depending on the non-compliance identified. Inconsistencies are divided according to the impact on consumer health and misleading consumers. The proposed law also determines a violation for legal persons, persons responsible for legal persons and natural persons and fines for committing offences. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposed law also marks the specificity of the time and process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and allows for flexible adaptation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia to EU legislation. In view of the need to bring legislation into line, what we have said, the Republic of Croatia with EU rules and ensuring the implementation of the EU acquis in the area of information for consumers on food pursuant to Article 161. The Rules of Procedure propose the adoption of the Food Consumer Information Act by emergency procedure. Here, too, on behalf of the HNS Club, we believe that this defines new relations to the relationship between the manufacturer-producer. And that is also important, and I think that this proposal of the Consumer Food Information Act, with the final proposal for a law, must be prepared for Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38332	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Club Vice President Željko Reiner. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38333	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the start of saying the HDZ Club will, of course, support the bill because it is actually a qualitative step forward in this area. In particular, it seems to me that it is good and that the practice that should probably be followed in a number of other laws that adopt EU legislation and apply in our country, which is that, following this law from 1 July of this year on information for consumers on food, i.e. on the area of labelling, advertising and food presentation, is actually directly applicable to EU regulations. In particular, this applies to Regulation 1169/2011. The European Parliament and the Council of 25 October 2011 which actually introduced a whole series of newspapers to protect food consumption in the EU, will, of course, be at a higher level to protect food consumption in Croatia. This regulation, therefore, about a year-and-a-half old, has introduced a whole series of newspapers from the fact that it has ensured consumer rights to information and that it is correct, clear,... information on the food to be consumed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, it simplified the rules on food labelling for the sake of uniform application in the European Union, defined a clear and legible indication of what was terribly important because we had witnessed that earlier in many European Union countries where there were rules that should be directly marked, it was marked with such letters, such as the size of the letters that no normal vision and especially someone who today had changed their eyesight so that they needed glasses, they were not able to read it at all. In addition, it guaranteed this Directive and the availability for the first time of data linking nutrition and health and allowing for the selection of food that meets individual’s nutritional needs, which is particularly important. So this primarily refers to the mandatory labelling of allergens in the list of ingredients and further emphasising the use of type of letters which clearly differ from the type of letter of the other ingredients. Examples of letters, styles or colours in the background. Names of food, place of origin and mandatory indication of the date of freezing for frozen meat, frozen meat preparations and frozen unprocessed fishery products are also something that was actually a significant newspaper in this directive when it was brought about about a year and a half ago, and it will in some way benefit our food consumption. One of the important aspects that I would like to highlight is what I already mentioned, which is readability and letter size. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And if the maximum surface area of the page is less than 80 square centimeters then the minimum height must be 0.9 millimeters. This is very important precisely for what I said earlier because the satisfaction of pure form to be indicated but in so small a letter that no one can actually see the average is completely pointless and therefore this regulation of the European Union, which we now directly accept is an important and good solution. I would, of course, point out again from the point of view of my basic profession, the importance of another newspaper which, then, a year and a half ago introduced this regulation, which is that the ingredients and substances that cause intolerance allergies must be listed. Namely, in the packaged food in the list of ingredients it must be so that it is clearly understood that it must be written in a font that differs from other ingredients and different backgrounds with a clear indication of the name of the substance and product. And in unpacked food should also be clearly highlighted ingredients and substances that may cause allergies and must, of course, be listed in the visible site. This especially applies to, for example, nuts, many people are allergic to nuts, hazelnuts, nuts, etc., almonds. One of the very important things is the same thing that will guarantee the always stated place of origin that defines Article 26. The European Regulation where this is particularly important for certain foods. We are aware of the recent scandals that have occurred in the European Union as well as the types of food that have not been mentioned and have not rarely been manipulated with the place of origin. I am particularly pleased that this will now introduce the obligation to make sure in Croatia, which is defined by Articles 29 to 35. The European regulations therefore necessarily state not only the energy value but also the fat content, saturated fatty acids that we know are harmful if they are in too much, carbohydrates, sugars and salt, which we also know that it is not good to consume in too much, which, unfortunately, Croatians, or Croatian citizens, are entering about three times as much as the World Health Organization recommends. Here now there will be an obligation to indicate therefore and the content of salt and saturated fat other than those of nutritious value and everything else that has been actually required of food products. So anyway, I think this is one step forward. And again, I would like to stress the advantage of the direct adoption of European regulations. And I think in some other laws we could go that way. We don't always have to invent hot water and make modifications in some things where they're not needed. Sometimes they are needed for different reasons of heritage, traditions, etc. but in some other spheres they are not necessary and yet we try too often to go into the adaptations of European regulations and some complementarity that rarely contributes to what it is intended to achieve. So I commend this time exactly this to apply a European regulation directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38334	Thank you, too. We have one replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Reiner, of course, should and should, and thank God that we are entering the European Union and that our legislation will be fully adapted to the European Union regulations. But, you know, here we talked about the paying agency a little while ago, and here we talked about the salaries being corrected or regulated by the principals. I expected that in this law, the minister would talk about how he would protect a million and three hundred people, and what the health value of food is in containers of garbage from which they take that food. How will he solve this problem? What will they say about that food? This food is a problem in Croatia today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38336	Thank you. We have an answer, Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38337	Well, Mr. Vice President. It is true that, unfortunately, today in Croatia, there is a large number of those who do not have a basic diet. It is true that we are witnessing that unfortunately many people feed on what they can get, not what would be good quality or what would guarantee their health. I can only hope that such an unsustainable situation for a large number of Croatian citizens will eventually be completed and that this steep fall which, the standard to which we are witnesses will not last for long. However, of course, I think that we all need to welcome the steps that are going towards guaranteeing as much rightness as possible and as much better food quality as possible, and for all of us sitting here, although we are in a catastrophicly small number, and for those who decide on it much stronger than we do, and that is the Croatian government to make sure that unfortunately this huge number of people who have nothing to eat, so they eat anything they can, and that they can finally achieve what we all, I am convinced, want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38338	Thank you, too. The HDSSB's positions will be told by Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38339	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, this is of course an important topic before our country's definitive entry into the EU, up to 1.7. The Consumer Food Information Act. And so far, we have witnessed that in Croatia different rules have been regulated in this legal area since 2005, this issue of the law on quality, adequate and complete information to consumers on food consumed daily. What is particularly important for this law, which is the direct implementation of the regulation, so the EU's directive in the legal legislation of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore something that is now here by us, according to this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, but it is only the beginning of what awaits us by Croatia's entry into the EU, there will be a lot of direct directives, instructions and decisions of the Council of the EU and of the Commission that we will directly implement in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. And it is important for us as the HDSSB's Club of Representatives that this positive assessment of this latest report on Croatia's EU entry is as it is, and we will implement all the laws from 1.7, so is this Food Information Act. What is important for the HDSSB club except what colleagues of previous clubs said about conditions, about information, timely information about what all consumers need to know when we become a full member of the EU. Last week, a question about certain laws on declarations that no longer have to be in the Croatian language was opened, these latest provisions of this law say that, therefore, the food placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia must also be marked in the manner of the regulations laid down in Article 1 of the Law and other specific regulations, which is the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, that they must be written in the Croatian language and in the Latin letter. So that is the recognition of Croatian as one of the full and equal languages of EU member states, is that more language labelling is allowed, but we discussed more than an hour of this issue last week. Well, this is one of these laws which, therefore, shows that our Croatian language will also be equal in the EU, and especially in this regard, as regards informing consumers about food they buy, they consume daily, so they use food in the Republic of Croatia. The truth is that the problem can be put on the other side in terms of time, the conditions of economic, the crisis in which we live, that this is something that is positive and we accept it, and as a club we will vote for this law, and there is always an example that unfortunately even by containers more of that bag where it writes healthy food, people today don't have the least to live for, eat. So here we hope that, apart from these laws until Croatia enters the EU and enters our countries into the EU, first and foremost, the economic situation will be improved, that people will be able to live normally, healthy and qualityly in our country. There have been great efforts made to become a full member of the EU and the former government, and Prime Minister Mrs Kosor and everyone who has worked so far, and this government needs to make efforts to really show that we are a country that takes care of our citizens, to take care of people living in the Republic of Croatia and tomorrow in the EU. The HDSB club accepts, therefore, this law, the direct implementation of the EU directive, all this is said in the proposed text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38340	Thank you, too. It is next to the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and representative of the HGS. Here you go, Mrs. Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38341	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Here after a full year I have the opportunity to turn from this pay phone, I will speak the name of the club of representatives, this time on behalf of the second club but with equal barbecue and equal flight because I think being a representative in the Croatian Assembly is a special honor that is indicated to rare people. So the Club I represent will support these amendments and additions to the law, that is, this law, the bill with the final proposal, which will, of course, cease to apply so far, the regulation that has promoted all the values that this bill has adopted today. As I just said before, the laws that are before us, and this one, once again prove that we have successfully completed our work, that we are becoming a member of the EU, that the Croatian language becomes 24. The EU's official language and this is now an additional acceleration in order to fully complete the work that was scheduled until the EU's entry on 1 July. Of course, a lot of work remains to be done following the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. What we should say is also in this proposal of the law that we will still have to work very patiently, consciously and qualityly because membership will simply open up a new space and a new framework. Why I'm all the time. Why, all the time as Prime Minister, while we unblocked the negotiations and, of course, continued to open and close certain chapters, I said that I think that by definitely entering the EU, it would be better to prove itself in one small segment and through this law. So surely it will improve the quality of life. This and this law prove that we will, in fact, further strengthen the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution. Look at the provisions that speak of human rights, the rights to a clean environment, a healthy environment, but then everything that's about what life means every day is that we have the right to know what we buy, what we pay, and how much of course we get for what we pay for. So we'll be safer in what we eat, safer in what our children eat. This is particularly important to us, and as we can see from this bill there are actually three groups I would say state reaction to certain market failures. So an immediate and instantaneous reaction is predicted, within two months and a response within a maximum of six months. What is of particular importance, of course, is also meant to be punished. In my opinion, punishment could be something more severe because for all those who want, they will, who are prepared to cheat their citizens should be struck very hard, of course without the rest and certainly without mercy. However, I have a question from Mr. Minister regarding the entry into force of most of the most important provisions. The most important provisions, the minister is gone. Unfortunately, I hope they come back, so the most important provisions of this law that apply to exactly what we're talking about and what we're talking about. So a reaction to the conscious or unconscious cheating of consumers, citizens, because all those provisions that my colleagues had warned about before me will actually come into effect on January 14, 2014 or January 2014. These are actually key provisions. Those are the provisions we welcome. So I said rightly, January 14, 2014. So 6 and a half months after Croatia becomes a member of the EU, the provisions that require the declaration to be legibly printed will actually begin to apply, so that all the ingredients of the product are very precise in the declaration, in order to specify the date to which a particular product is valid, production, in particular with the freezing, freezing of meat, possible consequences that it may cause, etc. So I don't see any reason, of course, to adapt and prepare for this, but this is a very simple law that we could certainly prepare, bring, vote last year. So my question remains why the most important provisions of this law which are the key to this law and which are actually improving life in the Republic of Croatia are starting to apply 6 and a half months after the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of the EU. Otherwise, because of the fundamental intensity of this law, we will accept it and vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38342	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, Branko Vuksic, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38343	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, this law is of multiple significance. First of all, this law regulates the right to information, to information. Consumers have the right to know, have the right to know what they eat, have the right to know what they buy. This law also concerns the indirect health of the nation. We know that the food was now and will be one of the most profitable jobs, and as soon as it's a lucrative job, as soon as that job can run a wider circle, it's absolutely certain that the biggest manipulations are possible. This law regulates food labelling, food advertising, food presentations and nutritious food values. Most importantly, the aim of this law is to protect consumers who buy, to protect them from getting adequate quality at that price because we know about everything we know about the price but for a little bit we know the real value. With food, this rule can be applied to food. It is very important to stress that Croatia is a specific country, that Croatia has a very large number of good laws, that in this Croatian Assembly laws are passed as on tape, that every day we improve laws, but the biggest problem is not to apply these laws. The other day we talked about the Consumer Protection Act, and then we also talked about food labelling, the most important problem is the lack of clarity in food labelling and the lack of information of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia about what they eat. It is therefore very important when this law enters into force the most important controls and measures are very important against those who cheat with the declarations. If the law is to be applied as it will be adopted in the Assembly then it is clear that Croatian citizens will eat better food or know what they eat and choose better food and then it is clear that they will no longer be able to fool themselves with food labelling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38344	Thank you, too. We're going to continue the debate, Miss twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38345	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is the law that will once again be brought into line with the EU in the hope that food safety will increase further and that the consumptions that eat but also we mean people, this law is about food intended for people, that they will be able to trust the declarations that are mentioned. What is food in reality? The answer to that question can be said that there are as many people on earth. We can agree with professionally or as laymen with legally defined definitions of food for public, rights or other needs but in private each of us keeps his opinion and his picture of what he considers to be food. So we know that we have baskets of food, halal food, vegetarian food, vegan food and any other food depending on religion, depending on where we live depending on it, and what I said earlier in the replica, unfortunately, most unfortunately now about our financial opportunities, or on the financial opportunities of a million and 300 people who are on the verge of hunger. For them, indeed, these definitions of food cannot be adapted to this law because they are unfortunately fed elsewhere. Contemporary society has been prevented from having problems aligning this social economic development with the production of sufficient quantities of food and preserving the environment, how to effectively preserve and prevent food-related diseases and food-related diseases and reduce the cost of health care and loss in society due to the consequences of the disease. The geographical location of Croatia and available natural resources and climate conditions favour the production of various foods and enable the supply of the population to significant quantities of food from domestic sources. Until the establishment and expansion of the trade network, the consumption of food and food habits of the population in particular in rural areas depended largely on local food production. A new approach to food safety has been set up by the adoption of the European Food Law or by the EC Regulations 178/02 of the EU Parliament and of the Council in 2002. The Republic of Croatia has taken over the EU acquis for the area of food safety in Chapter 12 - Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy and this is in reality the legislative framework set up by the adoption of the Food Law. The aim of this Food Act was indeed to ensure a high level of consumer protection, human and consumer interests in relation to food. Taking into account the differences in food supply, the processing and storage of food, and the transport and placing on the market. I would also refer to the safety of food in our large chains of trade where I have to say for a while that fruit and vegetable products have written the origin of food, but now again the origin of food is therefore fruit and vegetables we no longer see whether it is from Croatia or from some I have no idea what country it is. Well, here I would stress the importance and role of inspection in the tour. What personally offends me to come to the Adriatic and enter into a shopping house, it's real about the vicinity of the Straight Kotars, we can tell the largest producer of fruits and vegetables, and we find food from Spain, I don't know, China, India, the Netherlands, is that normal and is that quality that we can translate from the crows to one of the malls, so there's a short transport. This is about that one syntagma from field to table and HasAP. We have all this in place we have excellent regulation and with this law here we further want to improve regulation. But I think we should be more responsible within the competent institutions for control, more food-related responsibilities. Equally the floor, I'm glad to determine not only the fund of letters, but to determine the content, so far it has been, it really should have doubled to read in reality the food ingredient. So that's what we got, I'd say fake food. In this regard, the most, the most used food, is the most used food for the purposes of... Can I have a moment, please, colleague... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't know his name. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38346	Please, my colleague, let's allow her colleague to discuss this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38347	He doesn't hear now he's in Europe now. I'm sorry, it's a little distracting. It's just too loud. I was going to say, the most false food on the declarations was, say, and it was, until it was warned, and it was like vegetarian food, so let's say the soy that had GMOs in it. And, of course, after all the studies, we have and competent at the Food Biotechnology Faculty, we have laboratories that we can verify the correctness of food, or products that are offered, and see what's written on a declaration that really fits the extent of this harmfulness in all of that. I think we need to act a lot more on consumers, point out, consumers, but also show the inspection that it simply visits what I once once again asked for the inspection to start doing its job again, to tour trade chains, to visit markets. Because today we're buying I don't know a carrot from the Netherlands and we're at a market that doesn't understand what they say about some vegetables that it's domestic when we know very well what it can produce in the continental part, even if it's in plastics or what can be produced in the Mediterranean. So we need to have faith that the state will take care of us consumers and we must also point to problems. And I am glad to see it, and because we are entering the European Union again, I must say, in order to bring our laws even better in line, no matter what happens in the European Union, there are many food concessions and food fakes. But here it is, at least you can talk about it thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38348	Thank you. Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, the European Union has laid down directives, food laws, declarations, ingredients and everything else to be declared with the food product. But they still eat under a company of beef meat products. And instead of lamb, there are often dog meats. Despite all these control mechanisms that Europe has and which we are talking about today and adopting. Clearly, we are all in favour of having quality food and it is clear that on those declarations, prints, font 6, because 1.2 millimeters as the minister said it is the 6th in Word, so now, you take the Durbin or the microscope to read the ingredients or the term of the food product. We have here public statements from the minister, former minister, that beef that has been in the freezer for several years, in liquid nitrogen at minus 40 degrees Celsius is healthy for consumption. But is the word healthy the same as the quality. So it's not just that this beef that's imported, I mean from Brazil is healthy, but it's a question of the quality of that beef that's been in the freezer for a year. Or on, in the freezers at minus 40 degrees. Now, I'm asking you and the minister in particular, Mr. Minister, is not listening, so I'm asking him how the VAT on bread, medicine, milk, etc., came up in accordance with European laws, so 5% of the 1st. 1. 2013 and this Consumer Food Information Act will only enter into force 1. 1. 2014 means a year apart. Although Croatia, I hope that more resolutions and amendments will not be in Croatia enter the European Union on 1 July. Is this guessing still for those who are just like this who importing meat into Croatia and selling it here? Is that a good idea for a lobby like that? Why not as of July 1st if it can't be retrograde since January 1st this year? Why not from 1 July 2013 The inspections are ready, they exist and everything exists. The law exists, the directives exist, we adopt them here, and by 1 July they can be applied. But obviously, I'm not going to insinuate, but it seems to me that it still affects some food importers. And that's unquality food in Croatia. And this 1.2 millimeter well it's really, I've seen it here in Word a little while before it's a 6's, you have to have really glasses, especially me older to read close or we have to have longer arms, to read ingredients and durations. What do we actually have producers, some food producers? Here, let's get some yogurt. We all know about those plastic yoghurt glasses we've always bought, used, that I'm not going to advertise to any company but they've been hiding under the grain like this, they've reduced instead of 2 dcl now he's 1.80. And whoever reads it, who looks at it, we think yogurt is yogurt, a glass of yogurt is a glass of yogurt but it's not. She's no longer 2 dcl but 1.80 dc. We are obliged to read what is written on the product, so they say, but if what is really said about some font or the size of a 1,2 mm letter, see what 1.2 mm is, that's the smallest item. Furthermore, when we talked about GMO food, then we asked with the amendment as HDSSB's club for each GMO product in the same letters as the product's name, so the same size of the letter to write that it's a GMO product so whoever likes to choose. But that amendment has not been adopted either, it was rejected by the will of the majority in the Croatian Parliament clearly, through the will of the SDP and satellites. I remember the time of war when we were getting cans without any sign of a meat can. I even doubt it and I think when I tried it myself because it was such a time, that it was even food that was for domestic animals but it was given over, so Europe or some others were getting rid of that food and we were getting it so without a declaration. Here are the people who are here from BiH, too, so that taste was really like today's pedigree or I don't know what. But these times have passed and new times have come, for Croatia to enter the European Union, and now when we talk about inspections and bans or penalties, immediately, currently a ban on selling, then a two-month trial, a trial period, whether a product or this one will be fixed at 6 months, it seems to me that Mrs Kosor has spoken of it. So there are three categories, we adopt those directives, but you can see what's more obvious that this deadline is 1.1.2014, so that these agreed imports are done. I know that there was also imports of pork from Bulgaria per euro per kg, half of it and that there was no place in Croatian refrigerators how many frigo wagons came from Bulgaria but had to be installed in Zagreb where I operated on the worker who broke his leg because he fell off the skeleton after the installation and when installing temporary coolants here in Zagreb, so he told me what was going on. Through the European Union, this pork, which is over 6 months of age, is not to be used, with us laughing, and here we will have a chance to use it by the New Year. Now, I wonder what else will happen and who will control the food that in the markets, as they say in the markets, will be thrown away by the maids, sister-in-law, etc. as unusable for sale, and people mass buy it and use it. Or when they dig through the container looking for food, there is a declaration, and a million and 400 thousand Croatian citizens according to official results are poor. And we now control those who buy, but what about this million and 400, or part of them of a million and 400, is how we're going to control there the possibility of a variety of diseases. As we know about the zoonoses, we're not going to talk now, etc., and you know Mrs. Sumrak, you're a veterinarian by profession, what are zoonoses, so diseases that pass through animals and people. Furthermore, in Europe, a debate is being held not on frozen meat for half a year or a year but on stressful meat. Which means stressful meat, so they prescribe the conditions of transporting live animals, although they have not been placed in trucks by the tapestirung, so that they do not shake or shake to make meat more quality. That's what this is about. So the regulation of the European Union has yet to go beyond that, especially with regard to a food product called meat and meat processing, and yet horsemeat happens to them, but instead of lambs selling dog or dogmeat, I don't know how it is now invented according to the new spelling. So I'm still convinced that our Croatian product, food and every best and best quality, so let's let whatever they say that I advertise our Croatian here, that's true. And I've tried it in the world, both of them, and thirdly, Croatian is the best and let's buy it. But what's here is the minister coming from Luxemburg, so what he said himself in what he said, I wonder what it is when we talk about Croatian products. Here is just the closing sentence, which led the negotiators who probably went on a trip there, the previous negotiators with the European Union that we are now struggling with a Slavonic tower to register it as Slavonic, and the Slovenians have Slovenian cuisine. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] We will have problems and now the tower to register it, not to talk about the teran, promenade and all other products that are really not to say the indigenous Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38350	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Miss Sumrak, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, sir, as soon as I know you were just as European Parliamentarian as an observer and now you will be our European Parliamentarian. No, you didn't come in. I'm sorry, then. All right. Namely, you were talking about healthy food. I just wanted to tell you as a doctor that this definition of healthy food does not exist, there is a hygienic proper food that is safe for human health and a hygienic malnutrient that is of course not safe for human health and that is your definition that, people always talk about healthy and unhealthy food. These are not definitions if we're going to talk about food definitions. And now I wanted to tell you something about our negotiators who have actually negotiated certain products, meaning they enter the EU under protection. Here, let me do this. 7 products are registered and it is Istrian prosciutto, varazdinsko želje, Polish soparnik, Zagorje turkey meat, potatoes, karst prosciutto and držnik prosciutto. The publication in the National Journal includes 4 products: extra virgin oil from Cres, ogulinic acid cabbage, Dalmatian prosciutto and baranja tower. In the process of solving one product is Dalmatian olive oil. Products in the process of solving them are 7: Pag cheese, Dalmatian maraska, aquatic extra virgin olive oil, Istrian extra virgin olive oil, virgin olive oil Valalta, extra virgin olive oil from Poreč and viritic peppers. In these 7 look colleagues now if you remember these 7 bits in it is the same as you mentioned the prosthetic and the prosthesis, as you mentioned, that in these years and a half, action was needed to be taken actively in reality to end, that these products could also go under this name to the EU. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] A colleague should be prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38352	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38353	It's been negotiated, I'm talking to you. But the minister, he gets it, he already knows it. I don't have to tell the Minister when he knows. He knows it's supposed to...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38354	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, my colleague Grubisic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38355	We also have oil from the Bosnian ship. I don't know who's going to control him that's being transferred across the Slavonski Brod Bridge - the Bosnian Ship. We have red sugar there, which is well imported in large quantities when the brandy is roasted in the Slavonic ship and in the Slavonian villages. We've got juices out there that are actually almost not gonna say health problems, but almost like that. Furthermore, have you ever seen a colleague of the twilight sardines in a can from Nis, a sardine factory in Nis. No, you see these are, that they're also exactly the right health care. But when the former minister, I won't, he doesn't mention it here that it's meat, so it's not harmful for health and it's been in the freezer for two years at -40 it's already irony and a little mockery for our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38356	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38357	Dear fellow Grubisic, you were talking about frozen food, frozen meat and let's link it to the import lobby. If we prohibit the consumption of longer frozen meat in Europe, frozen for more than 6 months, and the law is that we can, i.e. the regulation that we can eat for more than 6 months, then it means that the meat that is frozen in the EU is actually being disposed of by the EU and given to Croatian trash. An import lobby under quotes buys that meat, gets it almost bad and sells it here to create extra profit. And what does the Croatian State do? The Croatian state protects and allows for what is not allowed in the EU, but is often referred to as EU regulations. When it means this is another proof that the import lobby is reigning in Croatia, that the import lobby imposes laws and that there are very well-scheduled parliamentary representatives protecting the import lobby, who raise their hands for such laws. In the EU, however, the latest examples that we have seen prove exactly the opposite, that large-scale capital, the food producers that I have previously told the most profitable job, are clearly misleading consumers, or citizens, but not necessarily to foreign citizens, even citizens of their own country. That's why it's very important that what I used to say about food control is how we refer to food so that I don't agree that we need someone drunk to stick to those definitions of food. If something is not good for Europe, why should the garbage be good for Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38358	Thank you. We don't have an answer. You didn't report your colleague Grubisic, you forgot. This is what we're done with reporting for discussion. And the ultimate minister. Short Minister, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38359	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's a very brief review. I see that the most real issues were related to Article 14 of this provision on the application of certain articles of this law which will enter into force on 13 December 2014. We're talking about the whole law to set up, we've heard different dates, but only a certain part of the inspection provisions. It's very simple. This delay is identical to the application of the provisions of the regulation itself. So, we were not making up something new, but we were, as a rule, incorporating what the regulation itself provides that certain provisions of this are applied with the date of 13 December 2014, which means that it is a transitional period and that the entities in the food business that are working so far will not be without control. As far as markings and controls and all of them are under the Food Act and boredom. In this part, it is envisaged that compliance with EU legislation is a regulation that will apply to other countries as well as to the Republic of Croatia. By noting that that deadline is the end date until which all must be harmonised for food labelling provisions, it shall then be fully applied. The law itself represents a full harmonisation and will aim to ensure a high level of health and interest protection of Croatian consumers as well as in all other EU Member States by providing them with accurate, complete and clear information on the food offered to them on the market and thus enabling them to make a decision on the purchase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38360	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38361	Mr. Minister, I apologize for making such a mistake in showing the date or date as Croatian is said in connection with the application of this law. This is what you said even worse. So, the whole of 2014. This lobby that Vuksic and I were talking about has the possibility that what he's doing so far to import half-breeds or garbage from food, to continue to supply us with such food. And they need an adjustment actually from a year and a half and more. So I don't get it, I don't get it, I'm asking the question again if we're entering the EU on July 1st of this year, which is why the application of December 13, 2014, so in early 2015. In addition to the reason I was saying that there is and really starts to be a man asking himself why and we begin to doubt the intentions of determining exactly that date on December 13, 2014. Is that really a guess?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38362	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38363	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Grubisic, if you had read more closely, would have seen the law enter into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. Only part of the specifics has prolongat as well as for all other EU members. The same marking, inspection, control, penalties shall apply under the existing law, i.e. from 1.07th in accordance with this law. No bargaining talk, we can only talk about whether all our inspection services need and need to be even more effective. And also, if we are talking about the way and the responsibility, then I specifically pointed out that the responsibility for informing consumers about food that food operators have in all stages of food production and placing on the market is essential to food operators that put food on the market. We have also seen through these cases that you have said incorrect products, in which way this affects those who place food on the market which is not whether it is healthy or not responding to the quality to which the food is declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38364	I thank the ministers and you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38365	Final proposal of the Consumer Information Act on food, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 348. The debate on the text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 108 votes in favour and 1 vote against the adoption of the Consumer Information Act on food in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38366	We move to a united debate in agreement with the clubs of the representatives - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 346; - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the financing of the water economy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 347; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Is the representative of the motionor, Minister Jakovina, introduced? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38367	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Water Act was published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture in the period 15 May to 15 June 2012 for the purpose of consultation with the interested public. A number of sectoral meetings and public debates were also held in several cities in the Republic of Croatia. This law was sent to the European Commission for an opinion prior to the reference to the procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as prescribed by the procedure for the adoption of the laws provided for in the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the acquisition and implementation of the EU acquis for 2013 and is in line with the comments of the European Commission. The adoption of this law is conditioned by the need to further comply with the EU acquis, i.e. the Water Framework Directive and what needs to be done before the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. Furthermore, compliance with the Law on concessions, NN 143/2012, compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was adopted after the conclusion of the negotiations in negotiating Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. Furthermore, by further arrangement of land particles belonging to the aquatic good, the discontinuation of aquatic good status, the entry of water goods into the land book, the management of public water goods in the port area and forests in public water good, and the obligation to supply data on public water goods particles in the Central Register of State Property. Furthermore, by improving the provisions aimed at simplifying and speeding up the procedure for the exercise of the right of hire, the lease of services and the right to build on public water goods for economic or personal purposes, that is to say, to speed up the procedure for public water good operations in the public interest, and also to private interventions which are of particular public interest by means of a local authorisation. Furthermore, improving the provisions relating to the management of irrigation buildings and the detailed... draining with the aim of creating a prerequisite for meeting the requirements for the use of EU funds for those projects. In view of the lack of administrative capacity and financial resources, the county was unable to assume legal responsibility for the management of these buildings, so the constructions for detailed melliorative disposal under the transitional provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the 2005 Water Act and the 2009 Water Act managed Croatian waters and the irrigation buildings were outside the organised management system. Therefore, this law proposes that constructions for detailed meliorative disposal owned by units of local, regional self-governments operate Croatian waters for a transitional period of three years, in which they have the ability to train buildings for detailed melliorative disposal and to transfer them to and to the management of units of the regional self-government. This law also proposes that the building for irrigation owned by the regional and regional self-government units, as well as mixed water structures, be managed by the company of Croatian waters, hydrotechnical facilities, the maintenance of buildings for detailed melioration disposal is carried out in the framework of the water management plan of the Croatian Waters and the construction and maintenance programme for irrigation is carried by the representative bodies of the county on a proposal from the manager. For this model of governance is also proposed a transitional period of three years. Furthermore, by simplifying the process for the economy, by abolishing the issue of water legal licences for chemicals which are already issued after use in the water, because the acts of other public authorities have already been issued for imports of production into the market. More effective and faster procedures for giving an opinion on the spatial plans for their compliance with the water management plan have changed the provisions that can be obtained in Croatian waters instead of the water ministry, since they cover the entire Republic of Croatia with their structure. By enabling the exploitation of gravel and sand in an area significant to the water regime in view of a three-year concession contract ban if these procedures do not change natural processes, and if they serve the maintenance of water and waterways for the mandatory implementation of the relevant environmental impact processes, i.e. to assess the acceptability of the ecological network according to environmental and natural protection regulations. Explosion is still prohibited in unregulated and supply areas, allowed to be exploited only under mining regulations. With this procedure, we are equating legislation with countries on the environment, reducing imports of gravel and sand. According to estimates, in the last four years, gravel and sand have been imported worth around 500 million kuna, most from Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, Slovenia and Austria. These companies do not have to open parallel companies in neighbouring countries in order to exercise the right to concession for the exploitation of gravel and sand, which has been a common case so far and to extract the specified material from the same border waterways. At the same time, stricter measures are proposed regarding illegal exploitation because the system is as good as we monitor it well. By negotiating works on cleaning and removing applications in the area of importance for the water regime, separately in the procurement process with all able bidders and not only those who have had solutions in meeting specific conditions, i.e. the famous licence as so far. And when there is a need for gravel and sand to build public buildings of interest for the Republic of Croatia and a better way of making gravel and sand available on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. By further regulating the provisions relating to decisions on the protection of the water source for drinking and wastewater disposal decisions. Furthermore, by improving the provisions relating to the adoption of plans for the construction and maintenance of municipal water buildings and the ownership of them. The owners of the buildings concerned can only be public water suppliers since they already own over 90% of the municipal water buildings. It is therefore due one year from the date of entry into force of this law to units of local self-government by which they are obliged to transfer municipal water buildings owned by a water service provider. In addition, the detailed arrangements for the provisions on public supply and public disposal and for the extension of the model for the establishment of water service providers and the expansion of activities. The founders of water service providers may be exclusively units of local self-government or a company, i.e. an institution that is the founder of local self-government units. The existing water service suppliers established under the Law on the municipal economy may continue their activities until 31 March 2015. The activities of water service providers but not commercial activities have also been expanded and can now also be further examined for the health of drinking water for their own needs and their own waste water, the execution of connections, the measurement of water and the production of energy for their own needs. The aim of these amendments is to improve the standard of provision of water services in an economical and efficient way, to ensure full reimbursement of the costs of providing water services, to enable the absorption of funds from EU funds, i.e. to meet the requirements set out in the implementation plan for the Water Directives by 2023, we have the possibility to invest 4.5 billion euros in accordance with the obligations of the Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In addition, the process of adding consent to decisions on the price of water services, the harmonisation of legal status and the subject-matter of water service suppliers or the separation of public water supply and disposal activities from other municipal activities shall be subject to the deadline by 31 December 2013. And thus create preconditions for reforming the water sector, unifying suppliers in service areas after the adoption of the Service Areas Regulation. Additional arrangement of the provisions on the status and public powers of the Water Services Council as an independent regulator in order to ensure... in the area of determining the price of water services and the development fee in order to achieve full reimbursement of the cost of water services, which is the basis, which is the basic requirement of the Water Framework Directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These provisions strengthen the role of the Regulatory Agency, i.e. the water service regulator, of the Water Services Council, which has been in place since 2010, as part of the principle of full reimbursement of the costs of water services and the implementation of the plan, the implementation of the water transport directive. Since the debate is united, I will also say a few sentences on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act. The procedure for the public introduction was as was the case with the Water Act itself, and the adoption of this Funding Act is conditioned to comply with the provisions of the Law on the General Administrative Procedure of the "National Journal" 47/2009. which is a commitment after the closure of the accession negotiations in Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. Furthermore, the biggest news is actually discharging the economy of parafiscal burdens by removing certain payment obligations, above all I mean the compensation for the accession and water protection fee. Liaison fee paid by the investor or owner of the building or other property which is connected to the municipal and water buildings... water supply or disposal of waste water shall be discontinued. [[You don't understand a word.]] There are now two development fees at the local level and this fee for accession and development fees. And the income from the fees in question is used to build municipal water buildings. The investor or owner of the building is required under the Water Act to pay the actual cost of connection to the municipal water building, charged by the water service provider. Therefore, the proposer of this law considers that there is no need for the bonds to pay the actual cost of accession and the parafiscal undertaking for accession, the fee for accession, given that the system of financing and construction of municipal water buildings is central. Compensation for the use of water and water protection fees and at local level, development fee sufficiently designed closed and complete. All the projects we made last year, and we are talking about the total value of nearly 2 400 million kuna projects that were made in Croatian waters and were done at the level of funding at least 90% of Croatian Waters, and 10% of the units of local self-government so that also by removing this double fee we wanted to help our citizens, as well as potential investors with physical and legal persons working in the economy. The second fee to be abolished is the compensation for the protection of water paid by persons who produce or import plant protection products and place them on the market of the Republic of Croatia in order for Croatian shareholders to be in a level playing field with economic operators in EU Member States, given the obligation to pay the compensation in question which is not prescribed there. The third thing or feature of this law is to ensure stable sources of funding for the maintenance of buildings owned by a unit of regional self-government and for a detailed melioration drain. Since the entry into force of the law, i.e. from 1 January 2010 to today Croatia's waters have financed the maintenance of buildings for detailed melliorative disposal from the revenue from the water management fee and have not brought the buildings in question into functional condition and handed them over to the management of units of regional, regional self-government. The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act stipulates that Croatia's waters are due within 3 years of the entry into force of the same law and to submit to the management of the building in question to the units of regional self-government. This law therefore proposes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopt a regulation to determine, among other things, the height and the method of calculating the compensation for the melioration disposal. During the same period Croatia's water will carry out the calculation and charge for the melioration disposal, and the revenue from the fee in question, revenue from Croatian waters and will be used to maintain the buildings for details of the melioration drain according to the principle of solidarity and championship for the purposes of the national territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the buildings, the compensation for irrigating buildings, this law prescribes the payment of the irrigation fee for irrigated agricultural land, which is available for irrigation from these buildings. The change in question is expected to affect the improvement and management of the public irrigation system owned by the unit of regional self-government, as well as the percentage of agricultural land treatment covered by the irrigation system. The last provision is to comply with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, which is in line with Directive 2000/60. The EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy, so-called the water framework directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38368	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38369	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I wanted to ask one question because about twenty days ago, representatives of Croatian waters visited the water buildings on Rab Island and then once they said that at the level of the Republic of Croatia they would start 21. Holding that will take care of water supply and disposal. We don't see such a story in this Water Act, so I'm interested in whether it's really the government's intention and how they think about the business of municipal societies, what role they would play in the water supply and disposal system at the time, or whether it was just some style figure of that gentlemen from the Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38370	Thank you. Here's the Minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38371	Thank you. Dear fellow legislators, the law creates assumptions, and after the evaluation of the study that is about uniting water areas and selecting models, one of the models that are considered most rational at this stage of production that has been presented by the consultants themselves is the unification of some 21 suppliers, will be determined in... But this law, if you have read it well, gives the assumption that a reform of the service provider in the water economy is also being made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38372	Thank you. And the next replica is Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38373	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates. So look, according to the Rules of Procedure under which this Parliament and the Budget Act each draftr of the law must also specify the means necessary for the implementation of this law. And now it's like a parrot or some kind of photocopier pulling up, you don't need funds. However, Mr. Vice-President, I would like to warn you of one thing here, Croatian waters are not financed from the state budget, Croatian waters have their own financial plan, which is an integral part of the consolidated balance sheet of the state budget. And when I talk about laws relating to Croatian water, which are an institution, which also has its own sources of income, then in the assessment of the necessary resources, it cannot possibly stand to just the state budget, but must first of all stand to say that there is no need to secure new funds in the financial plan of the Croatian Waters. Because if I'm not mistaken, when we discuss the state budget, we discuss the financial plan, and we adopt that financial plan. What is the subject of this law on amending and supplementing the water economy law is the original incomes of Croatian waters and therefore these funds are based on their financial plan. So he can't stand here at all. I am surprised that our committees are also missing this kind of thing as well, because we have formally satisfied the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and of the Law, and in principle we are talking about something that is not perfectly the subject of this law. Because this law and all that is being funded in this law and amendments and additions to the law is the subject of the financial plan of the Croatian Waters. Therefore, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, I would ask that this change be made, if anything else is added here, nor in the financial plan of the Croatian waters, because this provision simply does not stand because this has nothing to do with the state budget, nothing to do with this law. These are all in the financial plan of the Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38374	We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38375	Thank you, dear colleague, for your consolidated budget, you said so yourself. Croatian waters are outside the budget user of the state budget but the provision I speak in this section is that there are no new damages to the state budget. We have also said that I have mentioned 4.5 billion euros available to us and through the powers of the Constitution, or through the proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy, predicts the quality of funding of all the projects that we are doing and the possibility of absorbing these funds, and we are talking about 70% of the funds on these projects that we will withdraw from the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38376	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor before? If you don't, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HNS representative Petar Baranovic's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38377	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Mr. Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. On behalf of the HNS Club, a few words about this united point, i.e. on the proposal of two laws, are very important for every society and so on Croatian. I don't think there's any need to elaborate how legal the water management framework is. Legal framework for water supply management, water conservation, water source essential. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the water law which, in fact, has the intention or need to comply with the EU Water Framework Directive, brings some newspapers in the water management sphere, brings some newspapers and brings some corrections that have proved to be the necessary basis of experience with the previous legal frameworks. Especially when it comes to the management of gravel and sand from water streams. This law of the HNS club will support because we believe it brings several essential elements, firstly apostrophe, which simplifies certain procedures, simplifies certain procedures when it comes to economic activity related to water well-being, simplifies what is very important and procedures for granting consent to spatial plans and we know that any removed obstacle and any simplification of this process generally does not only in the context of these laws bring improvement for economic processes and investments in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for these laws also harmonizes with the general administrative procedure laws, as well as with the new law on concessions that we recently adopted in this House of Commons. What was particularly in my eyes is the disorder and illogicalness that ruled in the domain in the area of the extraction of the exploitation of gravel and sand. We have often witnessed as Mr. Minister said in his opening statement the situation in which some of our companies, entrepreneurs found a way to use licenses in neighbouring countries' border areas, to extract gravel, to extract sand without proper control and to release it to the market, at the same time, of course the same traffic financially did not go through the financial system and the tax system, and very often there was no possibility of delivery of such materials which, when removed according to appropriate conditions, had special value. Here I will mention an example of gravel which is extremely attractive, extremely necessary for the regulation of maritime goods and in the preparation of the tourist season on all better decorated beaches in the Republic of Croatia, so I am talking about Adriatic beaches. We were in a situation where there were lagers in Croatian waters and we couldn't get the same gravel because it was legally forbidden to let it into traffic. That was one absurd. What the HNS of course expects is that the criminal provisions of this law are strictly applied to those who will violate very particularly in this area of the legal norm. We believe that it must also be clear by sublaw that under which conditions gravel and sand can be extracted, so that it is not exclusively taken out of the profit-making initiative, regardless of the coincidences that such extraction could be uncontrollably and beyond the postulates of the profession, regardless of what condenses it might leave by the eco system. So we stress that in this area it is necessary to pay very much attention not to do harm without benefiting from it. What I also welcome to these laws, which is to ensure stable income for local self-government individuals in order to improve the irrigation system in the Republic of Croatia, because we are very well aware that Croatian agrarian and agriculture except for all the problems and burdens it has, which Croatian farmers today have, are not competitive among other things, very often because of the insufficient irrigation system, or that we are according to the percentage of agricultural areas that are under the irrigation system among the last on the list of European countries. Thus, it is inadmissible, editing the financial framework and creating the assumption that such a system is developing, we consider it extremely important for the Croatian economy and for Croatian agriculture. We also welcome the additional regulation of the provisions relating to the protection of water streams, we believe that this is extremely important. The level of anthropological influence today in all parts of the land and water ecosystem system is extremely large and in this respect we welcome every effort and every new legal mechanism that will improve water protection as something that is essential for every society and ours. We also welcome the reduction of certain burdens of parafiscal burdens that are sometimes even double, triple-charged by individual components of the economy or economy as a whole. We believe that any discharge of Croatian businessmen that goes towards improving their position tomorrow on the common European market and creating better assumptions about being competitive with EU counterparts is important. Generally speaking, we have no objection to the text of this law. This newspaper, which was introduced in it, we consider it a positive step and the HNS Club will certainly support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38378	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38379	Thank you very much. Comrade Baranovic, you said you supported this law. You're the mayor of a town in Sibenik, I don't know if you've read it, but the intention of this law is in some way delegating powers in a manner of municipal society. We hear now 21 holding, water supply and draining them, obviously to you dump or trash and cemetery by it if I understand it well, and then to abolish some fees such as the connection fee because there is a let's say another imposition, and that's the development fee. I don't know if all units of local self-government in Croatia have a development fee. Some have, I guess there are those they don't have. The connection fee here is declared parafiscal and no one wants to say that it is the part, secondary platoon when Croatia's leaders finance your master's, pump station what I know about the submarine drop, etc. when we solve the drain system then that secondary water to the final consumer is financed, who, municipal societies and units of local self-government because Croatian waters always say it is not their part. And now you're giving up that parafiscal charge as the minister says in favor of what? Who will pay the cost of building these powerful connections that are actually the reason that everything that the state helps to build would be operational? It goes to the expense of utility companies. And then the units of local self-government in the ownership of the municipal infrastructure that was being built because they had the right to finance from their budgets, but they must not have any more shares in ownership, to God, not to be over these kind of infrastructures, which, to raise mortgages or to borrow local self-government. I think we're creating chaos within the communal societies again, and we don't really know how it's going to end today, because the minister says it's just for study, and some are already talking about what models are going to be. It's 21 holding at the county level to manage water supply and disposal. It's completely insane.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38380	Thank you. We have Peter Baranovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think we have a different perception of local self-government units. I am a unit of local self-government as a mayor and I welcome every discharge of citizens, and it is the task of us working in local self-government units to find, in such circumstances, a way for the service of citizens to function. We have in particular in the town of Sibenik a seduction fee and I believe that our citizens have been quite burdened by the price of water and sewage, not only in Sibenik but in general, and that any discharge in this respect is going to be better. As for the financing of projects not only of the Master's but also of the other ones you listed, we do not complain about Croatian waters in the town of Sibenik. We believe that the existing models they have offered and in co-financing projects of 90% on the burden of Croatian waters, and only 10% on the burden of the municipal company so far are the units of local self-government simply the maximum correct co-financing model. I believe you may look around you in a wider environment of countries that are around us to rarely find such a way of funding compared to local self-government units. I therefore believe that the units of local self-government when it comes to funding water supplies are not overloads. As for the formation of a circuit at the county level, a potential model of 21 holding companies as you have called it, it should be seen if this is something we are referring to based on the provisions of the EU acquis with which we have aligned this law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38382	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, Nansi Tyreli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38383	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's this bill of law that we have before us, which is about water that already has a number of amendments as such and contains 299 articles now announces as many as 155 amendments, which means that more than 50% of the laws are changing. A law that regulates such an important area as the water economy should, without any doubt, lay down clear rules for anyone who is obliged to comply with these rules and that law. In addition to how many times in this House we have concluded that the law that changes most of the text or one third or more of the text will be prepared as a whole of the new law. So that this final document is understandable and simple to follow all actors concerned. By adopting these changes, I'm afraid there will be very little to understand again. When reading the proposed law in question, which is like such a confusing and which is such a very good platform for some kind of will. It is not clear in the truth why the legislator wants to adopt such a law. Respecting all good intentions by carefully reading new provisions, it seems that if this law is adopted, it will be the ideal ground for illegal actions because it leaves too much legal void and indeterminateness which, as such, leaves room for abuse of the rules set out in the law itself. This law places certain activities, such as the extraction of gravel and sediment, in a privileged position which is not justified in any way. The adoption of this Law of Croatian Water will make it even more independent in its work, i.e. an even more independent institution than it is now that we believe that it is not the right decision at all. In this way, monitoring the activities and affairs of Croatian Waters will be even more difficult and it would be wise to do just the opposite. Since Croatia's waters carry out public-interest jobs and should not be independent of the state's own supervision. And why is this proposal for a Water Law even referred to in an emergency parliamentary procedure when it comes to one of the most important laws in the field of environmental protection, respecting all compliance with European directives. There is a very big difference between the draft law that has been made available to the public and this proposal since May and it would certainly be good if a new public debate was organised in line with the regulation on information and public participation and public interest in environmental protection issues. We believe that in the case of the adoption of such an important law as this Water Act, it is very important for the whole document to be made available to the public before the Parliament procedure itself. In addition, we are warned by various green associations, or activists, who have dedicated their will and time to the preservation of nature, but obviously we do not need to listen to anyone. One proposal for a strategic investment law of the Ministry of Economy, namely its 18th article, allows for the release of public goods into the hands of private ownership if it is found to be essential for the implementation of the strategic investment project. Real estates owned by the Republic of Croatia, including forests and forest land and agricultural land, public roads and also the public water well needed for the implementation of the strategic project, shall be made available by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the local permit or corresponding spatial plan, and may, for the purpose of the implementation of the strategic project, alienate them by means of a direct contract and establish on them the real rights of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides. That's what the article 18 says. Draft draft law on strategic investment projects. The law also stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must consult with the competent ministry or a legal person authorised to manage public goods. This proposal for a law so far provides for Article 16(6) to be amended and reads as follows: "Contracts on rent, lease, service and the right to build on public water good are made by Croatian waters on behalf of the Republic of Croatia and a copy of the contract is delivered to the Ministry.". You justify this by the fact that Croatia's waters have administrative capacity to carry out these and such jobs. The clarifications here are about the use of water goods for personal or economic purposes. At present, it needs permission issued by the Government and is now transferring this proposal to Croatian waters. How justified is this transfer of responsibility from the government to Croatian water in the first place. Article 16a, which clarifies that such a change will speed up public investment and also enable private investors to meet the requirements of all local permits more quickly. It is stated in the explanation that the amendments to the Water Law are going in the same direction as for example the provisions of the new Nature Protection Act. Both laws thus aim only to accelerate investment, more specifically in both laws are investment priorities but not to protect natural resources. It is also changed that the previous opinion, in agreement with the spatial plans of all levels and other development plans with the water management plans, is no longer given by the Ministry of Water but by Croatian water for the sake of efficiency and faster adoption of spatial plans. As much as someone says this is good, we don't really think it is. Because this turns out to be gone, that we don't need any more simple plans because it's obvious that everyone can change them how they like it depending on their current needs. For example, the municipality of Krsan changed the county spatial plan of Istria, contrary to this existing county spatial plan because it is very important to make use of the space paid by HEP at the expense of the future Plomin C thermal power plant. And no one is responsible for anything. The saddest thing is that citizens are no longer safe, their private investments are obviously not investments of strategic importance that mean anything to anyone in our country. He's worried about something else in this law. The amendments stipulate that cleaning and removal works are applied from the waterway, when there is a need for gravel and sand from the waterway to build public buildings of interest for the Republic of Croatia. Prior to that part of the law, Baranovic praised it and said it was good to avoid certain wills, however, just how justified this practice is and how self-willing it is. This literally means that gravel and sand are not extracted in the event of the need for cleaning, but when the need for construction arises. If we treat a private entity as someone who doesn't work well because it takes out that resource, then in this case, if the state does, it's justified. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Such an amendment is contrary to being alone of the Water Act because unless a water permit is issued for the placing on the market of chemicals it will also be difficult to control the release of these substances into water, thus increasing the risk of water pollution. If such changes to the laws that we receive in the process follow the government's promise to reduce administrative barriers to large investors and thus contribute to the investment climate, then they are certainly not good. They are not good because by laying down legal provisions only for the purpose of large investments and large investors, we are destroying everything we have been building for years and forgetting that our biggest investors are actually citizens that we have maximum marginalised by such laws, not even thinking for a moment about their everyday lives, the damages they have suffered because of the floods, for example, their investments that they have realised by believing in the spatial plans and strategies of the development of their municipalities, cities or counties, their investments in holiday houses, for example, and now they are not at all sure whether they will be able to receive guests this summer in Istria, and whether they will have water for those tourists in the course of summer if we repeat the case from last summer. These changes quickly without a long-term strategy simply do no good to anyone. It is not just us from the Croatian Labour Club, I repeat once again, all the activists warn, all the green ones in Croatia who care very much about such things, the preservation of nature, and it is obvious that we do not need to listen to anyone, that under the cover of large investments, we are making such laws that will certainly come back to us in the long run. The Croatian Labour Club will not accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38384	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. The first one was Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38385	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Tyrelli, I don't think you've done a very good job of reading this law when you mentioned it and referred to my presentation before you. In fact, sand and gravel are also extracted in the process of water streams, necessary procedures, and as you have pointed out when certain activities are being assessed in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The general note of your exposure is, of course, marked by environmental protection and environmental concern. Of course, all the responsible people in this country have this line in place, I think there is also what is called implementation of economic and social policy and the opening of new economic processes and the realisation of new projects without which this country cannot survive, without which there is great unemployment. We have experienced deindustrialisation, and now that we are trying to run some other economic branches to increase employment and now we are clashing with sometimes it seems to me that an overly stressed concern for environmental protection is often, very often, not based on arguments but based on assumptions. What I had when you lied, a text message from an unemployed Sibenik who is only one in a series of those who cry out for help to the mayors and mayors. Therefore, it would be good to base environmental concerns really on arguments, on scientific knowledge, on facts, and put aside in our interpretations of conjecture and hypothesis because the situation is not the least comfortable in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38386	Thank you, too. Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38387	Comrade Baranovic, you said responsible people care about environmental protection. My exposure was precisely to seek the responsibility of these very people who propose such laws, and if we change laws for the purpose of economic and social policy and increase employment, we must at no time forget to keep that environment and that nature from which we live. Because today we're going to hire maybe 10, 20 or 100 people, but what we're doing in the long run. The whole exposure was focused on this particular problem and that particular thinking. I agree that people have a hard time living, I agree that we have a lot of unemployed people, but I also believe that at least nature is guilty because so many people are unemployed in Croatia, that there are certainly some other culprits. And this is all I said, I said from a simple concern, last year at the end of the season you probably didn't have such problems in Sibenik, but the citizens of Croatia didn't have drinking water, we had a 2nd-degree reduction, we had inspections in Istria that controlled how much water certain households spend in order to have enough water for tourists, so that we could enable these citizens who invest themselves in their employment and who are self-employed, who have a huge investment in their houses and their apartments, so that they could earn some kuna and that they could contribute to this very economic and social development. These are the problems I've been talking about, and that's at the end of the law that we have to think about, and by bringing them in like this and in this way it's obvious that we don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38388	Thank you. And next replica Branko Vuksic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38389	Dear colleagues, in your presentation, you spoke of this law favoring large investments and favouring large investors and, in fact, wanting to please them with this law. What you have highlighted, and what I fully agree with you, is that it seems precisely because of the lack of an economic strategy, and then I would also point out the agricultural strategies immediately, although the minister, probably Minister Jakovina, will speak here in his next appearance of how there is a agricultural strategy that we have never heard, but I guess there are some papers that slaughter here because it's probably done like '43. The three of them, the cells, so it wouldn't happen to know what we've got. First, investment by public companies was preferred, and then it was preferable to shrug buildings, and then we were the only ones who were engrossed in deception. And after that, we said we're not going to prefer investment by public companies anymore, now we're going to prefer private investment. However, to this day we have not learned, although all the time it is said that there are some big investments, new projects, employment. He doesn't have any projects. We heard about it the other day. In the last quarter of 2012, we didn't have a single investment. No one has invested a kuna in Croatia. Employment. What kind of employment when every day more and more people end up at the employment bureau? The unemployed are getting more and more, so you're right this law is unclear and I don't think the Labourists are right to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38390	Thank you. We have an answer, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38391	My colleague Vuksic, when I talked about strategies, among other strategies we have a Agricultural Strategy, we have a Economic Strategy. We have strategies, we have spatial plans. But exactly what I said is what scares me, if we give one subject too much authority, in this case Croatian waters can decide on some things then those strategies lose meaning because citizens who watch the strategies of their municipalities, the development of their municipalities, cities and counties are planning something and we are having problems because we are waiting all the time for big investments and big investors, and we allow all this time to ignore our own citizens who are trying very hard to make some kind of investment. Now, the problem is that we and we call them small citizens' investments aren't as important as we care about one big investment from a foreign investor. And that's our basic problem. Because 90,000 craftsmen have investments. Citizens who deal with something have investments and these investments happen daily. We put such laws in an unequal position and call it such small entities compared to large ones. With each law, we justify amendments to the law by facilitating paperwork, i.e. reducing administration in terms of large investors and investments. I keep asking myself what is wrong with citizens and craftsmen and those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have some investment every day, and the state simply doesn't seem to care about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38392	Thank you. Now we'll take a break by 15.00 hours and continue with colleague Ivan Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Club at 15.00 hours. Thank you. Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38393	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] So we'll continue with the individual, or we'll still have clubs, a debate united. Therefore, the final proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Act and the final proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act. In the name of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38394	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Well, first of all, it's sad that we're discussing such an important law in front of so few MPs. And another thing, no matter what it's about P.Z.E. The law, therefore, requires the law in which Croatian legislation is in line with the legal gains of the EU, I think, Mr. Minister, that this law should have been followed in two readings. Not because something revolutionary would change, but simply because perhaps this law should correct everything that has been done for all these past 40, 50 years in Croatia has not been done. For the simple reason that when we talk about some projects, then there are some projects that have been brilliantly solved, however, war and some other things have simply neutralized the huge financial resources invested. But that's when we get there. So, what I should say on behalf of the HDZ Club is that we do not want to go through this debate today, without mentioning the problem of flooded areas in the past 20 days in Zagreb County, in Sisak-Moslavina County, in Varazdinska and in Međimurska, with the fact that Mr. Ministers understands at all there is no attempt to impose any blame on you at all but simply that is why I have suggested that we discuss it in two readings, perhaps this is why, in some proposals in this law with certain amendments to the protection of these flood waters, we could solve some problems and practically solve the trauma of a large number of inhabitants along the Sava River and, in particular, that part of Sisak-Moslavina County. So it's about Sisak Posavina and, of course, the inhabitants of Cica Poljana who, regardless of what side of the rain fell when the amount of water came above some level, are unfortunately always flooded. We have one negative experience of the shooting of the Sava dikes from 2010, today three years after that, in fact 2.5 years after that, there was a completely different water wave that came from the opposite direction. However, there is one real danger that is for the whole area and for the whole area of Sisak-Moslavina County as we can paint it on the Varazdin County, is the problem that the Sava-Odra-Sava channel is not finished and no matter where you water let it out of Sava into that canal or let that if there is a large water supply of rivers that come to Cup and came from the Sisak area simply Lonjsko polje cannot swallow a single amount of water and ultimately those villages around Sisak and Čička Poljana are so to say some kind of appendix where that water comes and there is no place to go. And it is simply in this law that you must see how and how to solve these traumas. Look, a lot of the channels that existed in these fields have just disappeared because of construction and road infrastructure. These canals used to swallow that water, and they know exactly what is happening in certain areas. So that's something that needs to be found in this law. I am not saying that there will be funds, that it will be settled in a year but simply with some procedures and works, look when you look at how much money from Croatian waters is spent on the maintenance of these channels. That's over a billion kuna. My people, it's the fabulous money of any economic branch, put a billion kunas in environmental protection, put a billion kunas in it, it's the fabulous money. What, though, is happening to us? Unfortunately, in the last 7, 8 years, any more rain, the melting of snow is a part of Croatia swimming for us. So someone has to start systematically dealing with it, and we simply need to be aware that several hundred million kunas need to be set aside to protect those areas. But unfortunately, I didn't see it in this law. And when I talk about this part of the melioration, just take an example of the Black Pole here according to Ivanić-City. There's hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars invested here, after the war, actually during the Homeland War, it's just abandoned, and all that money's gone, there's no melliorative channels. What will happen to the meliorating channels in the future, what will happen to irrigation, what about this irrigation project that was stopped in Virovitica-Podravska County? So it's a series of questions that I unfortunately did not see in this law nor could I find an answer. Water-protective areas, look it's nice to talk about water-protective areas, it's nice to talk about water-protection, but does anyone ask themselves how these people live in these water-protective areas that they have houses there? Not the ones who have built houses in the last few years, but the ones who built houses 50 or 60 years ago when the spatial documentation that area wasn't supposed to be there at all would be a water-protective area? They can practically build nothing, their children can't build a house but have to solve their housing issues elsewhere, they can't deal with almost any economic activity, they can't deal with intensive agriculture because they're in a narrow water-protection area because they can't use pesticides. Is the unit of local self-government capable, whether it has financial resources, to create an impermeable sewerage or wastewater drain, and in such a way that it enables these people to live in these areas as normal as all citizens, and also to allow certain activities where there is no possibility of any liquid or chemical spilling into the ground and pollution of groundwater. So I can give you an example, it's a water-protective area of Crnikovec-Kosnica, there for decades and unfortunately there you have a lot of illegal construction. And that's one problem that neither the City of Velika Gorica nor anyone can solve, and why I took it, I took it as one example that is there and many know about, and we can paint it on any part of Croatia, there's no money to invest 400, 500 million in sewers, and without the construction of sewers, you can't solve the problem, so I can tell you over a thousand housing objects that simply failed there, and I'm not saying that these people can't deal with any economic activity. However, when you ride there you have a bunch of plastics, people there grow vegetables, flowers, etc. Although looking at the rules they shouldn't be dealing with it. It is therefore about this process when we talk about municipal infrastructure and when we talk about who will own municipal infrastructure, whether there will be Croatian water, whether there will be local self-government units or there will be public enterprises, a city that deals with water supply and draining, and the basis of this is some revenue. And I am glad that article 15 I think the amendment of this law was made that municipal infrastructure could not be the subject of bankruptcy mass, because I personally went through the goal of having a complete water supply and disposal network, and a purgatory and a drawout site from which was supplied, and the City of Zagreb is extracted from the bankruptcy. However, this law does not make it clear enough. Because you say in the law yes, I think that's Article 200. The Water Act, and Article 100, is this amendment law, so that no enforcement can be carried out. No, there needs to be clearly written that it can't be the subject of bankruptcy mass. That in no way can anyone who asks that company be charged something from, in any way, with that infrastructure. For look, the rights are geniuses, they, I tell you from experience, they'll make you sick and find that it's an object of something, and you'll have a communal enterprise going to hell, communal infrastructure as well. So this law should clarify and make it clearer. Now, what's a particularly cheerful story in Croatia, which is the exploitation of gravel. I'm not really smart enough and I'm not educated enough, but I'm going to say this as some kind of observer on the side of the decades that move from Ivanja River towards Martinska Vesa took the gravel out of Sava, which is there, swimming in certain places, for decades that gravel has been standing on the banks of Sava to be washed out of that coal that came from Slovenia, from those coal mines, and for decades that gravel has been used to build up a flood in the City of Zagreb. But very interesting when the construction of the Zagreb-Sisak highway began then suddenly someone from the Croatian waters said that the gravel could not be extracted outside and that it could not be served, so that the road had to be driven by gravel from distant quarrys, hundreds of kilometers and more. So I really want to know if someone's finally going to end it, because look if we don't take that Slavonic piece out of the Bosnian part of the Sava, and then sell it in Croatia, and we're smart in Croatia, so because of some alleged eco-protection, we don't take out that gravel, but the one on the right, now you can think that we've set the border in the middle of Sava and these over there on the Bosnian side, you get to the middle, and you can't take it out on our side. However, they kept pulling and selling the gravel. I think it's something that should be done, even though it's every honor to improve in this law, but I think it should be done even better and better. And now I'm going to move on to this economic part, many times and as far as the water protection area and this and that, many economic operators have had a number of problems getting a building permit to carry out some activity. I think the key problem, when it comes to water economy consent, is also one of those parts where we talk about removing administrative barriers and administrative barriers. Because look if one unit of local self-government brings up its own spatial plan, if the project documentation and everything is in line with that spatial plan, then I don't see what else a series of such or such consents, if that plan is already spatially done in accordance with that spatial plan, everyone has an opinion. Therefore, both Croatian waters, both this and that, all of them were given consideration and opinion, could make their observations, did not comment, but when a certain economic operator appears to be doing something, then there are a series of problems that must be addressed and which must be brought into line with this or those regulations. And in the end, regardless of whether someone liked it or didn't like it, but it's the same particular brake for investors in the Republic of Croatia, can anyone just remember from this or for that reason to stop this building. Irrigation, therefore, in Croatia no matter what political option we belong to, must finally be made clear whether the Sava-Dunav or Sava-Drava channel is whatever you want something that is Croatian reality and what Croatia and Slavonia need or what is the subject of political bickering? Because talking about agriculture, maybe last year was the best, the best indicator of where your agriculture depends on whether dear God will give more or less rain, we can't talk about agriculture as an economic branch, but if we create a prerequisite that this agriculture has what it needs, and that's mostly water and protection from fighting, and that's some other stuff, then we can talk about agriculture as an economic branch. As long as we don't set ourselves up like that, and unfortunately, in this law, I haven't seen it explicitly, although I think that first of all, this law has to be settled because I think that Croatia throws too much water into empty space, which would be said, and at the same time too many agricultural products that we can't grow because we don't have enough water in Slavonia. We import and pay foreigners far more expensive than this would be at home and far more unquality. I'm saying this is a broad topic that is being discussed a lot and maybe when it comes to this agenda point, then maybe in every club 4, 5 people who specialize in a particular profession, discuss this law and implement this law in a particular area because look, everyone is going to be dragged to their side. Economists will pull this economic piece, those who are engaged in environmental protection will draw to their side. Those who deal with agriculture will be dragged to their side. So that was why on behalf of the club I said that I thought maybe the law was supposed to go in two readings. This pre-election madness will pass as far as local elections are concerned. There will be parliamentary representatives more than six months in this House, there will be more people who are different specialities, perhaps in individual discussions they will offer some concrete ideas, and why am I speaking concrete ideas? Because no matter what environment I came from, I cited a few practical examples. There are some examples that are unfortunately bad and there are some that are good and perhaps in our discussions, Mr. Minister, we could help you to make the law better because it's worth passing a law that you can't apply on the ground or practically difficult to apply. So we will support this bill because it solves things well. Another thing in the end, and I'm relying on what we have proposed in harmonising legislation with legislation, but I repeat, it might be good for you to think about it in a second reading. I think we'd all get another better and better version of the law together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38395	Thank you very much. There are four replicas for your presentation. The first one is the respected representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38396	Thank you very much. Well, you mentioned that money should be found, that is to say, that this proposal does not show where the money came from to edit the canals and that you mentioned the example of these floods that were now happening in Sisak-Moslavina County. I absolutely support that part, but I have to complete it, that it should be dealt with as part of it, because the fact is that all those settlements that are from the Sava Riverbed were now terrified. They were all on the duvets because the dikes hadn't been maintained for years, and they were all eaten from below. During the water, she ate them from below. No one has maintained that for years. No more of those people who've been walking around, those oscillators who've been walking on the hill, the cuffs have made holes in it, it's just a horror. Too long the dikes this year have been underwater, well soaked, and there's a real danger of shooting being very real. In addition, when you mentioned the exploitation of gravel from the Sava River, it should be noted that this gravel exploitation is not on the other side. On the other hand, there's a facility that takes the gravel out of our side. Yeah, and that's what we're just pretending not to see and the damage is enormous. And another brief example. There is not long one delegation from this House was in Iran related to irrigation and then there is one data that I cannot claim to be correct but reportedly over 90% of Iran's agricultural land is irrigated. Now it's a statistical data that can be very misleading. If you have very little agricultural land, then it's not a problem to irrigate, so come to a 90% percentage, but given how much land there is, I doubt it's a small area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38397	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38398	Thank you very much. A colleague Novak, so probably that those channels that have always been in the fields all functioned, probably this impact of water would be smaller because when you look at what happened, this in the huge area, so Chička and Poljani and what happened to Sisak-Moslavina area, it closed down for the simple reason that it was a closed system. In one law of joint business, it was the last container from which the water had no place to leak. Because all the waterways that were coming were higher, the Lonjsko polje had missed, and then the water started in an unnatural cycle, which simply suggests that both the dikes and the capacities that should swallow up the water of Sava and all the tributaries after Sisak, simply has to work on them and as far as irrigation is concerned, so there is one project of the World Bank, which started working on it, and I think that Davor invested over $100 million in the project, and that's the project that the World Bank wants to monitor. However, I say the question is who and when will have the courage to start with this big project but I say many things have been done and that's why I said I simply don't want to talk about the phases of certain governments because it's a cycle of work and not work for the past 40 years. There are things that are wonderfully done and there are things that are unfortunately closed with the construction of new infrastructure and what I haven't been able to say in my debate and you mentioned it in a certain way in the exploitation of gravel on land, so to speak, there are huge water surfaces being created and you look at the Law and none of these surfaces are solved. What's the status of those surfaces? There are no lakes because the lakes are practically right, who is responsible for protecting it because you look at the example of Lake Chiche where you dig to the depths of 50 meters and soon if you do not create a canal that the water will come out of it and go somewhere further you will get a cove of swamp where there will simply be nothing, plant and fish life, practically nothing at all because your depth along the coast is more than 20 or 30 meters. So that's something this law has to solve. Why? Because we simply have such pebbles in the northern part of Croatia as much as we want and someone simply has to take care of it otherwise we will create an eco problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38399	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Schucker, you said that local self-government units were able to make dams for impermeable water? The legal proposal establishes the entities of their obligation to review self-control inspection systems... water and so on, the question of whose costs will be examined if there is an obligation of county and cities. On the one hand, the government has taken a number of responsibilities to local self-government units, not to be decentralised, although it was actually talking about the election campaign, but centralisation, taking away certain revenues from local self-government units while imposing financial obligations on them on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38401	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38402	That fellow Babic, certain legal changes take some power to the units of local self-government, and I can say that this is due to the fact that many local self-government units have been unable to finance their projects in recent years. There are many projects that have been funded together by Croatian Waters and Local Self-Government Units and since local self-government units could not finance it practically co-owners of this infrastructure project are Croatian Waters and Local Self-Government Units. I think three years ago the Law on Croatian Waters was amended precisely because Croatia's water with a billion and 100 million kunas could finance certain infrastructure projects by... And when you look at what effect it is then you will see that it is a huge effect primarily in water supply, and this best shows that Croatia leads with its revenues of more than 2 billion kunas to take care of building certain infrastructures as regards supply and disposal in certain units of local self-government that are poorer, and also those units of local self-government that have water protection areas in their area must also get money from Croatian waters because they themselves will not be able to solve the problem. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38403	The next is a replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you were talking about how the Capinci irrigation project was stopped... in Virovitica-Podravska County and with full right we can claim that for a year and a half of the project was nothing. Now in pre-election time, the work is being restarted with some new opportunities that speak of the county no longer participating in the pilot project which was the only one in Croatia where the county of Virovitski podravska participated. Now she's no longer participating except with 1%. The question is, how long will this project last and when will it be completed? Instead of being finished now, he is only now re-starting his work because as soon as the coalition government came, he stopped. As for the exploitation of mineral raw materials of gravel and sand, in recent years Croatia lost several billion kunas by importing gravel, sand, stone and clay from neighbouring countries. The guilt of strictly Croatian waters and former ministers who by law have banned exploitation from our rivers, calling for European plantings of environmental protection. In the rivers, they restored materials that bring the river's erosion and are used from Republika Srpska from Serbia, Hungary and BiH as well as thousands and millions of cc's of gravel and sand in our highways. Let's say corridor C5 is all imported. These are beams of border crossings and customs declarations for imports of gravel and sand. And for this reason, I welcome these amendments and the additions of the laws in the sense that they are listed to allow the exploitation of mineral raw materials because these shipowners and these seines have failed, their houses have been seized, ships have run out of anything because they could not do their job that was in the interest of the state of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38405	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38406	When I spoke on behalf of the club, I said that this was not a problem of 5, 6 10 years old, but it was an old proud time also would be a problem in the future of many tens of years if it was constantly not working and it best shows that certain projects regarding both water supply and disposal and irrigation must not be interrupted by the arrival of one authority just because someone did it before because there are probably some studies. Well, at the end of the day, neither in the ministries nor in the water or in some other public enterprises are all people changing, and apparently these same people were doing this project, and probably this project in the Virovitica-Podrava County would have been over long ago if it hadn't stopped, but I'm saying nothing with anyone is starting and nothing's ending, they have projects that mean life and that's how they should be treated, and that's how they should be led. And as for the floods and pebbles, look, everyone has a chance to see that island in Sava in Ivanjo River, and for years that island was being cleaned up and for years somewhere in the spring that island was growing again, means that this gravel is coming from somewhere and that someone is bringing it in and regardless of why you took it out or didn't take it out, it's only going to be bigger. And it's practically complete that part almost to the Marine Vesa to Sisak. It used to be said that it clears the bottom due to the sailing of Sava, but it definitely raises the question when the rise and water supply of the Sava River or any other river, if these floods are not cleaned, then it is obvious that the trough there is far shallow and the water is then doing what it is doing. I say, there will be different opinions, but I say if it existed for 50 years, Savi and flora and fauna along the Sava and Sava, nothing happened, I don't understand how suddenly there was an eco-awareness when the Zagreb-Sisak highway started.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38407	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that esteemed representative of Mirale Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38408	So I'm going to look back on this part of your pessimism debate because I want to stress once and for all that it's not true that the water law is forbidden to gravel in the Republic of Croatia. It's simply incorrect. Allowed from alluvial applications, it is allowed even with water streams if it serves to maintain rivers and the like. So it's not exactly true that gravel is not allowed. What is the positive side of this law is that your government at the last session of the Parliament in the last term of office, which was completely past the law in the autumn of 2011, without having conducted a public debate, without a debate on the parent committee, passed a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act where a very, very unusual provision was allowed in this law where the water law inspector could have caused nothing, at his will to decide in which situations the exploitation of gravel from the water streams was allowed, and that was something that was absolutely unacceptable. And I would like to point out that the first thing that welcomed me when I came to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature was a very difficult warning from DG Environment from Europe where they were actually seeking to suspend this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act that was contrary to the Water Framework Directive and that is why it is good to pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38409	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38410	Look, fellow Holly, I said that in this law we should discuss 4-5 experts in certain areas because of the various professions. So I know exactly and I can tell you from personal experience as a member of the government who was not clear to get down, and you know it as well as I do because we're from this area, that there at Ivanje River were always hills of gravel. And I'm not going to get into whether or not this law allowed or not, but if it's been done there for decades now it's not done all of a sudden, and someone's starting to sell me jokes isn't working because of this. I just can't accept it. So let someone who's out of that profession say why it's like that or not. And I agree with you that it's not right to give a small reference there that makes decisions that someone can turn tens of millions and I just don't think it's good for a million reasons. But when we talk about the European Union, you know what, I'm not once, so in one conversation I said before this economic crisis that you control other countries like you control Croatia probably financial crises wouldn't happen what happens. Because if they had controlled Greece and these other countries, they wouldn't have had a deficit like they controlled Croatia, they wouldn't have as many deficits as they have, so much as this gravel and everything together. Why can Hungarians extract gravel from Drava, and the problem is to extract gravel from Croatia? So we're dealing with some standards that just aren't like that. And the other thing, we need to be aware that Sava is one of its large parts going along with BiH that has no such standards as it has. Now we want to be so crazy that we accept that someone's taking the gravel out of that Sava, selling it to us, and we're going to spend some kind of eco measures, and he's nice... the gravel on our side. And then how we carry out ecological measures, not at all, and we can't protect them in any way. So I'm saying that the letter on paper is one thing, and real life is another, and that's why it just takes a lot of MPs who have experience to make a law that's going to be enforceable and that's how much it's going to be possible to reconcile everything that's interested. I think it's in everyone's interest because maybe we're not even aware of how much wealth we have in the water, and because of that wealth, we just have to behave differently. And I don't think there must be any political option here, it's just a fight for the future of our children and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38411	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates. The first one is those respected MPs, Mirale Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38412	Thank you, Vice President. So here, as I have already said in the replica, I will support this law because, as I said earlier, it was absolutely inadmissible to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act and it warned us at the end of the law and the European Union, it was not in line with the Water Framework Directive which we can finally read in the opening part of the law. Unfortunately, the situation in the water sector in the Republic of Croatia is far from ideal. Croatia is a country rich in water resources, some estimates say that in this sense we are fifth somewhere in Europe if I am not mistaken and definitely water is a strategic resource and will increasingly be an important resource in times when we will live and because of climate change, due to extreme droughts on the one hand, because of extreme floods, and all of this is actually covered in some way by this bill. What about the law? Well, no law we discuss in this House is perfect. Every law has its own good side, every law has its own bad side. My biggest observation to this law is his pretty big incomprehensibility because he calls and it's hard to actually follow, you have to constantly go to the previous version of the law to check. And since a very large part of the law is changing, i.e. 155 articles we have in this law, since I am not wrong 299 which is more than 50% of the law, it is my view that we should still go with the new law on water and that such a law would be far more passing, more understandable and easier to find users, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we always have to think that our first interest is precisely to worry about the interests of our citizens. Another thing I would like to note about this law is that two articles in this law are actually not quite understandable, and I would like Prime Minister Jakovina to explain a few things to us in his final address. This applies to Article 5, which applies to Article 8, paragraph 4, a new paragraph 5 is added, which reads as follows: No rules on spatial regulation which are contrary to the provisions of this Act apply to the real estate of the public water supply. What's this all about? I don't think it's a good idea for us to pass laws that suspend the provisions of some other laws, and that's why I'd like to be explained what the background of this article is. And another article that surprised me so little was Article 50, which refers to Article 97, and now in one part, in the final part of that article 50, we have part of a new paragraph, that is a new item that is added where it is said: Pebble, Sand, Stone and Earth, including clay, can be used from the area of importance for the water regime for the construction of the buildings referred to in Articles 26 and 2 of this Law, without taking acts according to the rules in mining according to water law. I think we need to be very careful here so there's no abuse. And here I will relate to what I am a little concerned about in this bill, which is that very, very large powers are given to Croatian waters. I can fully understand the necessity of simplifying procedures and I, contrary to perhaps environmental associations, believe that simplifying procedures does not facilitate malversion, but rather the opposite. Because if we have laws that are simple and ultimately enforceable, then we have a significantly less possibility of what we call civil corruption. Because unfortunately, we very often have very complicated laws that are very difficult to implement and which give very great discretion to officials about deciding which solutions will be positive, which solutions will not be positive and in this way you can actually put two equal investors or two equal parties in the process which is not generally good for the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. And so, I welcome the simplification of the procedure. But we must remember, however, that Croatian waters are one institution that is burdened with various problems, that things do not happen in Croatian waters, unfortunately, always the way we should and should be very careful in burdening Croatian waters with some new tasks in this respect unless we have instruments of control that will be very well monitored in how these things are carried out. And I'd still like to mention some of the important aspects in my opinion. In Croatia, we have about a little more than 40% of the population connected to some sewer network, which is a very low percentage. We have a lot of work to do here in this part, and of these slightly more than 40% if data have not changed in the meantime 44% have some form of treatment of waste or sewers, which is very bad because our contaminated waters are being poured into natural water streams or into the sea, because our resources are extremely valuable, and in this area we are very lagging behind other EU countries. And when we bear in mind the fact that we want to continue to develop as a tourist country, we need to get very serious and start to solve these very big infrastructure problems. Croatian waters as an implementing agency for EU water infrastructure projects will have a very large job there, a lot of tasks to be done. And I hope that the projects that will go to funding from the Structural Funds will be well prepared and that we will have a great use of these funds in the next period. When we talk about water supply, we have very big problems. Unfortunately, 40% of all local self-government units are lost from the water network. This is not only the result of the duration of the infrastructure, but it is very often that we do happen and steal water, and we should work on good control of such a situation so that we do not have certain problems. There he is, I'd like so much. Well, maybe I'll think of something else later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38413	Thank you very much. A respected representative, Josip Djakic, appeared in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Holly, you've alluded to article 97 that you don't understand. It is in that Article 97, paragraph 1, that the provision prohibiting the exploitation of gravel and sand on our rivers is deleted. And that's what you're worried about. I know that's what you're worried about since you're very aware of environmental protection. However, environmental protection that goes to the harm of the Croatian state and for your mandate and for the mandate of previous governments and ministers is equally harmful to the Republic of Croatia, has allowed the import of these mineral raw materials from neighbouring republics, as have the Croatian Waters, the Ministry of Agriculture as well as you from the Ministry of Environmental Protection or your ancestors, have given consent to Austrian companies in Hungary, Serbian companies in Serbia, Republika Srpska to exploit mineral raw materials from Drava, Danube, Sava, Une and such raw materials exploited in the Republic of Croatia by creating huge damage to our economy, that our natural wealth is imported from neighbouring countries and, with our consent, we allow them to exploit them. That's the whole point of the problem, and it's doubtful that someone was comfortable with who founded these companies in these neighbouring countries and thus respected gravel and sand as a whole by my estimates of 5 billion kunas lately. Not to be harsh and too loud, I would like to stress that this law clearly defines that the exploitation of gravel and sand can be done by extracting from renewable beds in waterways and others. And we are also like the Croatian State and the signatories of the Paradise Convention on the Floating of Roads, you know how many times the Croatian State has committed and paid compensation for the overrunged ship on the Neretva Delta. Delta Neretva chokes Neretva and floods surrounding areas. Equally so flow in Sava, Drava, in all our rivers that are clouded with these very mineral raw materials that can be of economic importance and economic importance to the Republic of Croatia, you are the Nature Protection Act, and now I think it will still be quite difficult, since there are now certain clauses that certain legal provisions of the Nature Protection Act must be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38415	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38416	Well, I have to admit that I'm surprised at the way in which very big concerns about the economic interests of certain companies dealing with the exploitation of gravel from Croatian alluvial applications or water streams or the like, as you will. I mean, I think we're pretty stupid as a society because if we're looking at total cake waste, so in terms of municipal waste, some 5%, more than 50% of the waste on forest and agricultural waste, we have some 15% of the construction waste. This construction waste is a very valuable raw material because it can be processed, it can be crushed and it produces gravel and produces sand from it, you understand? Unfortunately, in most cases, this construction waste ends in nature and creates very big problems because other types of waste, large and communal and similar problems are then being brought to these locations. But no, we're not thinking that maybe in our utility companies we should secure the possibility of free disposal of such waste and process that waste and sell it, but all the time we're beating about how we don't have enough gravel, we don't have enough sand and stuff, and here we're throwing away a fortune just like that. And I would just like to mention when we talk about European countries that we European countries are very clear that we in Croatia have managed to preserve our water streams, and today many countries like Germany would love to have not channeled their rivers so much because they have very big flood problems precisely because of this. So I think we can be happy that we have the opportunity to respect the Framework European Water Directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38417	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was attended by a respected representative, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38418	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, Mr. Minister remembers, because he lives in an area from which I, Mr. or other Dragonic, the deceased who was the director of the Sava Water Community 30, 40 years ago and who built miles and miles of embankment and meliorative channels in that part of the Posavina, and beyond, according to the County and towards Sisak and Baranja. These were procedures that would be quite certain today if they were summed up in kunas, not those of Yugoslav dinars, via what we call strategic investments, more than 150 million kunas or 20 million euros. That's what I'd say billions of kuna. Today we have also experienced that, besides saying such giants as he was a gentleman or then Comrade Dragonic, it doesn't matter, we have floods each other, third year we have floods in the plums and small ones to say big rivers. I clearly count Sava here on the large rivers, and in the Varazdin area and in Zagorje of Bednja and other smaller rivers or rivers and streams we also have great floods. What happened and why in the Croatian state where we invested so much in Croatian water and to say water economy to billions of kunas? Here, there's been a reference here to the cleaning of the canals that have really been invested in lately billions of kunas, and yet they can't or can't make it to the tide of that kind of water because of a weather accident. It is hard to say that all of these laws that have been passed so far, in the last 2011, when it was just considered after the 2010 flood that we have been able to organise and legally regulate that, however, it has not been implemented. And two years since that last law was passed in 2011. The gravel, sand, stone, mineral raw materials that were exploited in our rivers and then the forbidden area in our county of Brod-Posavina, and also in the other according to County and therefore Vukovar-Srijem and this upstream Jasenovac and Sisak-Moslavina County led to this, so that ban as much as it was ecologically justified for various reasons led to the wateriness of the Sava River today, I am not saying that the only fault is not digging or exploiting gravel, sand or stone, but it is certainly one of the elements that today is due to the lack of the corridor or wateriness of the Sava River that wateriness to Sisak is impossible. He tried to get a German passenger ship to Slavonski Brod to see the fortress of the Ship. Indeed, a monumental monument to the 17th century fortress of the Ship is preserved excellently, etc., but it was stuck at the Županje, could not go beyond the Županje because of the relatively large Sava river gauze, which is only watered from Belgrade to Župa. If the Danube-Sava or Sava-Dunav channel, however you like, which is currently in the grip of this policy and this government a little bit, and in fact before, it wasn't much better, and then just as an idea it was, it was going to run from the election to the Danube-Sava channel, so we'll figure out the waterway from Vukovar to Shamac, and we'll figure out the irrigation of hundreds of thousands of acres of Slavonic fertile plains, etc. But obviously it's someone's mirage, so it's still like a mirage because we don't see the light in that tunnel, or in that channel, we don't see the end or the water in that channel. So, all of these are problems, I'm talking about Croatian waters in total, even though, according to my colleague Holly, Croatia knew well that it was as if we were to say the fifth power in Europe by its reserves, to say the drinking water and the water goods they own. We know there are huge reserves of drinking water underground, but what does this law bring and what does it suggest? It says here that this law does not require additional funding in the Republic of Croatia's budget, entirely correct, but if it requires additional funding in the budget of Croatian Waters, it does not write and requires, it requires. Furthermore, the announced establishment of Holding, I'm afraid, I'm afraid, cannot argue exactly, is actually one of these introductions to the possibility, says investment but also privatisation of parts of Croatian waters. The Strategic Investments Act mentions, therefore, the explicit writings and investments in the water economy, and in the forest economy it says not to forget these, but now we're talking about the water economy. What does strategic investment mean, private in the water economy? I wouldn't even want to assume what's going to happen or what's going to happen, but there's a big but. So, what it really is, Croatia has one resource, a wealth that is referred to by both the World Bank and all possible studies as a wealth of the world, which is water, forests, food, energy, but this time water. I'm afraid it doesn't come out of the hands of the Croatian state, and clearly the Croatian people, too, to go into private or foreign hands. Will this law prevent or open or expose the door to that goal? Therefore, although we speak for ourselves but also the HDSSB club will be very careful when voting this law and at the very least we will be abstentioned if not against such a law. Furthermore, when it comes to legal proposals, i.e. in the article, I would also ask the minister to explain to us, when it comes to declaring the elemental flood disaster, then the leaders of units of local, but also regional self-government, and I would like to know if there will be, to say one, a conflict in declaring a natural disaster in some area, in some municipality, county, city, etc. 'Cause it says both. And who's gonna be in charge, so that's what he's gonna judge? It is therefore an objection to Article 64. Furthermore, when it comes to wastewater disposal, that is to say, when agglomeration involves several units of local self-government and when it comes to a programme of disposal for several units of local self-government, it is not defined who will be the bearer of that programme, which of these units, will either one or each work one programme at a time? So, it's undefined, it's legally not regulated, I'm not saying it's not good but it's not finished defined. And here's what I have to say is that actually in some of the provisions of the old law there are articles that shouldn't have been changed, which may even be better solutions than in this one. And we constantly for a year, two days we have new and new Water Laws, and now the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act, etc. In the end, I have to say that the exploitation of this gravel, sand, stone, mineral raw materials has really reached...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38419	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38420	...here, dramatic proportions mainly when we know that when we rebuild the area of special state concern, just as counterpart Djakić said the material imported from those parts was used, not to say the republics that caused the damage, the war damage caused by the action from these areas in our areas of special state concern. And of those we imported gravel, sand and stone. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38421	Thank you very much. Let's move on, replicas. First, she's the esteemed representative of Mirale Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38422	In your debate, you mentioned the Danube-Sava channel but I would mention that it is very common not to think about the Danube-Sava channel having as a three-stage project and that one aspect of that channel is the meliorization, the other is the flood defense and the third is sailing. I absolutely agree with the implementation of this project because we need to have a melioration in this agricultural area. We also need to think about how we will defend ourselves against floods but with certain aspects related to the wateriness of this channel I have quite large remarks and, above all, because of the very harmful impact that the realization of this project would have on the Spachvan forest. This is where it was mentioned from Sava-Odra's cargo channel. But I think we should look at projects like this in an integrated way. We must view Sava-Odra’s cargo channels as part of the Zagreb project at Sava and the necessity of realising small hydropower plants on Sava, which requires very good and quality co-operation between Croatian Waters and HEP in order to have such large projects realised in the best possible way for the state because we do not care about the realisation of large projects in which we will break down a lot of money and ultimately we will not benefit from it for society, for public interest, for some vital functions of society but we will have damage. Investments in themselves must not be our goal, but should be a method to which we will come up with some crucial goals that we stand for as a society and must primarily be related to the interests of all our citizens and citizens, especially those who live in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38423	Thank you very much. The respected representative Boro Grubisic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38424	Thank you very much, colleague Holly, for supporting this by saying yourself that the Danube-Sava channel is supported by how he might have forgotten to say more dedicated channel. Exactly what you said these three elements, so irrigation, meliorization, airworthiness. Now, you've expressed your skepticism in the sense that this will disrupt the growth of Slavonian forests in Spachva, etc. Although this is very difficult today, and not enough studies have shown it yet. We know that only three percent of Croatia's surface area is irrigated. This is really compared to some countries in the Middle East or the Middle East which is dry, to say sandy a little too, quite, very little from Israel to Iran, as counterpart Novak said? But as far as the Odra-Sava channel is concerned, I haven't talked about it at all only if this channel could be efficient and profitable if it was reorganized in view of the sequence of the Youth Work Action and we could also dig the Danube-Sava channel through youth work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38425	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric. I'm sorry, I just skipped. With the right word there is a respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Boro, you were talking about importing gravel and sand from our neighbouring countries, those who even committed aggression to the Republic of Croatia. I'll just talk about how this material that is actually our material, in our rivers. They draw it and sell it to us at a 100% price more expensive than it would cost than if our construction workers or craftsmen or companies were taking it out and the clean crusts kept the waterways you were also talking about. And through the ten-year archive of Croatian Waters you can clearly see what happened in our rivers. So there are certain stations that measure the height of the water supply and also the flow of water at certain times. So in the flood of water on the Sava, let's say Jankomir or Obor's flow height per second is two to three thousand cc's per second and 50 years was like that. Today, a thousand to a thousand and a half cubic ccs can no longer pass through this same river because the erosion of material is so large that there is no waterway anymore, the em material has grown by a meter and a half. And they say in Croatian waters we need to build dikes. Well, we won't be building waterfalls on the rivers to the sky. Of course, we're gonna clean up the riverbeds, but that's where environmentalists come in and say no, there's special birds on those springs, and when the water rises in the floods, I haven't seen one of them put on their boots and move those nests. Such a huge damage that has been done to the Republic of Croatia in recent times, I believe this law will be corrected. But there are strict culprits for her and in environmental protection, in the past and those who from Europe were subfling what we should not have brought as protection, installed and banned... Your rivers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We started a waterway agency. But she didn't really overwork her employees, and I'm thinking about no pay, let alone cleaning up some of the waterway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38427	Thank you very much. The respected representative Boro Grubisic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38428	Comrade Djakić, you are very picturesque and I agree with that. With an illusion that you're pleading to give someone a job like that to make millions. It shouldn't be exactly accurate. The state has instruments to measure and charge taxes on such things, inspections and everything else. He's got everything. So there's this agency as well as you said so let the state do its job and private or I don't know who but my job. I came from Strasbourg the other day where I was, where there's a construction store next to the hotel. 400 kg of stone diameter of 6-10 cm, therefore a river stone costing 209 euros in Strasbourg, France, 40 kg of such stone brought across from Bosnia in Slavonski Brod on the same size I paid 40 kg of 20 kuna on the Shipping lot. So you see I'm talking about wealth, so in Europe it sells 400 kg for 20 euros, that's 30 kuna per kilo. I bought a far cheaper one in the boat, but it's about the same stone. So it is a great wealth and it is a shame that the Croatian state can't or can't take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38429	Thank you very much. Here is now the word taken by the esteemed representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38430	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. And the fact is that today we are discussing two very important laws, the Water Act and the financing of the water economy, we have heard various opinions. However, I will return to my question of the Minister again because it really is an important issue, this 21 holding guess that it will be at the level of Zagreb County and City, something that is the future in water economy management or disposal systems in some future period. I think we should know something about it today because we have local elections ahead of us, and local leaders should know something about it. Is that how they are dissipated, whether they are discriminated against in the decision-making process, or is it some new model that will leave them with certain powers, which they may now have, and take others for themselves? We don't know you. Is that why it was left out of this form of the Water Act or is it the subject of someone else's. We've heard it's a strategy, maybe it's better if we saw this strategy before this law that we know what we're talking about because if you don't know what you're managing or which you're going to manage, and the municipal infrastructure and public standard concerns are clearly prescribed by the Constitution, and it's the sole authority of the local self-government unit. And you are in Article 58a. Article 32 of the Law clearly struck the independence of local self-government. You said the water service council would make decisions. Why are there municipal and city councils when we talk about development fees? What are they for if it or such decisions that will equalise some level of payment at a level of more local self-government makes the council a political body where there are eight people, instead of local self-government, the issue of the constitutionality of this law is raised, i.e. Are these local self-government days independent to make such decisions or not? I'll give you an example. I come from Rab Island and we have two local self-governments. We introduced development compensation in 2005 because it was a condition that we could get a World Bank loan with which we wanted to solve the disposal systems and that compensation was collected per cubic metre delivered to the final user. She was four kunas. We've entered that program and that system is being built. It was the World Bank's condition that we could run or start thinking about building such a system at all. However, there is another local self-government on the island that has been resolved long ago and these two systems have nothing to do with each other. On the basis of this Article 32th, a municipal company may now report and request the equalisation of compensation for both local self-governments, because in this municipality where I live, there is this compensation of two kunas and you will then leave it to this famous Water Service Council. If it's by the Constitution normal for you, it's not for me. What do we choose in 19.5. these leaders or representatives of municipal and city councils when such a decision will be announced in the official messages of the local self-government unit? It is a disaster for Croatian democracy, and the more we have passed the experience and the administrative court has imposed on the municipal company not to charge the same fee to one and another self-government but to repay all that he has baselessly charged. Did you get up from this article even above the administrative court? Do they now get through this article the possibility that we all equalize ourselves and that every local self-government gets the right to build a missing infrastructure for every other local self-government. When it comes to water supply, they can agree because we are all on one water supply system but on the disposal systems to do such equation is simply not fair. And that's why I insisted that you tell us what you mean by these new holdings because it may be premature for me today, but I assume it's a privatization of water as an important resource for the Republic of Croatia. It is much easier to privatize when 21 is a company that manages it than there are several hundred. And I'd really like to hear if it's like that or if it's something I'm thinking. And I hope that you will correct this Article 58a because no council can be above the independence and decisions of municipal and city councils that are obliged to worry about the standard of municipal service in their own areas and make relevant decisions. I'm glad you've in some way acknowledged the state's weaknesses when it comes to water treatment fees, so you've made it possible for those who have been flooded or recently exempt from the same fee. Because it really might be absurd for these people to pay for water without having their real estate flooded up to two to three times a year, at least let's say some kind of return money or at least not pay for the service you weren't willing to provide them because otherwise I can't interpret it. And that it is these water treatment fees and the most controversial because they are paid throughout the Republic, and many do not have water streams, many do not have resolved systems to take care of this excess water that comes and then when Croatia leads it elegantly to the units of local self-government as a responsibility. Perhaps it was better that instead of abolishing the infrastructure connection fee, you thought about how to charge such a fee. It is known that it is directly charged by Croatian waters and that it is now the cause of thousands and thousands of blockades of Croatian citizens where you are on debt, and I have spoken of it many times, of 2 or 3 thousand kunas of Croatian water, earning another 1,500 kuna of tight interest. These are the truths and facts and this concerns Croatian citizens because they are at the same time flooded and obliged to pay all of this plus increased for certain fees to lawyers and everyone else. How we charge compensation for the protection of water or the use of water in the account of a municipal society, which is why we would not charge that fee on that account. She wouldn't be high, on every account at 12 months, and she'd be chargeable almost 100%. This is how you do it yourself, and you create problems for the citizens. They pay a lot more than their real debt to Croatian waters. That's what we should be thinking about. And I'm saying, I hope you'll explain to us what you meant by this Article 32 and whether you're really behind the Water Services Council being above the municipal or city council's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38431	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38432	Yes, counterpart Boris, it is clear who can undo the city or municipal council or the county assembly's decision. So, no water council, so we can put in a law like this or something, but that's the opposite of the Charter of Local Self-Government. Therefore, no water council or whatever it will be called can undo it. However, I am surprised by such a provision in the law for a simple reason that many units of local self-government with a level of various giving can in principle compete who will attract which investor to themselves. Also, the income potential of local self-government units is different and not all local self-government units are in the same position. Therefore, some units of local self-government can do their infrastructure projects independently of Croatian waters, but some local self-government units simply cannot do so without Croatian waters. And as no one has the right to interfere with what kind of municipal contribution there will be if it is in accordance with the positive laws, as no one has the right to interfere with whether a local self-government unit will introduce or not introduce a concession, but also in the law on the implementation of the budget, we have laid down a provision that the unit of local self-government which has not exploited all tax potentials cannot count on certain aids from the state budget, so no water council can and it is against the law that it annuls the decision of a municipal or city council for the simple reason why the President of the Council and the mayor or mayor cannot allow a decision which is contrary to a certain law. So that decision must be annulled primarily by the mayor because it is his obligation. Therefore, if something has been made in accordance with the positive legal rules, no council can undo it and it is against the law of any such decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38433	The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38434	Thank you very much. Here's my esteemed colleague Shucker, Article 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I'll just read one piece. Local self-government units carry out local district jobs that directly meet the needs of citizens, and in particular those relating to the organisation of settlements and housing, spatial and urban planning, municipal activities. This way they suggest it doesn't apply. The only person responsible to handle this is the water service council. And the other injustice that arises in connection, we can now see it as an example of illegally built objects that could not be legalised without the connection or permission of a municipal society that you join it even though the state has invested millions and local self-government to enable the connection. Now, you don't have to pay for those who are illegal, and those who were legal and all the time are in the legal system they were obliged to pay for the connection as the basis for getting any confirmation on the main project or former building permits. That's why I said it was unfair for me, even though it was a relief to the locals. I can accept that, but if we keep sharing these people with those who were smart so they didn't pay anything, and now we release them nicely, unlike those who have always paid dearly, the question of what laws we make is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38435	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that respected representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, Boris, you mentioned the independence of local self-government units. The Act on the financing of the water economy in Article 17 requires that units of local self-government when charging a municipal fee according to the rules of the municipal economy must also charge the compensation for water control, and 5% of that fee is therefore returned to local self-government units. However, the fact is that many units, i.e. a large number of these units of local self-government, did not apply this Article 17, along with the communal fee, did not also charge for water control, and now these amendments to the Law on the financing of the water holding of the local self-government unit are obliged to make by the 20th day of the month for the previous month, and until the 28th year for the previous year for the delivery to Croatian waters, the report on the billing by way of bonds sent to the bonds on the paid and awarded funds for water control. So we have the situation of a municipality in Labinština that has some 3,000 inhabitants, that the municipal council of 1.1.2011, decided not to charge citizens a municipal fee because of a very difficult economic situation. And how now, by respecting this amendment to the law, that unit of local self-government will carry out those accounts. It means that these citizens will receive two new parafiscal charges, which is a communal contribution and a water fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38437	And the honourable representative Josip Boric will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38438	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrelli, you're right, so I say clearly and showed and proved that in this way we can't pass laws where again the centralized system is in quite possibly a banal maybe or insignificant thing. I don't know what to do with these holding companies or what to do with them, and we're not able to charge legal let's say accusations I don't know why we keep calling them parafiscal or like that because it leaves one impression for ordinary citizens maybe better not to describe them. But if we charge the water protection fee, if we charge for water use, I don't know why we're cleaning water. They must charge Croatian waters on their own. Isn't it simpler in one account to settle all that? We have the local self-government data on the area of real estate on which this fee is charged and the matter solved. It's easier for all of us, but no. Unfortunately, the failure to pay the bill has become a good business and a communal society, so here is a public firm that can earn a debt that no one disputes from 2 or 3000 kunas 1000 or 1500 kuna of tight interest. You can't win that in any bank to invest that money on three or four years of savings, you'll never get that. Unfortunately, this is what happens here, and for this reason we have 250,000 today blocked Croatian citizens, and this is exactly what I'm talking about, and this is a water-restricting force, one large part of the very tasks that are being carried out and over our pensioners who are being taken if there is a third account, if there is no full pension. And all because the public company doesn't want that fee charged by someone else. And what we're going to get into through this bill of law is that some Water Services Council will also be competent either over courts or above the authority of local self-government. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38439	Thank you very much. And now the closing word will be given by the Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I listened very closely to and exhibited on behalf of clubs and individual debates and replicas for one single reason because I consider this one of the really important laws in my portfolio. And at the very beginning, I'm going to mention one more time. This law has been done long, it has been done in quality, it has been done with the largest possible inclusion or participation of all stakeholders in the water economy, in the scientific community, the alliance of cities and municipalities, the county, the local community has been placed on the website for a month, public stands in a series of cities, at all events related to the water economy there has been an additional clarification so that there is no story that it has not been done professionally and that it has not been made by the people most measured to produce this law. I didn't write it. I've given guidance, I've briefed the team and the team a few times, and we've checked especially in the part where we've had extra consultations even sometimes a little bit sharp with the commission about the percentages we've set in the law. But the law was done on purpose in a procedure that gave us a quality legal proposal. By the time I said that I listened very carefully to you, I could actually say that there were great discussions where you colleagues and colleagues and well prepared and you know the matter well. There were some of those like that, let's say the flat-rates, but in some discussions, de facto, there was also an elemental ignorance from the water economy field. Because to say that the water economy in the Republic of Croatia has no strategy, and in 2008 a water management strategy was adopted in this House. By 2038 in two periods, so until 23rd and until 38th it's pretty unserious. Everything we do backwards these years is actually done by that strategy. Everything we've been preparing for, what we're preparing for and on which we're already applying projects to the EU, and I'm going to repeat the 4 and a half billion euros available to us by 23. We are also working in accordance with this strategy and adapting our EU legislation. Yes, the Water Framework Directive is the basic regulation under which we have complied with this law. But in some ways, in lawmaking, we took advantage of the opportunity to make as much quality as possible and as much better law as possible in practice. To talk about big or small, that this law goes hand in hand big I think it would be very difficult to explain for example to the Association of Small Pebblers who for the last three, four years have not been allowed to do their basic work and the good part of them has failed. I'm talking about the 2005 laws and the 2009 law. I'm sorry, and that's what you fellow Shuker have noticed that there may have been no more determination or that your colleagues in the government have stopped listening. These amendments and additions to the law could also be made in 2011 in this way and allow that economic branch to do what we saw we did wrong, and we did bad things if we banned the exploitation of gravel and sand from our streams and we were not able to use it for infrastructure projects done by this country and did ourselves and our economy great damage, and we are talking about over 500 million kuna imported material from neighbouring countries we could have done before. The Commission was neither clear nor on the first proposal we sent. She kindly said this law could pass in this sense. We had a series of technical meetings and the harmonisation of the law itself until we were able to explain and determine that this law would pass in this form. We have referred to examples of why something can apply to Hungarians, Slovenians or Austrians, for us it cannot. Why do our businessmen have to go to open companies in neighbouring countries, extract this same material and then de facto re-import it to the Republic of Croatia or we bought it from some third parties. But I am speaking once again of the 2005 and 2009 laws, and these examples of the Zagreb-Sisak highway itself have been disabled, so that they can be built from our material. Corridor VC – mass of roads that were made could be handled with our material. Unfortunately, we didn't take advantage of that. This law will once again enable all those working on these activities to deal with these activities under strictly controlled conditions prescribed by this law. That the material being extracted, the mineral raw material being extracted, is primarily used for all those projects that we need and which we plan to work as a state, and that the surplus is then placed on the free market. Not only was I listening, I was writing along the way, and I'm going to try to give a quick list of answers. Lonjsko polje, Lonjsko polje is a natural retention. 2 billion cubic meters, and now that we've had huge water, it's proven that this natural reserve can receive and that it can save in some way and cause less damage than it did. But be careful if in water-protective areas, illegal buildings are built in water-side areas, then most of these objects are unfortunately not helpful because they are in areas that are indefensible. But once again, I thank all my colleagues who worked on flood defenses and the past weeks when we had a really critical situation on Savi, but also last year, last fall when we had millennium water on the Drava because they gave the maximum of their expertise and expertise and knowledge and energy to prevent major damages and to help local people and everyone else. Unfortunately, the statements of some local leaders were not quite correct in those evenings, these were the people who had been preparing themselves for weeks because the left thrust on Lonja was raised 8 days earlier to the height that was raised, were on call teams, worked maximum, the local population was involved and I think we did a good job. The damages are significant but not nearly as big as they would have happened if there had been a shooting of the embankment and the rest. Irregular construction in water-protective areas that, in this law, we did some things about the first and second zones, compared to the third and lower order of use and pesticides and what you said. Irrigation systems, the need for irrigation in the Republic of Croatia as a agricultural country, a country that has exceptional opportunities for intensive agricultural production, the production of cultures that require irrigation, I am talking about nearly 500 thousand hectares that are suitable for irrigation. Can we be satisfied with the current level of usability and surfaces under irrigation systems? No, we can't, and we predict and predict and spend significant resources on it. About 700 million kunas have been spent in irrigation systems for 5 years. The mention of beach Bosut about 300 million kuna has already been spent. There is a final phase of 100 million kuna left and this system will be dedicated to use. Also a colleague, a respected colleague, Djakic, for whom I was quite surprised when he commended so warmly this law took advantage of the opportunity to mention the Kapinci-Vaška system. Yes, last year was a broken contract, but not by the guilt of Minister Jakovina, but by the guilt of the contractors who gave the dumping price and did not perform the works. The surveillance engineer said that the work was standing, that it wasn't working. He ordered, given that the works did not continue, a tripartitely broken contract between your county and between Croatian waters and performers. The performer also paid for the loose ends. The whole project mission or project documentation covering another 700 hectares to be put into the irrigation system has been prepared, the budget for 2013, 2014 amounts to €32 million. The papers start these days, I think we'll see each other there tomorrow because we're going to open the papers, and it'll be over by the end of 2014, be safe. The bagger practice while the minister is there and then the completion of the work is not something I will practice and I am sure that in 2014 we will open an excellent one, mark the end or open and submit to management an excellent project and in your county. Furthermore, there were questions of dear fellow Holly, and I am particularly pleased that she also assessed the law as good because we also knew in the government that we had a good argument or a little stricter rhetoric about the law. It was related to Articles 5 and 50 of the Law, which referred to the 97th land parcel. We're only talking about the source, it's something we agreed on and what actually proved to be problematic from practice, so in a way, the DORH pointed out that actually around the water source of the drink, we leave maximum of 400 to 450 square meters of space for possible parcels because these particles are sometimes much larger so that there are no confusion, or abuse. And as far as the article 97 is concerned, the construction is actually a boulder and a coastal fortification with material that exists in the water stream itself. It's about something like this when you said it could be pulled so far, it couldn't have been... let's say for economic purposes, but it could have been de facto because of the waterways themselves, that material spread in the crusts or pulled out on the shore. Here we just said that it can be done, we further explained in this article how and how it can be done. The Honored colleague Grubisic referred to me as Article 64, i.e. there was no question, so I don't know how much sense it makes I think it was a question in case a particular project, i.e.... spreads to several units of local self-government who is the one running the project? As a rule, they agree to make a decision on whether the disposal of wastewater or other form of project on the proposal of all units of local self-government, and through such a provision in the law, we have put the possibility that if one of the units of local self-government does not want to do so, which is actually an interest, we will do so through projects that are agglomeration, which are linked to several units of local self-government, then it can be done by the competent ministry or minister, to make such a decision. I don't know if by any chance, if I deliberately left it to the end, my colleague Boric was last, so it's probably my turn to leave it for the end. They said you remember very fart 21. Holding, we're not talking about service areas. But again I will warn you of one more thing, the water management strategy was adopted in 2008 in this Croatian Assembly when you had the majority. It envisioned the establishment of service areas in the Republic of Croatia. We are talking about service areas where the principle will be one service area, one water delivery service provider. Now we have 157. Is that not irrationalisation, and savings and a more quality way of using water economy resources? Having one of the models is either a 21st service area or having 21st meanings, director of a utility company, 21st accounting and accompanying services, or having 157th of them? When you speak, and you have not exactly chosen the words about Croatian waters and how the central or central state takes power over the units of local self-government and reduces their rights on the principle of your beautiful island, I will tell you that these Croatian waters and the state budget make significant investments. So let me remind you that in 2010, there were 3,28 million kuna investments in the water economy in the project. 2011 13.2 million, 2012. 24.7 million, this year 45.3 million kuna. The resources of Croatian Waters, i.e. the state budget for projects on your island and in your units of local self-government. 2010. 3.2 million, this year 45.3 million. I think that's a significant difference. Of which you as a unit of local self-government have only 10%, the rest financed by the central state. That's why these fees we said were served, because according to... Waters, according to what has been negotiated and signed by the treaty and on which we will be able to use 3 billion of those 4.5 funds from the EU budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must also have a quality model of funding, i.e. the return of these funds by units of local self-government, i.e. citizens of users. You also mentioned a phantom council, a water service council was founded by the 2009 Water Act, it started working since 1.1. In 2010, it was actually an ad hoc professional body and it was appointed by this Croatian Assembly of Orders, the largest work from the ranks of experts. The powers of suspension or of taking decisions do not, if you had read the law a little better then you would see that only if, if the head of local self-government does not make a decision, or when they make a decision on a high or too low price, then the council as a regulatory body can correct and make a decision instead of an irresponsible mayor or mayor. And at local administration sometimes it is not most popular to make a decision to increase the price of municipal service or the price of water. So then we can say about a series of examples where whether on the same island or in the same county, or neighbouring counties is a very large difference in water prices, some do not want to make decisions in this way and given the level of investment, the other thing was as long as local self-government units themselves were financed or mostly financed by water supply or water supply networks and systems. We are now doing this and we have decided to model all of these projects to work through Croatian waters or we are mostly working through Croatian waters, and then we are also looking for some fairness in determining the price to be paid for these services. I once again mention a professional body that has been working since 2009, has not been invented by Minister Jakovina as another institution or something that should not. I'm sorry about that, for example. I may not have heard a little more in the debates a little more positive tone, and there were today and in the debate a lot about the de facto discharge we have made, the fees for the connection that is directly aid to our citizens who join, not only those who have missed or who have illegal buildings. We have a water network coverage in the Republic of Croatia below 80%, we have a series of new water supply networks that have been made and where users have been extremely expensive to pay 6.7,000 kuna, real connection costs and pay between 4 and 7 or 9000 fees that were made by local self-government units, and it is unnecessary, it is now unnecessary if it was financed by the state. If this is paid or financed by Croatian Waters, it is no longer a fee which should be the additional revenue of the budget of the units of local self-government if they did not finance the construction of the network themselves. In this way, order has also been introduced through the compensation system, during this transitional period that we have left, since 3 years, we have not left it on Croatian waters to give them additional work, or that it will be those who will unwittingly collect and spend these funds, but because a good number of units of local self-government are not technical, administrative, human-capacitated so that they can carry out all the jobs and about the fees and I think that it shows apart from rationalisation and the need to save better organisation, better implementation of projects and the other need to introduce service areas or reduce the number of water suppliers. We have a good law, we have a law that solves a series of brakes in the procedure of issuing permits, from incentives, from investments, from enabling and easier functioning of citizens in local self-government units. We also have a law that defines a much greater responsibility for all those who are in the control and implementation system of the legal provisions themselves, and I think that we will show and demonstrate that both water utility companies and professional workers in Croatian waters will be able to do all that is their task in the coming period, this will take advantage of the considerable resources that will be available to us and all that is our obligation by 2018 and 2023, in accordance with the Water Directive. Every village over 50... should have drinking water, water system, draining is unfortunately still at a very low level but also the number of projects prepared and the way and applications of projects towards Croatian waters by local self-government units and the number of investments we made in 2012 and 2013 even more significant momentum shows that we can do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law will only allow us to be effective in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38441	Thank you very much. We have four reported replicas, the first one being the respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38442	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, you've listened a little more carefully to my part of the debate over the flooded part. In fact, it was not at all in any way on you or on anyone but simply some of the experiences suggested that something should be done. Something has also happened that hasn't happened so far. But honestly speaking to residents of Lonjsko polje, Sisak Posavina, Čička Poljana is a living fuck who is guilty, whether it is local government or Croatian water. They were swimming. Maybe if you built that road along the ravine canal from Chička Poljana towards Veleshevec, you'd make a practically natural dam of about 70, 80 cm and with... With the nastava, Chicka Poljana was practically able to protect herself from these return waters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is something that was in the government's decision in the autumn 2010 after the flood when the Sava rash broke and it was the task of Croatian roads and Croatian waters. So I know exactly what I'm talking about without intent because I said these problems are back a few dozen years. And as for what you're saying to the water council of local self-government units. You're just wrong about that. If the local self-government unit adopts a regulation that is in accordance with the law, you cannot undo it but it would also be fairer if this law were installed if the units of local self-government did not use it to impose some sort of compensation, and that amount would not have the right to help with the Croatian Waters budget, then in some way they would have forced everything into some equality and other things, I don't think it's right that those units of local self-government that receive money from Croatian waters don't need a practical connection and where citizens themselves finance the practical construction of the network must pay for the connection and, for example, I don't know by what logic this year Big Gorica didn't get out of the budget of 8 million and some more kunas and it had reported 140 million. So my Goricans have to pay for the connection and someone else who's politically-like and got the money he won't pay for the connection. So this is the principle of inequality which is not good because both Croatian waters and the budget of units of local self-government are filled with the same resources. They are filled with citizens and the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, certain criteria must be put in place because, without criteria, it is unfortunately not going to be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38443	Thank you. Here will be answered by the esteemed Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, in principle or the principle of equality or inequality is very broad talk, we would have to take some data and look at what Velika Gorica has received for the last 8 years and then compare whether it is such a drastic decline in funding this year or not. I think I've given sufficient explanation for the water service council and we're just pulling another parallel. It's not true that this is a precedent regulatory body that becomes a novelty. We have a HERA, don't we? HERA shall, in the same way, correct if those who work in the gas business or gas distribution work in an inappropriate way. We said that here still units of local self-government are those who have the right and obligation to make decisions in the amount of compensation. The agency only jumps in when they don't build that local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38445	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I've been to your place and we've discussed this problem of graveling the association of small seines, the payment of mineral raw materials in our rivers. And I promised you that I would personally support this law but I can see that the HDZ Representatives Club also recognized all the good intentions in this law that would remove everything that had not been defined before and that there was no explicit but forbidden explicit gravel to protect the environment and protect nature. This is what certainly caused economic damage in the Republic of Croatia, which is what wiped out a hundred maybe employees, which led to the collapse of those small shipowners who, by raising their loans, were left without houses and without ships and might be difficult to run with some reprogramme. And I'm sure I'll be for this law that has the good side not only in gravel but also in reducing the connection fee. But there's one more thing I'd like to say about the Capinci-Vashka project you mentioned. Yeah, I said he stopped. We opened it. The beginning of the work has begun. Before designing or losing i.e. The ability of the contractors chosen was also caused by non-payments, not with this small price, and thus by delaying payment or inability to pay they were forced to step out of this project and it is good that it was projected only with... capacity reduction I find it difficult to explain logically that there will be an increase of 700 hectares. If so, and if all this is done okay if there will be sufficient capacity I and I welcome and say let it be built as soon as possible to benefit our farmers who will surely achieve their income to achieve their profitability and profitability in their agricultural challenges.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38447	The Honorable Minister, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's another one I have to show satisfaction with my dear colleague Djakic giving support and thank you for this law. We did not go into this amendment and supplementing the law on the basis of this conversation we had, and I must say that we had because part of these farmers or small farmers is also in your county, this problem has been known since the first day, and therefore we went into law form to allow these small businesses to do their job in a quality way with all the highest standards of environmental and nature protection, or with complete control, which was often not the case unfortunately. That's one thing. I only wish that you had that attitude in 2005 and 2009 so more advocated the adoption of these laws that actually banned these people from working, the argument was not to pass. But here I think it's never too late. I think we've made a good bill of law and they'll all be able to work in a quality and controlled way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38449	The next replica of the respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38450	Thank you. Ministers are not a replica, but simply a request to answer my question, so do you have any information as to how many units of local self-government did not charge the water treatment fee under the existing law that was in force, or Article 17. The teaching of what will now be with those units of local self-government because the law says they must therefore charge compensation for water treatment along with the utility. Does this mean that, really, this addition to Article 17 with two new items where local self-government units are obliged to make monthly payments and to charge physical entities, really these people, or those citizens who have now been released and each other, will have to pay both of them now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38451	The Honorable Minister Tihomir Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38452	Dear fellow MPs with accurate data can give you a written reply but somewhere there is a ratio of 60:40. 40% of those units of local self-government that did not charge, that is to say, the right to transfer to Croatian waters and Croatian waters on behalf of those units of local self-government charged that fee to citizens. In this way, through this system of compensation, through the disposal of charges for connections and these other charges, but through such a system of compensation, a complete order will be introduced, especially through the establishment of service areas where we will have strong water service suppliers, teamed suppliers with all the services they need and which must have and which in a good way will be the payment of all those fees to be charged for water services.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38453	And the last replica of the respected representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38454	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to hear that you've seen my argument as a sniveling relationship with this law. It's your right. I did not mention any phantom councils for water, but what was mentioned in Article 58a, I quoted the articles, the Constitution, etc. Perhaps under that denominator you've spoken, you could put your relationship with us MPs, no. But well, you have the right to your styles and you can experience us even in that way, if nothing can happen to you, let alone remind you. But as far as this article is concerned, I have experiencedly cited and I know what might happen, and when it happens again, we will end up in the administrative court all together, and then we will decide what the administrative court has already decided because in this case, we have addressed this council and they have said that they are absolutely uninsistant for that segment, and then the inspectorate or the representative of the inspectorate or I don't know what the water inspection in the municipal society is, and they have also found that they cannot enter the relevant decisions of the municipal or city councils. Now, according to this article, the Water Council can make it nice to exhume them because the Parliament chose them. Who chose the council? Guys. So if that's not clear then I repeat again. It's not okay and it's not in accordance with the Constitution, and you can say whatever you want, it's your right. And I know experiencedly how it ended because if there are some 4 kunas in one local self-government, 2 in the second, so of course the one who pays 4 that will want to pay all 4 kunas, but it's right for local self-government to say our development fee is going to be 2 kunas and there is no council that can equate with its decision-making relationship. And as for investments in the island of Rab, they are because two detachment systems are being built through the programme I specified, the World Bank loan, the northern Adriatic. The value of both is over 100 million kuna and of course the share of Croatian waters in this is great because these are the rules. And that's why in 2005, and I said the same thing, we've introduced a 4 kuna development fee and it's built in drain systems that are separate and this third system that has nothing to do with them under this law doesn't have to pay for the construction of those other two because people built it themselves from their own resources and paid for the connection. It's true, because I come from there and I know what I'm saying. And in this way, those who join now should not pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38455	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister Tihomir Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, I must correct you, with great respect for all of you, and in the end, I have a mandate to have your colleague and I would sit here with you so that any kind of supremacy or improper relationship, if you happen to read from any of my testimony, then an apology but not in the rules. I only defend the items and the bases of what we do and do in this case the law that I will once again say, we must reconcile or comply with our law with the Water Framework Directive. And she made it very clear that, that there is a certain conflict of responsibility. International responsibilities across the EU are national, countries of the Republic of Croatia. And the responsibility for the development and management of watercommunal systems is local for this we use significant, significant resources. If they already give us three billion euros for better projects, then they also set certain rules regarding fees, related to prices and the rest. We can't afford to be on the same or the same or... We have various levels of water prices in our territory, given when someone was doing what they did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If certain units of local self-government self-financed systems, water systems, then it's even understandable to me that if she did this out of her budget she'll say we did it all ourselves, financed everything, we determine the fee. But it is quite hypocritical to propose projects, sign contracts with Croatian waters, take funds then, maintain the right to determine compensation, and it is contrary to what we must respect under the Framework Directive in the waters. I don't think that's going to be a problem, and there's one more thing that I say is a solution in the service areas, unifying water service suppliers, raising quality and everything that comes out of this law and the acts that come out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38457	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on the text of this law and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38458	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 346. The debate on the final bill is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 166. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's up for it? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 109 votes, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Honorable Minister of Tihomir Jakovina to explain Amendment 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38459	Thank you, Mr. President. The first amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia refers to Article 10(1) in front of the word "in case" is added "except". The amendment is nomotechnically supplementing the expressions in the way in which Article 10 is to be shown, in which cases Croatia's water is not managed by public water.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38460	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. All we can do is lead the debate by the representatives' clubs. He's not interested. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. 1. Government of the Republic. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find it unanimous with 108 votes for the adopted amendment of the Government of the Republic, which becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38461	Thank you, Mr. President. The second amendment refers to Article 29(2) of additional Article 47 and in which words "in which case lead directly or indirectly to an increase" are replaced by the words "in which case it shall lead to a direct or indirect increase in the nomotechnical addition of the pronunciation".
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38462	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 2. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 108 votes for the adopted amendment of Government No. 2 and becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number three to the Government of the Republic, please, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38463	Thank you, Mr. President. For the purposes of Article 56(4) of the amended paragraph 7 of Article 102, the words "paragraph 3 and subparagraph 4" shall be replaced by the words ". Sub-paragraph 3 and sub-paragraph 4 of the nomotechnical supplementation of the expressions."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38464	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 109 votes for the adopted amendment of Government Number 3 and becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking the Minister's explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38465	Thank you, Mr. President. It refers to Article 104, which adds paragraph 1 which reads as follows: "In Article 206(1), the word above is deleted. In the current paragraph 1 which becomes paragraph 2 of Article 206 shall be deleted, paragraphs 2 and 3 shall become paragraphs 3 and 4 nomotechnically supplementing the statement."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38466	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on Amendment 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, we have accepted Amendment 4 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We're going to Amendment 5, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38467	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 132 of paragraphs 6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the introductory word new in a particular ship and drop is deleted. In paragraph 10, the word "word" is replaced by "word" and the word "replaces" is replaced by "replaced". Nomotechnically supplementing the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38468	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. No one's answering for a hearing. I am finalising the debate on Amendment 5. Please state who is for amendment number five of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 107 votes for Amendment No. 5 of the Government of the Republic, which becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Please give an indication of amendment number 6 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38469	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 133(5), the word "new" is added after the word "addition" in the introductory sentence. In paragraph 12 in the amendment and point 11 which becomes point 19, the words "Article 18" are replaced by the words "Article 118". Nomotechnical supplementation of expressions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38470	Thank you very much, Minister. I am opening a debate on Amendment 6 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm closing the debate because no one's answering. Who's against you? Who's against you? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that from 106 votes for Amendment No. 6 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We're going to Amendment 7. The Honorable Minister of Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38471	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 134(3), the words "new" shall be deleted. Nomotechnically supplementing the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38472	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment 7 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We're interested. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on Amendment 7 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 106 votes for the adopted amendment of Government Number 7 and becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment No. 8 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please state your case.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38473	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 137, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 360 and the word "sacona is deleted". Nomotechnically supplementing the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38474	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 8. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment number 8. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment 8 has been adopted unanimously by 106 votes. The governments of the Republic of Croatia and become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number nine. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38475	Thank you, dear President. In Article 141(1), the word "zakona" is replaced by the words "The Water Law" No. 153/2009, 63/2011, 130/2011." In paragraph 2 behind the words referred to in Article 195, the word "zakona" shall be replaced by the words "The Water Law" once more by the same word "National Journals". In paragraph 3 behind the words behind Article 195, the word "zakona" is replaced by the words "The Water Law" with the words "The People's Newspaper". In paragraph 4 behind Article 195, the word "zakona" is replaced by the words "The Water Law" with the word "National Journals". Nomotechnically supplementing the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38476	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 9. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment 9 to the vote. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Okay. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of votes 80 votes in favour, 25 against and 1 abstention has been accepted Amendment No 9. The governments of the Republic of Croatia thus become an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment number 10. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38477	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 142, the words "Article 15(1)" are replaced by the words "Article 13. Water law." (National Journal No. 153/2009, 63/2011, 130/2011) which is amended in Article 9 of this Act. Nomotechnically supplementing the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38478	I'm opening a debate on Amendment 10. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38479	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I think this is ridiculous. And I'm asking all of us here what the government's legislation office is doing? Because this is real, I mean out of my mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38480	Is there anyone else who wants to discuss this? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I'd like to make a statement on Amendment 10. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 81 votes in favour and 24 votes against Amendment 10. The governments of the Republic of Croatia and become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 11. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38481	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 143(1), the words "Article 16(1)" shall be replaced by the words "Article 16. Water Act (National Journal No 153/2009, 63/2011, 130/2011)" which is amended in Article 12 of this Act. Nomotechnical processing of expressions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38482	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Vice President of the House Željko Rainer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38483	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This is starting to look like a joke. I'd like to order the government to learn to write laws, and then propose laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38484	Thank you, too. Who's answering for the word. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number 11. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour and 26 votes against Amendment No 11. Governments of the Republic of Croatia becoming an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 12, please, Minister. 12th, 12th Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38485	Article 128, point (b) of the first subparagraph, is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38486	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On amendment number 12. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number 12. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 for and 26 against Amendment 12. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and which becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment number 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38487	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 149, the term ‘nomotechnically added’ shall be drawn up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38488	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering, no need to discuss. I'm closing the debate. I ask you to come forward with an amendment number 13. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 81 votes for and 27 against and one abstention accepted Amendment 13 of the Government of the Republic and thus becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 14 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38489	Thank you, Mr. President. 14 and last, Article 153 of the nomotechnically supplements the expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38490	I'm opening a debate on Amendment 14. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment number 14 of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that Amendment 14 of the government of the Republic of Croatia was adopted with 81 votes and 26 votes against and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. We're going to the amendments to the Legislative Committee. I'm asking the Honorable Minister. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38491	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendment No 1 shall be accepted in part in the section relating to Articles 7,16,70,80,83, 115, 123,133 of the final draft of the law for the purposes of the nomotechnical addition of expressions. Amendment 1 shall not be accepted in the section relating to Articles 132 and 134 of the final proposal of the law for nomotechnical reasons but are in part accepted through Amendments 5 and 7 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the text of the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38492	Thank you very much. Please show off. Thank you very much. Sustained. The Committee is withdrawing its amendment. Amendment No 2 to Article 56 of the esteemed Mintres.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38493	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38494	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38495	Articles 57 and 122 of the amendments shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38496	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 4 of the same committee to Article 83?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38497	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38498	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38499	Article 89 of the amendments shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38500	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No 6 to Article 115.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38501	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38502	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No 7 to Article 116
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38503	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38504	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38505	Article 132 of the amendments shall not be adopted. It was not possible to accept fully for nomotechnical reasons because it was accepted in part through Amendment 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the text of the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38506	Thank you very much. The board president agrees. Okay. This has been resolved by the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to the amendments to the club. I'm sorry it's written differently. Amendment 9 to the Legislative Committee. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38507	Articles 141, 149 and 153 of the amendments shall not be adopted. It was not possible to accept it entirely for nomotechnical reasons but were partly accepted through Amendments 9,13 and 14 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the final text of the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38508	Consent, thank you very much, President of the Committee. We have exhausted the amendments of the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to the amendments to the National Minority Representatives' Club. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38509	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. It is not possible to accept it for reasons why, if it is a property of water goods owned by units of local self-government, it is the same under the Law on Waters of the Ek lega that became a public water well owned by the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, even the availability of a foreign unit of local self-government could not be justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38510	On behalf of Proposer Dennis Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38511	We accept the argument that the current text will also allow for the destruction of objects on that green island or auxiliary facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38512	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. If I can determine. We are going to the amendment of the respected deputy president of Dom Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38513	Thank you, Mr. President. The first amendment to Article 17 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38514	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38515	Article 71 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38516	Amendment No 3
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38517	Article 72 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38518	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'd like to make a statement about the final bill. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 102 votes voted in favour, one vote against and two abstentions were passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38622	We would now move to the following point: - Final proposal of the Law on critical infrastructures, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 324; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38623	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. National critical infrastructures are networks and facilities of national importance whose interruption or termination of the supply of goods and services may have serious consequences for national security, health and lives of people, property, environment, security and economic stability and continued functioning of authorities. European critical infrastructures shall be networks and systems of significance for at least two Member States or one Member State if they are located on the territory of another country. For the sake of all these objectives, this law ensures that critical infrastructures operate in all conditions, i.e. ensuring their rapid recovery and action after an extraordinary event occurs. This also ensures community resilience for all harmful activities. The European Union is seeking to protect these critical infrastructures with one plan from all kinds of threats and risks from natural disasters to industrial action and malicious action, including terrorism. In order to achieve this, it is also necessary to ensure their protection in which the Government must be involved, all central authorities of the state administration and the owners and managers of critical infrastructures each within the framework of their respective competences. The area of critical infrastructure has been regulated normally throughout the world in the last 10 years. Since 2002, there has been an international norm within NATO and it has been valid for the Republic of Croatia, but the issue of national critical infrastructures, their determination, why in the Republic of Croatia has not been prescribed so far. In 2008, the EU adopted Directive 2008 The 114 EC of 8 December 2008 on the determination and designation of critical infrastructures in Europe and the assessment of the need to improve their protection by regulating the issue of European critical infrastructures and Member States are competent to regulate the issue of national critical infrastructures themselves. The Directive shall apply from 12 January 2011. The Republic of Croatia must apply that directive in its legislation and apply it until its accession to full membership in the European Union. At the same time, it is necessary to regulate the issue of national critical infrastructures, as European critical infrastructures are generally identified, defined and protected in the same way as national critical infrastructures, and this is the normative definition and prerequisite of the application of the EU Directive. European critical infrastructures The Government of the Republic of Croatia will be able to determine on a proposal from interested members after the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member. This Law authorises the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine sectors of critical infrastructure and to decide, on a proposal from the central authorities, on the determination of certain critical infrastructures. As is said, the aim is to ensure the protection and operation of critical infrastructures in all conditions, which also achieves the preconditions for the functioning of the economy and society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38624	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the SDP and co-worker club Lidija Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38625	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable deputy minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we have before us, as the opening colleague has already said, the proposal for a law on critical infrastructures, which is a necessary tool in raising the level of security of the state. The number of disasters is growing alarming year by year, both with its frequency and intensity. Let's just remember Chernobyl from 86 years ago, then attacking the 2011 World Trade Center in New York, an explosion of oil platforms in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. Fukushima from 2011 and many others. A reduction in the risk of disasters has been shown to have a large positive cost-benefit ratio. The studies carried out have shown that each dollar invested in prevention involves between $2 and $4 needed for recovery, and better preparation and prevention are achieved by risk management. The State Protection and Rescue Authority produced a document called "Assessing the threat of the Republic of Croatia from natural and technical and technological disasters and major disasters" containing a list of all potential natural disasters and the consequences that could be for Croatian citizens. The biggest threats to the Republic of Croatia were estimated to be earthquakes and floods, then near NE Krško as a potential danger, as well as the threat of mines and the danger of terrorist attacks. The document also analyses the readiness of the Croatian security system to respond to these threats. The target of terrorist attacks is, as a rule, a critical state infrastructure that involves energy infrastructure, communication, hospitals, public water supply systems, airports, roads, railways, buildings of state and local institutions, and therefore it is necessary to define this critical infrastructure and assess the need for its protection. The European Union defines critical infrastructures as material and information resources, devices, networks, services and assets that have a significant negative impact on the health, safety, protection and economic well-being of citizens and the effective functioning of the governments of the European Union. The protection of critical infrastructure is one of the key priorities of the European Union and a European programme for the protection of critical infrastructure has been launched with an emphasis on the identification and designation of these infrastructures, as well as an assessment of the need to improve protection. Accordingly, as already mentioned in 2008, Directive 2008/114/EC on the definition and designation of critical infrastructures in Europe and on the assessment of the need to improve their protection by regulating the issue of European critical infrastructures is adopted, and Member States are competent to regulate the issues of national critical infrastructures themselves. The Directive shall apply from 12 January 2011, and the Republic of Croatia must transpose the Directive into its legislation and apply it until its accession to full membership of the European Union. This law creates a normative framework for the definition of critical infrastructures, their management and the development of risk analysis. As a central authority and national contact point, the State Office for Protection and Rescue shall be designated. The Central Authority will adopt within 6 months a Regulation on a methodology for drawing up a risk analysis of critical infrastructures, and the owners of critical infrastructures are obliged to develop a risk analysis and a safety plan covering the protection and insurance measures of continuing operations. This law is an important link in strengthening the security chain because it allows the database necessary for risk management. We will all agree that safety is invaluable, both for all Croatian citizens and for the promotion of Croatia as a safe tourist destination. In numerous studies of our country's competitiveness on the world tourism market, safety is one of the key factors and we should certainly keep it safe. In order to update this problem in scientific and professional circles, as well as in the general public, it is commendable to hold an annual conference of Croatia's disaster risk reduction platform organised by the State Protection and Rescue Authority regularly since 2009. Finally, I would like to say that the CRI is a necessary tool to increase the security of the Republic of Croatia and the SDP club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38626	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38627	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. During the proposal and the proposal for a law on critical infrastructures, we can conclude that critical national infrastructures are network systems and facilities of national importance whose interruption or termination of the supply of goods or services may have serious consequences for national security, human health and life, property and the environment, security and economic stability and continuous functioning of the authorities. The critical infrastructures in the Republic of Croatia have so far not been defined or the need to protect and ensure continuous action in the Republic of Croatia in all, especially in exceptional situations, which is a special emphasis. This law, therefore, in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, takes over the legal property of the European Union contained in the Council Directive. This law will also create a normative framework for the definition of critical infrastructures, which aims to raise the level of security of the operation of critical infrastructures. This law also regulates the rights, powers and obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the central authorities of the state administration, powers, rights and obligations of the owners and managers of critical infrastructures in the identification, determination and protection of national critical infrastructures and ensuring their continuous action. The law will be defined at national level as a way of determining and protecting critical infrastructures and then ensuring the protection and continued action of European critical infrastructures. That this is a fairly broad part of the action speaks and defines sectors that make up national critical infrastructures. They specialise in energy, communication, information technology, transport, healthcare, water economy, food, finance, production, storage and transport of dangerous substances, public services and national monuments and values. This almost includes the whole range of activities of the social segment, but, of course, despite that segment and the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, other critical infrastructures and also other sectors can be determined. The criteria for determining a particular network of systems and facilities by means of a national critical infrastructure shall constitute classified information and shall be marked by an appropriate degree of secrecy in accordance with specific rules on the confidentiality of data. The owners and managers of critical infrastructure shall be obliged to adopt a security plan with the prior consent of the Central Authority to the purpose and part-round of critical infrastructure. In the process of unanimity, the competent central authorities of the state administration shall, in cooperation with the relevant regulatory agencies, determine whether the security plan has been developed with respect to cross-sectoral and sectoral criteria. Of course, the security plan of the owners and managers of critical infrastructures is part of the business plan of the legal person and is not publicly available. European critical infrastructures are infrastructures which are of interest to at least two Member States or one Member State and are located on the territory of another Member State. Data related to the identification of a particular critical infrastructure by a European critical infrastructure are classified data and are re-labelled by an appropriate degree of secrecy and the criteria for determining the degrees of confidentiality of such data are prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The European critical infrastructures in the Republic of Croatia are protected in the same way as national critical infrastructures, unless the EU provisions provide otherwise. Of course, every law of course and the determination of action should also be supervised, that is, inspection. The implementation of this law by the manager of critical infrastructures shall be carried out by the Central Authorities of the State Administration in which the individual critical infrastructures and the relevant regulatory agencies are located. If the inspector finds that he is not authorised to act directly during inspection, he shall immediately inform the competent central authority of the State Administration or the regulatory agency and shall request the initiation of the procedure and take measures in accordance with specific regulations. Within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law, the central authorities of the state administration shall propose critical infrastructures from the sector to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, from their detour and their level of criticism to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Given that this law in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia takes over the legal property of the EU contained in the Council Directive, what we have already highlighted at the beginning of security is what we can best be interested in the Croatian People's Party club supports the adoption of a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38628	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38629	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Assistant and Deputy Minister. The new law, on the one hand, means that critical infrastructures have been announced, and in this sense we are passing one law in line with how we should behave in the EU, but it would be wrong to think that we have not so far taken care of objects of particular national interest and their protection. Therefore, this law takes place in a new context and it is good that it is so articulated that we have in one place to take account of this national and future national information, infrastructure and also of the European critical infrastructure that passes or in which Croatia participates. A few remarks that can be made to this law. The first proposer assumes that there will be no cost. This is simply not realistic because the risk analysis and possible scenarios, threats to determine, predict vulnerabilities or prevent losses are already at stake in this risk analysis. On the other hand, the law provides for security coordinators to be provided for in all these infrastructures. So, and that's one activity that will require additional costs, because I guess we're not on it, we're not standing in that position that there are people who don't do anything, so now we're going to hire them on extra jobs to do something. And in that sense, I think it needs to be more rational in laws like this to predict costs. You have something that's already known to exist, or that doesn't exist. This is about terrorism, terrorist attacks. What is used, and part of it is then these critical infrastructures are computer networks, that cybernetic or whatever information infrastructure. We do not have a centre for monitoring it as other countries have already formed it, so informing such a single centre that we will probably not be able to avoid assuming a certain cost. However, I would like to warn here a few more things that have been said on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. In the law, this draft law in point 6 provides that these coordinators, the competent authority, means the state administration, will inform the competent state administration once a year of the state of critical infrastructure. It is provided for in Article 17 that the Government will report to the European Commission, i.e. partners in Europe, on those parts relating to European critical infrastructure, and no one is scheduled to report on this critical infrastructure to the Croatian Parliament, or the competent board of the Croatian Parliament. I am therefore pleased to be able to say here what has been adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security by the amendment proposing that the report also be submitted to the Committee of the Croatian Parliament for National Security. In this sense, it just means to strengthen the position and role of the Croatian Parliament in all of this. There's another dimension that, in my opinion, is quite poorly represented here. I think he's already talked to a colleague before that it's about data that, on information security, on protected data, and in that sense, I think some articles should be supplemented. In Article 13(2), it reads as follows: "The security plan of the owner of critical infrastructure managers is part of the business plan of the legal person and is not publicly available." However, for all other reasons, parts and data of the security plan, which could allow for serious consequences on national security, health and people's lives, should continue to be made known. Because first of all, this doesn't imply this second provision. Otherwise, also in Article 14 which states that the Central State Authorities of the Administration designate a security coordinator for critical infrastructure and later also owners of critical infrastructure managers are obliged to designate a security coordinator for that infrastructure should add two new articles and specify. The security coordinator referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall propose, organise, monitor the state of confidentiality and integrity and the availability of data by applying the prescribed measures in the information security standards and participate in the extraordinary and regular review of the security plans in accordance with Article 13(4) of this Act. Once a year, a report shall be submitted to the central authorities of the state administration and to the owner of the manager whose part is the critical infrastructure on the state and implementation of the security measures and procedures proposed to supplement. In fact, it's something I know, which is a lack of some other regulations or laws better said, and it's not even in this law that controls the protection of the confidentiality of information and the protection of the security of information systems. This should be in my opinion the National Security Council Office and the Information System Security Office. They shall, as defined by their jurisdiction, not necessarily until such time as it is defined that all part of this national critical infrastructure is not necessarily competent to do so. And therefore that segment, or their powers, should also be extended, defined by this law. In that sense, I think we should adopt these amendments which one already is before you on behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the other will be, I have also proposed some amendments. I think we should consider them and adopt them. Here, in that context, I think the HDZ will also accept, or support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38630	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38631	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. The establishment of national critical infrastructures in terms of the security of citizens and citizens but also of the Republic of Croatia as a whole for the HDSSB club is one of the most important national security issues and not only the takeover of the 2008 European Directive into the national system of the Republic of Croatia but also the obligation to protect the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. We heard in the previous statement that there existed in view of our NATO obligations, a current framework that has not been normably established as proposed in this bill that it does not turn out that we were in a security environment as a state, regardless of our obligations to adopt EU directives. In view of the possible critical infrastructures from energy, communication and information technologies, transport, health, water economy, food, finance, production, public services, it is also a question of the importance of the problem in question. First of all, we will support the law, support and accept the amendment concerning the introduction of the law and the obligation to report once a year to the Parliament's Committee on National Security and Internal Policy, because yet the Croatian Parliament should be informed of these issues. And we will also support the amendment concerning the security coordinators in view of the proposed amendment and the resolution of this issue. It is also suggested that people who will monitor, control critical infrastructures are subject to information security rules, it is certain that security checks should be carried out on people who will be able to enter certain data that has a mark of any business secrets, any state secrets, persons who will have codes to enter individual systems of any information, any systems that can enter energy systems, water systems and the like. They therefore need to pass those strict controls, security checks because it is, however, national security and the possibility of jeopardising and the same national security. The problem, therefore, is that it can also cause human losses, economic losses and different public influences, should therefore be considered in particular in terms of the verification of persons who will lead to supervision of these issues. As far as our obligations as full-fledged EU members of 1.7 are concerned, it is the adoption of directives that have resolved this issue in a different way, and also national states are left with the possibility that in their legislative space, normative arrangements and themselves determine certain elements of determining critical infrastructures, the meaning of their control and protection. And we therefore believe that in this legislative proposal it is well postponed. This is the first time that this normative framework and this law are proposed in this way, but these proposals that have come into debate should also be taken into account, so that the issue of security is extended to those elements that could potentially endanger that national security. As regards the identification of European critical infrastructures, it will be our obligation, therefore, to the Republic of Croatia and the countries in our environment, as regards both the Republic of Croatia and another EU member, so that is all that is provided for by the European Directive and what is our obligation and which we must implement in our law. In short, so we will support this bill and support the amendments that have been given to the text of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38632	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38633	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, or Deputy Minister. Here, I hope that there will be no clubs, clearly no individuals in the Croatian Parliament who will raise their hand against this legislative proposal on critical infrastructures bearing the E mark, therefore European and comes by emergency procedure, given that the time of entry into the EU, i.e. that the sand has leaked and that here we are in 2 months. I hope that this law, indeed, will take it seriously, not as the bombing on the railway in the Vice-Nurse and bus stop, the prime minister said that this is where the new year began cheerfully. So this is a serious matter and a serious law that is actually written and which is meant to respect EU directives and also to take care of national security, so to national Croatia, but also to security in its environment. It clearly refers to a infrastructure that, I say, is vulnerable, in which there are possible natural disasters or terrorist attacks, starting with terrorist attacks as we see them in a wider environment, above all from America and beyond, Iraq and Asia, the rest of Asia. But we also already had almost-recognizable infrastructure facilities and a network that is very vulnerable, which connects exactly as two, at least two EU members have said by definition. So we have a pipeline, we have a pipeline, we have a bridge on the Drava River towards, bridges towards Hungary which is also an EU member, but also a infrastructure that is connected to other countries that are not or will not be EU members for long, because we are still to say the border area of the EU to others, according to the countries so-called. The Western Balkans like the English to say it in Europe. Although that term is a novelty and I wouldn't be talking about it right now. So what's already said here, that mine areas, the Krško nuclear power plant, floods which, therefore, the Drava River springs in Italy, flows through Austria, Hungary, Croatia, so the border river is several EU countries, then communicates in particular what Professor Tudjman was talking about, so the information infrastructure that can also be vulnerable. And we're aware and we're even witnessing an intrusion into, to say, the network of these information systems and since that's how it's necessary to really consider this definition, that no additional funds are needed in the budget, and we know that they will need to hire both verified and experienced, so the security coordinators are almost in each area of these listed and ordered areas in the infrastructure. The very fact therefore requires the employment of such people, verified, excellent, experienced and trained in this regard, to require quite certain additional resources in the state budget. What in the text itself in the assessment of the situation, I find it somewhat surprising to say, says in the assessment of the situation and the basic questions: "The directive applies in the Member States, excuse me, this law will create a normative framework for defining critical infrastructures which will raise the level of security and the actions of critical infrastructures." Therefore, by defining that it is a critical infrastructure it will not raise the level of security of the operation of critical infrastructures. It is precisely what is prescribed in further articles of this law, therefore by the engagement and security coordinators, and by raising the State Security and Rescue Administration to a higher level, and by predicting all possibilities that can happen precisely in connection with the operation of critical infrastructures. In any case, the law should be supported with the acceptance and the amendment proposed by the Committee but it is good to consider what Professor Tudjman said would also be named by the responsible persons who would supervise or control those who would be security coordinators in observing the threat to critical infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38634	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. In the bill of law, we'll vote compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38635	Final draft law on critical infrastructures, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 324. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and Honorable Representative Miroslav Tudjman. I ask the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Evelin Tonkovic, to declare the amendments. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38636	Thank you, President of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38637	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of Honored Representative Miroslav Tudjman, Amendment No 1 to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38638	Article 2 The government also does not accept this, if you allow a brief explanation, for the reason that dealing with sensitive data on national and European critical infrastructure is prescribed in Article 19 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38639	Thank you very much. I would like to make it clear that the honourable representative of Miroslav Tudjman...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38640	In this Article 13, something else is said, it is said that the data is now not publicly available, therefore it does not assume the classification of data but can be subdued under a business secret which is not enough to protect itself as classified data. Therefore, it is one cloudy mass then, the law is in this unspeakable, and what is later on does not define this position by asking a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38641	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the honourable representative, Miroslav Tudjman, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment 2 to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38642	The government also does not accept this amendment. If you allow a brief explanation, the draft law defines the obligations of the central authority of the state administration and the regulatory agency on the definition and determination of national and European critical infrastructures and their protection. The scope of these operations exceeds the scope of the tasks of the security coordinator and of the central authority of the state administration as well as of the owner of critical infrastructure managers and including a large number of employees. It is noted again that the issue of security clearance has been regulated in Article 19 of the proposal of that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38643	Thank you very much. Please show the subject of amendments to the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38644	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is again that it means that it does not define the law, the classification of such data does not determine who will oversee it, and the non-inclusion of such a provision cannot then be brought into contact with the Office of the National Security Council and with the Information System Protection Office in order to make them subject to supervision of these data. Therefore, without such a provision simply the law will not be functional, it will not be possible to implement this. Please vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38645	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 2nd Honored Representative of Miroslav Tudjman, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. That's how we exhausted the list of amendments. Please state who's in favor of the final bill? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that the CRI Act in the text has been unanimously adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38646	We move on to - Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the work of the Danube Police and Security Coordination Centre, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 294 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want to explain? Yeah. Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38647	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. At a session held on 4 June 2012, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Decision opening the procedure for the conclusion of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government on the work of the Danube Police and Security Coordination Centre. The MUP Republic participated in the activities of the implementation of the EU strategy for the Danube region, etc. The Danube strategy which has been recognised as strategically significant for the Republic of Croatia. International police co-operation with countries in the Danube region is also carried out through a joint IPA project called police cooperation in the cross-border Danube area at the border of the Republic of Croatia and Hungary. The purpose of this project was to strengthen cross-border cooperation in order to improve and simplify border control procedures in the Danube. The project consists of three components. One of them was the establishment of a joint information exchange centre, located in more spacious, or spaces. It's a border crossing in Mohač, Hungary. The other two components were the implementation of common river patrols in the Danube and the improvement of border control procedures using the river information system. Assuming that the initiatives in the coming period will be joined by other Danube countries to create formal assumptions for the successful implementation of that Hungarian side, the conclusion of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Hungary in the work of the Danube Police and Security Coordination Centre, which established another mechanism that contributes to deepening mutual cooperation in the field of improving and simplifying border control procedures in the Danube. This agreement was signed by the Croatian Assistant Minister of Interior Mr Nebojsa Kirigin for the government of the Republic of Hungary, Mr Nebojsa Kirigin and the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Hungary Sandor Pinter, for the government of the Republic of Croatia. Requests for the supply of data directly relating to the person or person of the vehicle of any other subject, document, visa or similar matter shall be processed in haste. However, if the delivery of such data would be rejected or similar to this principled cooperation would be or could endanger the interests or general security of the countries, then this would not be followed by the speedy delivery and processing of such data. These data exchanged shall be based on standardised forms which, in all other contact services, are applicable to both centres and points, police data exchange centres and exchange and protection of such data and information, shall apply all rules and standards applicable to the EU. This law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Hungary in the work of the Danube Police and Security Coordination Centre of the Agreement confirms its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Republic of Croatia entered into force and became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38648	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First in line on behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38649	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So here's Mr. Deputy Minister said more or less everything he needed to say about the bill to confirm the agreement between the government of the Republic of Hungary and the government in the work of the Danube Police and Security Coordination Centre. I will immediately say in front of the HDZ Club this bill of law will be accepted without further delay in justifying the urgency of the procedure because all this said proposal of the Law is convincing and necessary to finally begin its work. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, it is, in fact, said to come in a broader sense from the joint IPA project of police co-operation across the Danube border at the border of the Republic of Hungary. It has therefore been set up through the three basic elements of the establishment of this information exchange centre in Mohač, the implementation of common words on the treatment of the Danube and the improvement of border control procedures using the river information system. I stress that the foundation of this law is actually an agreement on the work of the center. So the emphasis is on the work of the centre and the centre itself was already established in December last year, which also ended a regional IPA project of police cooperation so in the cross-border area of the Danube on the Croatian-Hungarian border worth 237 thousand 480 euros and started half of 2011. As far as I'm aware, it's supposed to start working at the beginning of this year, so here's the time to organize it because it's already half April, or it's over. I find it personally interesting and positive to see how one element of the joint project is formalised through an interstate agreement. The tendency of the agreement is to include other Danube countries, and what is very important is that at this stage it costs us nothing. And as the new centre has been said, there is no pre-named authority that would in any way in any way violate the sovereignty of the state, but rather comes down to the exchange of information, coordination, support for the affairs of the river and border police for foreigners and customs administrations and control of disaster management. It is known that international cooperation on the ground needs to ensure that there is no commitment beyond the forms of cooperation provided for by the international treaty, and I believe that this will not be the case here. And on our country's cooperation with neighbouring Hungary that we have over a hundred joint projects, of course not only related to police cooperation but in general both IPA and some other regional initiatives and even 136 international contracts and acts. It is important to stress that it would be directed within the meaning of Article 11(1) of this Agreement to seek as much as possible from our position to achieve access to other countries along the Danube by this Agreement. In today’s time when everything has become global and so is crime, it is simply impossible to threaten the consciousness of local importance. So only a wider cooperation can help adequately in their repression. There's something else I could say about the need for faster information colliding between the police of neighbouring countries, but I hope by letting this centre work, it will simply come in itself. How important this is for the EU since it is one of its external borders, there is no need to speak. I think that the adaptations to this new state in which our border so that the border of the Republic of Croatia becomes, in fact, the border of the EU and becomes a Schengen area speaks to the strategic plan of the Ministry of Interior in 2012-2014, which points out that a number of border police officers working on the internal border will be deployed on the external border and this highlights the need to develop cooperation with EU member states as well as countries in the environment, in the light of the strengthening of institutional and administrative capacity through IPA projects using all possible technical assistance to take over the best practice of EU Member States in the field of internal affairs and all of this is integrated into a pre-start mosaic that needs to ensure continued continuity. So I hope that by letting this centre work, all the goals set out in this will be expressed and that if there are difficulties, we will succeed in removing them in order to advance... and the HDZ Club supports this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38650	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38651	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy. Here I have reported that, on behalf of our club, I would at least once again underline two facts about the debate on this bill, particularly the fact that the excellent interstate and inter-neighbor cooperation between the Republic of Hungary and the fact that Croatia is a Danube country, and that perhaps we have not mentioned enough or used it so far. When I talk about good neighbourly relations, then I want to do it again because this whole package of decisions we're making these days is going to meet on July 1st this year. I would like to remind you that Hungary has just chaired the EU at a time when Croatia has been vigorously trying to wrap up negotiations. So the first half of 2011 at a time when there is few who are in the EU, but I dare say in Croatia that we will probably end the negotiations and become an EU member. Hungary, as chairman at that time, was also giving strong support but also active support and supported our efforts to work in the very finesse that it was a scary moment to really end. And I remind you, on 25 June 2011, in the EU Council just now President Van Rompuy, President Barroso, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Hungary, Mr Orban, declared with me that the Republic of Croatia has finished negotiations and is becoming a proud member of the EU. So I use this opportunity and this payphone once again to thank my Hungarian colleagues and friends for this sincere support and for their help. And I believe that when the Republic of Croatia comes to the agenda of our neighbours' European path, of course when they meet all the obligations and all the conditions will show that we are equally good, honest and open neighbors. As far as the law itself is concerned and the confirmation of this agreement, of course it needs to be confirmed. My question is equally true since this agreement was signed in October last year, could we have made a decision on this law before? We probably are and of course we are about the moment when the centre begins to work, since the reasoning of the law indicates that the centre will start at the beginning of 2013. So here we are a little bit more in May, so the question refers to a quick, or a timing in which all the following activities will take place. We certainly support, of course, what is the main intensity of this law, which is actually the fight against crime at different levels. Because however countries, neighbours have to cooperate well in all segments at all levels because the fact is that crime organized crime always seems to go a step faster, a step faster and faster. Therefore, we must be more determined in this regard. Finally, since there is also talk here in the reasoning of the law that there is no need for additional resources to implement this law in fact, I doubt it because it seems to me that no matter what space is provided in Mohač and all that is clearly specified in the agreement itself, but it seems to me that the achievement of this large project which is not unrequited is going to require some material resources. It would be good to predict them if it were necessary, because I think the worst thing that could happen to us would be that we don't have money in the middle of the project and then we have to wait for a possible budget rebalance. In any case, support and once again proof that we are actually a de facto member of the EU because we will talk very quickly about the border of the Republic of Croatia with our neighbours, Southeast Europe as EU borders. And finally a question that has nothing to do with this point, but it has to do with the work of the Ministry of the Interior. In fact, I noticed by looking at the agenda that again the Law on Public Orders and Peace has been put at the very end of our agenda, which, of course, I have read in politics that the government is slowly but certainly giving up on the law. The law was passed at a session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would like to know what the fate of that law is. If the government gave up that proposal, then I think it would only be logical to pull it out of the agenda, not to keep it at the bottom like this, asking questions about what's going on with it because it's an important law, or an object that the law deals with. Here, Deputy, perhaps you can answer that question by the end of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38652	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38653	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Electricity, let's isolate this microphone or I'll isolate myself. So, Mr. Deputy Minister and the HDSSB Club will accept this proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Hungary on the work of the Danube Police and Security Coordination Centre, which is here before us and in the final form and by an urgent procedure. All by emergency procedure like '45. So it is about the work of the Croatian side and participation in the work of the Danube Police and Coordination Centre and not only him but also participation in to say in Danube patrols. So it's about that center in Mohač, right where it was the famous battle of 1526, as I remember history. And I think that if Croatians also participate in the work of the centre then it certainly requires certain means for the work. Although I say as my colleagues the predecessors writes that no financial addition is needed in the Republic of Croatia's budget for work. It is true how counterpart Milas said that 240 000 euros were spent to build that centre somewhere in Mohač's port. I was driving a computer or a skeleton across the Danube to Mojac, so I know exactly where that center was located. However, I must state here that this is only one I would say from projects, joint projects of Hungary and Croatia, here is today a friendly country. Although we look at little MOL and INA and we are not exactly like that, but still friendly countries where more than 100m euros have been withdrawn from pre-accession funds of cross-border cooperation between Hungary and Croatia, mainly from Osijek-Baranja County, but also from Vukovar-Srijem County, so to joint projects, joint projects, so at our borders Baranja, Osijek-Baranja County, Vukovar-Srijem and Baranja province in Hungary. There's also Baranja as a province. It is called the joint IPA project called police cooperation in the cross-border Danube area at the border of the Republic of Croatia and Hungary's COPO. We could translate that into translation and translate that into police coordination, right? Police coordination so that we don't bother with these abbreviations refers to the purpose of promotion, so police cooperation in the Danube area. But since it is also done here, it is mentioned in the text itself on basic issues which are proposed to be regulated by law and the Danube Strategy, which we are signatories of. So, this Danube strategy is not only about the cooperation of Hungary and Croatia but also other Danube countries, then I must say here that I am sorry that such measures and such projects, cross-border projects are not being implemented with some other countries. And I must also point out that although we are entering the European Union, even though we are some kind of arbitration agreement that I consider negative, therefore the HDSB club, we still have an unresolved problem with the Republic of Serbia in the Danube, and Serbia is included in the so-called. It's a Danube strategy. This is not a question of the Ministry of the Interior but, above all, the issue of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the entire government and relations of the Republic of Croatia and Serbia, but in the framework of the Danube strategy it will also come on the agenda, only when and in what form. It is good that with the Republic of Hungary we have or as Hungarians Hungarian orsag say, we have a resolved border line, a border line and we do not have such problems, but a Danube strategy which is covered by the initiative and above all by the European Union, so it does not belong only to Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Austria, and BiH, so even though it does not go to the Danube. So sooner or later, there'll be this on the agenda... and the issue of setting up the border line of the Charengrad ade and the kenji with tens of thousands of acres on the left bank of the Danube. What we're going to discuss then, and if we're going to be like this, and if there's going to be this few of us at that moment when we're going to discuss it, we're going to see it. In any case, we have no objection to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38654	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll get back to you on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38655	Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Hungary on the work of the Danube Police and Security Coordination Centre, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 294. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that it is unanimous with 100 votes to pass the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Hungary on the work of the Danube Police Security Coordination Centre in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38656	We move to - Final proposal of the water law for human consumption, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 322 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. The applicant’s representative assesses that there is no need for an introductory explanation of the law. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are clubs. SDP club and colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38657	Dear Madam Vice President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy. The water law for human consumption primarily regulates the health-accessibility issues of water intended for human consumption, i.e. all water in its original state or after processing intended for drinking, cooking, preparation of food or other household needs, irrespective of its origin, whether it originates in a system of public water supply from tanks or bottles, as well as those used in food production. This law also lays down law enforcement bodies, the obligations of those involved in the supply of water for human consumption, monitoring and others, and all in order to protect human health and ensure the health of water for human consumption. Given the importance of water for human life and health, as well as the importance of healthy and unpolluted water as one of our most valuable resources, the SDP advocates club supports the adoption of the proposed law. In this context, we specifically set out a legal provision that clearly and unequivocally protects water supply sites and water supply systems that must be protected from any accidental or deliberate pollution and any other influences that may endanger the health of water for human consumption, but also a provision which determines that water must not be added to any substance other than those requiring treatment or disinfection. The law also requires that the water used for human consumption must meet the defined parameters at each stage of arrival to the consumer and at the place of consumption, on the faucet of the tanker, at the place of filling in bottles, etc. In order to ensure that such protection is implemented by this law, the adoption of regulations which are regulated parameters for the verification of the conformity of water for human consumption, as well as sanitary, hygiene and other conditions to be met by water supply facilities shall be prescribed. Legal persons engaged in water supply are subject to strict measures to implement in order to ensure the declared protection of water and the health correctness of products that eventually reach consumers. Thus, obligations to protect and maintain water supply facilities are prescribed, ensuring that water supply facilities meet sanitary and hygiene conditions, are required to establish a HASAP system of self-control of water health, ensure regular water sampling, etc. In particular, what is stressed in these obligations is the regulation of measures to be taken by those legal persons in the event of derogation from the prescribed parameters, as well as the obligation to enable the competent authority, or persons authorised to carry out official controls, to take the necessary amounts of water samples for the purpose of monitoring. However, regardless of the obligation of persons engaged in water supply to ensure the health of water for human consumption, the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, the County and the City of Zagreb who are obliged to ensure that water monitoring is carried out for human consumption. This monitoring plays a special role for the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which will coordinate the implementation of monitoring, which will propose a plan for regular and audit monitoring and manage the report database, etc. Also, in order to ensure quality information for those whose water is intended, therefore, consumers are required to publish in an adequate manner information on all tolerances, measures taken and the health risks of water for human consumption, with an additional obligation to notify competent public health institutions. In short, we consider it to be a quality law that will certainly play an important role in ensuring the quality of one of the most important resources we have for Croatian citizens, which is water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38658	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38659	Thank you, well-respected vice president, dear deputy minister with associate, few colleagues and colleagues. Water is a prerequisite for people's lives and health, but of course only if it is healthy. With this law, we are doing this and the HNS club will support the proposal for a law on water for human consumption, we will vote in favour. The main objective of the directive with which we are regulating, harmonising our legislation and adopting this law is to ensure that the water delivered is suitable in order to prevent diseases, or of course to protect human health from the negative effects of any pollution of water intended for human consumption. As a kind of warning that water relations need to be changed and more actively involved in its protection, the UN declared on 22 March the world water day, and according to UN data, around a billion people on earth do not have a permanent access to unhealthy but health-rights as today, a colleague of the twilight is leading us from 2005 to 2015 for decades of water under the code of water for life. Data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health show that drinking water supply from public water supply systems is about 85% at our country level and that about 320,000 inhabitants use water from small, uncontrolled water supply systems. The lowest percentage of supply has a Bjelovar-Bilogor County of about 50% and the largest Primorje-Gorski County with almost 100% supply. The main objectives of one of the 12 EU Water Directives with which we coordinate our legislation are to use water throughout life, throughout our lives without the danger of harmful effects on human health and to ensure that there are no micro-organisms, parasites and substances in the water that are dangerous to our health. I hope that's the way it is. According to laboratory analysis results, the average number of drinking water samples that do not meet the sanitary standards is about 10% at Croatia level, and among the counties there are large differences in results as well as in the number of samples examined annually. The most common cause of chemical failure refers to physical properties of water. The standards of water supply of the population in Croatia have not yet been fully established in the case of some small local water pipelines that are outside the public water supply system and individual wells or wells as you wish to call them. In order for water to be healthy for drinking, it must meet certain requirements related to microbiology, chemistry, radio activity, appearance and the like. This bill regulates who, how and when determines the quality of water for human consumption. The results and measures to be taken by the Ministry of Health on their websites and by other means must be notified, it has an obligation to inform the residents of our country, so it must inform them. A special role and tasks under this legislative proposal are provided by the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which coordinates the implementation of water health monitoring for human consumption, manages the database of all data on the monitors carried out and actually ensures that information on the state of water for human consumption is available at all times. The obligation to advise the public and to provide additional information to the public also has a competent Public Health Services, especially when it comes to health risks with a focus on some, sensitive populations, on a sensitive part of our population. In the implementation of this law, the Ministry of Health must cooperate with the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, with the Ministry of Agriculture and Croatian Waters, which shall report to the European Commission on the solutions provided for in this law, and in particular on the measures and health law. Otherwise, on our way to the European family, the European Commission has told us that, in contrast to some others, great efforts have to be made in their progress, and that is true. We have done a lot as a country in recent years, we have passed many laws and regulations, but we still have a lot of work to do in protecting the environment and consumers. With this law, we are taking a step forward in ensuring water health and thus improving our health and improving our environment. By applying European standards of consumer protection, we allow Croatian consumers to enjoy equal rights and European consumers, which in this case means better information and greater levels of safety in the quality, health and health of water. From the fact that all life forms and all human activities are related to water and its regularity arises and the importance of documents that regulate this relationship, then, of course, this law that we at the HNS Club consider extremely important for our citizens and for our health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38660	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38661	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, we've heard a lot about water today, but surely water for human consumption is worth a special place, although we've marked the International Water Day on February 22nd, what counterpart König said, we've heard a lot of information about water for human consumption, but we've also heard some truths of great disproportionateity and illogicality about the distribution or availability of water, so here's that information that almost a quarter of the world's population doesn't have access to health care or are unable to use such water. And also from those ratios that with the largest countries with the highest standard of 300 liters a day use per person to those who don't have the option, we're the same in this bottom part away from these high standards. Of course, water must satisfy those parameters that my colleague Grbin spoke of, and I was taught at a time when I was little that water must be colorless, tasteless, and smellless. And that was one way that these were given instructions under these circumstances. Today are different times, and today this is where the quality of the legal framework must come from. And in that part, we have to say that this is covered by this 2007 Food Act, including by the Regulation that was supplemented by the 2008 Water Health Regulation. The provisions of Directive 83/98 have also been transposed into that law. Of course, now comes this law, which will in any case strengthen and improve this important area and thus regulate the health regularity of water for human consumption, the competent law enforcement body, the obligations of legal persons carrying out water supply to human consumption in the Republic of Croatia, methods of handling, reporting, monitoring and therefore other official controls. What are the waters to which the provisions of this law apply? Therefore, these are all water, regardless of their origin in natural origin or after processing, if used as water for human consumption or in food business, items which come into contact with food and articles of general use that are not. Therefore, the application of these provisions on the legislative proposal excludes water intended for medical purposes, natural mineral water, natural spring water or table water which is governed by specific regulations except in the part where those regulations are called upon to the provisions of this law. So everything is said and what may be the main characteristics of which attention is still needed. Therefore, the legislative proposal prescribes the adoption of rules governing the parameters for the verification of the conformity of water for human consumption, as well as sanitary technical, hygiene and other conditions which must be met by water supply facilities. The obligation of legal persons carrying out a public supply activity with a particular emphasis on the regulation of measures to be taken by those legal persons in the event of a derogation from the prescribed parameters shall also be established. A special place, so we've heard from the predecessors there's a Public Health Service, there's been boredom, and in that part maybe we shouldn't speak specifically. But of course the Ministry of Health's obligation to report therefore in the event of crisis situations on its site and through means of communication and mainly with some emphasis on the risky population. So this is all the quality and good that this important area will in some way strengthen and strengthen and in this sense the HDZ Club has no objections and will support. But I may have to say a few words here when I talked about those illogical distributions of water for human consumption in the world, but also on some of our characteristics, so maybe I should turn around in this place and say the same few words about what my colleague König was talking about. So that 84, 85% is connected to public water supply while 5.5% of the population is therefore to local water supply. And in that part, we also see the differences mentioned that the County of Primorje-goranska is covered almost 100% while Bjelovarska is here 48%. And now in these circumstances, when the changes to the budget are made a few days ago when the funds are reduced at the position of the Croatian Waters by 450 million we express our concern that these areas will not be able to obtain water supply so quickly and quality. That's the part we're bound to warn about. It is also good to say that about 90% of the water supply in Croatia is supplied from the supply of groundwater. The remaining sources around 10% of drinking water are accumulations, surface water and the like. The refurbished groundwater supply connects to two areas, so the karst carbonate waterbender and the alluvial area. And otherwise, this National Water Supply Enlargement Project is scheduled to join around 94% of the population by 2015, but this does not give me any hope that, in these circumstances and with this distribution, this could happen. Second, as regards the health of water from water supply systems, we also have great differences. So it's different. The minimum proportion of health invalid samples in these analyses is about 0.5% in Virovitica-Podravska and Koprivnica-križevci County, with a maximum of 50% to 60% for Krapina-Zagorska. And the biggest causes of health failure in Croatia are microbiological indicators, the total number of bacteria... , and in some areas chemical, heavy metal manganese, iron, arsenic and nitrates, ammonia, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that part, I want to mention our very rural areas, the rural areas that many are not covered by water supply precisely because of these nitrates that have very harmful consequences, and this requires the need to build a water supply network and therefore supply quality water. Another problem we have to say, perhaps here is a place for it, and the formation of these service areas. We know there are about 160 distributors in Croatia, as far as I know, drinking water. Now with this proposed forming these service areas, it's kind of these holding companies, sort of holding up. If it is to count according to the example of the Zagreb Holding then it does not give us the right to optimism, it does not give us because we are afraid again in rural areas, we are afraid as these are all calming down, etc. Notwithstanding the possibility and availability and European funds, etc. I fear that under these circumstances, rural areas will again be cut off and will not be covered in quality with a water network and, of course, will not be able to consume any additional quantities of quality water. But all in all regardless of these, these warnings that I am obliged to say and in order to naturally evenly develop our homeland, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38662	Thank you. And on behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38663	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, of course the HDSSB club will support this legal proposal on water for human consumption. It is also true that in Croatia the availability of drinking water is not equal, it is also true that this radical division of Croatia in the statistical division will remain in two regions. Mr. Deputy, you're from Požega, there's Tekija, doing well his water distribution, but there are ends in your county, as well as in my neighboring Brod-Posavia and that famous underdog that's been repeated on TV a hundred times, so also in Osijek-Baranja even where, due to various circumstances, no drinking water is available to all citizens. That percentage, ranging from 100% in the Primorje-Gorski County, as said by a colleague in her speech, up to 48% in Bjelovar-Belogorje, is moving somewhere in other counties between 50 and 80% where. But it's not, actually water, water is wealth, real wealth. And they say that, and it already is, but more and more will come to reflect the needs of world water ratios, that it will be almost as expensive or as payable as oil. For example, one, the first in, by chance, I knew the late Fr. Grg Willic, who knew behind the church in Potocane near Odjak in Bosnia, had a water source from a hill of 10, 15 centimeters. He took the analysis, sent it to the Royal Institute in London, and waited for a response to the quality of the water. He didn't receive an answer, but he was visited by Sheiks from Kuwait because before him they found out about the water analysis and came, bought out the entire source and everything produced. Case two, where I'm flying on the island of Vir, there's no water. The source has an average population of 50,000 in July and August. 11,000 cottages per 4, 5 in the cottage, that's 50,000. Now, do you know where people supply water, in stores? And you know what's on the shelves? Vitinka, but not this vitin from Vitina to Herzegovina, but Vitinka from Republika Srpska, then water from French Evian, and I don't know, that I don't advertise everything and clearly to our own, in small quantities and our producers. Water, drinking water is a Croatian treasure that is untapped. Regardless of what we are discussing today about the availability of domestic, our domestic people, there is our great chance, Croatia has a great chance if it has any sense, as these sheiks came to Fr. Grga Vilić to buy out the entire stream of this source. They don't ask since it's, just go ahead. Now, according to my colleague Milinkovic, and before me these speakers, we are talking about maximum concentration of chemical, micro-biological, or in Slavonia, given agricultural production and artificial fertilisers, etc. We have increased concentration, not increased, but let me say the nitrite concentration heading towards the border, but the water is still neat and drinkable. When we hear news of a hunger strike in Guantanamo or anywhere else, and there have been such cases, we know that a gentleman has been striked for an arbitration agreement here in front of the Parliament for two months, with Slovenia, Kokic is named. So a man without food can last two months and more, two and a half, three, but without water for 10 days, 11 at most, up to 12, without drinking water. So when we talk about 25 of those in the world, 25% of people who don't have drinking water, not the well, not any other source, that means that nearly 2 billion people are thirsty, 2 billion people. That's why I'm talking about Croatia as 5 countries by drinking water reserves in Europe and the world 8, which is why I'm saying it, a great fortune. Clearly, this proposal that regulates the quality of water, along with our requests and wishes, and availability and water is therefore equally accessible in the Primorje-Gorski County as well as in Bjelovar-Biogorje, finally that after two thousand years the water line has been invented or three thousand years since Egypt or there is Greece where even today aqueducts in France are working, who always serve their purpose at Avignon, right, Mr Stier? So we still in Croatia in two third millenniums or a thousandths do not have the availability of water, healthy, drinking to all our residents and all of us 4 million and 300 thousand less every day but I guess that will change once again, it must come to Katarza when Croatia will start to breathe differently. Here are the witnesses of these days just at the time of the World Water Day, the 21st day of spring, the 22nd of March that Croatia was struck by floods, that there were also areas that had drinking water, but because of the flood, there was a change in water quality, there was less chemical, more microbiological nature, and there was an inability and a reduction in the availability of drinking water, and in such cases we have to organize ourselves. In any case, I may have been looking at this law like this and watching and drinking water both in Brussels and Strasbourg, and I noticed that there is no water for those in the waterway, the public water supply that our cities have. There's no such quality water. It is either immersed or i don't know what but what Milinkovic says is that our water has no color, taste and smell if it's conditioned and cold like not exactly a gemist, but so it's excellent and let's preserve that water because it's our wealth, as politicians say. They like to say no to Croatian care is said in another language only if it is not in Croatian. The HDSSB accepts this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38664	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38665	Final draft law on water for human consumption, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 322. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like the Honorable Deputy Minister Mariana Cesarek to take note of the amendments. Amendment number one to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38666	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38667	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'd like to make a statement about the final bill. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 101 votes, the Law on Water for Human Consumption has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38668	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the laws on noise protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 323 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. The representative does not want to explain, there is no need to explain the proposal. The committee's rapporteurs don't either. I'm opening a debate. First in line is SDP club and colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38669	Dear Madam Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy. Article 1 of the Noise Protection Act stipulates that the law lays down measures to avoid, prevent or reduce adverse effects on people's health caused by noise noise in the environment, including noise disturbances in relation to the determination of noise exposure, on the basis of the methods for assessing noise in the environment, ensuring the availability of data on noise of the environment and the production of action plans based on data used in the making of noise maps. In view of the provision cited, which constitutes a fundamental provision of the Law on the Protection of Noise by proposing amendments to and supplementing that law, and following an analysis of its application, the amendments which go in the direction of, above all, narrowing down the scope of the law in such a way as to determine that the law does not apply to the noise caused by domestic wild animals caused by the use of devices, equipment and vehicles during sport activities, which originate from facilities which carry out activities without the valid approval of the competent authority and noise resulting from the use of aircraft. Furthermore, with the aim of effective and coherent implementation of national policy in the area of noise protection, the Parliament is scheduled to adopt a national strategy and action plan for noise protection on a proposal from the Government. Provisions concerning the obligation to draw up strategic maps, noise and action plans are amended in a way that will now exist for cities of more than 250 thousand inhabitants. Provisions concerning the definition of the settlement, main roads, etc. are amended. What we are most interested in in the public interest by the SDP court in my judgment, and what we welcome on behalf of the SDP Club of Representatives is a provision which controls the use of electro-acoustic and acoustic devices outdoors in facilities registered to carry out catering activities and noise control that arises from the maintenance of public gatherings and organised entertainment, entertainment and sports events and other activities in open and closed space. Therefore, by way of effect of this law, the control of noise, for example, of cafe terraces or clubs on the streets, squares and stadiums during concerts, will no longer be carried out by the inspectorate, but will be the same in the jurisdiction of the municipal directorship, or of our municipalities and cities, who will have at their disposal all the measures that the inspectors had so far, which means that municipal redistribution will be able to prohibit the use of the source of noise until measures are taken to protect them from noise, prohibiting activities and other activities that are hampered by rest and night peace to carry out misdemeanors or to charge fines up to 3,000 kunas on the spot. Such a provision will make it possible to protect citizens more effectively because the municipal directors have far more than state inspectors and will certainly be more efficient. On the other hand, through the possibility of making decisions to exceed the level of noise to maintain city and municipality manifestations, it is possible to create one segment of the policy of attitude towards noise. In short, this law will achieve one synergy between state bodies and units of local self-government in order to ensure that the provisions of the Noise Act are respected but at the same time in units of local self-government, it is a great obligation to assess when, in which cases and under what circumstances, certain locations that must be clearly defined and, as such clear citizens, are shown where overruns are allowed, of course, with adequate control. This also means that local self-government will no longer be able to rest in the event of an excess of noise levels for the time being with an eternal alibi that was that it was not in their jurisdiction, that they can't do anything about the overrun of noise and that those whose noise bothers the inspectorate. In short, we in the SDP consider this legal proposal a good one and we will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38670	Thank you. Replica colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38671	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you're saying that this will now be in the custody of the communal directory. As read from these amendments and the addition of the Law on Protection against Noise says that communal redistribution will only be competent in cases where a representative body's decision of the units of local self-government, and we know what acts and what everything the Noise Act makes. Therefore, if it comes to overstepping the decibels, then it will continue to be carried out by the sanitary inspector, when it comes to the decisions of the representative body, which is the use of acoustic devices in the open air, then it will certainly be in the competence of the municipal directorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38672	The answer to the replica of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38673	Thank you. This provision introduces the possibility for the communal directorship to act in the cases referred to in Article 6 and Article 10(a). Of course, it's in the domain of local self-government, so it's about situations where it's determined in some places the possibility of overrun the noise level because of events, but it's also about places where it extends the time when noise levels can be exceeded and what's crucial to that, and these are decisions concerning working time of catering facilities. After eight years in local self-government, believe me, I know that the gross citizens' remarks come precisely because of these problems, because of the noise from the terrace of the cafe, because of concerts that should last up to 10 hours, which lasts up to 12, 1, 3. I don't mind, though I want these concerts to take place after that time, but I also want those who organise them to comply with the legal provisions, and this gives us an effective mechanism. In addition to the state inspectorate, municipal directors who will equip the local self-government unit with adequate devices will be able to control its implementation. No more alibis, no more stories we only have two inspectors they don't arrive at the same time in Poreč and Pula or Rijeka or Crikvenica. Now both Rijeka and Crikvenica and Poreč and Pula will be able and will have to control for themselves how life takes place in their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38674	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Marina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38675	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy. My colleagues and colleagues. The noise is every sound that can cause anxiety, discomfort and psychological tension to the person who is exposed to it. Furthermore, any sound that can cause a real physiological injury to the person exposed or physical damage to a building. The exposure to noise causes insomnia, chronic fatigue and neurosis, and worsens existing health problems and damages the nervous, cardiovascular, digestive and hormonal system. In people exposed to noises, chronic fatigue and noise caused by neurosis develop. The adverse effect of noise on the quality of life and health is undeniable and the Law on the protection of noise sets out measures to avoid, prevent or reduce adverse effects on people's health caused by noise in the environment. As a rule, EU Directives prescribe minimum standards of environmental and health protection under which Member States should not go in their national legislation. However, they do not prevent Member States from introducing or retaining more standards than is prescribed by the Directive. EU legislation in the protection against noise can be divided into those regulated by the level of noise coming from certain sources, cars, railways, etc. and one concerning the level of noise in the environment, i.e. public exposure noises. Despite the fact that EU-wide noise legislation has existed since 1970, the exposure of the population has not been reduced since then. As the traffic of motor vehicles increased, the population became increasingly exposed to noise. Legal noise standards were not set to encourage car manufacturers to reduce noise levels but merely reflect the prevailing technology of that time. The legislation on noise of railway vehicles came into force only early last decade, and then only for trains passing through two or more Member States. Some limit values for noise of certain types of railway vehicles have been established, but they are not particularly ambitious and can easily be satisfied by existing vehicles. In particular, the existing fleet of railway vehicles is problematic, namely railway vehicles usually have a long life span of about 40 years. So most of the existing railway fleet is quite old and can be very noisy. The situation could significantly improve by upgrading existing vehicles which should be properly encouraged. The law on noise protection, as I have already pointed out, lays down measures to avoid, prevent or reduce adverse effects on the health of people caused by noise in the environment. The provisions of this law do not apply to noise resulting from the removal of the consequences of natural disasters and in other exceptional circumstances that may cause major material damage, to endanger human health and life and to disrupt the human environment in greater proportions. The noise caused by the self-exposed person, the noise of everyday household activities, the noise of the car inside, the noise of living space, the noise of the workplace, the noise of military activities, sound advertising of bells or electroacoustic devices, the noise of useful objects that are culturally good. The amendments and additions to the laws we are discussing today are necessary in order to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the regulations of the European Union, in the area of noise protection and further implementation of the European Union Directive. In order to implement national noise protection policy, a legal basis is laid down for the adoption of a national strategy and action plan for noise protection and strategic noise maps. The legislative proposal complements the provisions on the supervision of the implementation of the Noise Protection Act in such a way as to carry out and monitor the implementation of the decisions of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government adopted pursuant to Article 6(2) and Article 10. It entrusts the law to the municipal directorship and that, when carrying out the surveillance in question, it is authorised to take appropriate administrative measures, to charge the fines at the scene of the offender and to propose the initiation of the infringement procedure. The question arises whether this is a good solution to oversee the implementation of the decisions of the representative bodies of the local self-government units... the communal director when we know there is a problem because of the insufficient number of utility directors in the tourist season. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The new legislative proposal proposes to amend and supplement the exemption provisions in such a way as not to apply the law to noise caused by domestic or wild animals, noise resulting from the use of devices, equipment and vehicles during sports activities and noise arising from unregistered activities, or without the approval of the competent authority of the State Administration. In Article 1(1), which refers to noise caused by domestic animals, I believe it should be added: "except in production plants or farms where the level of noise exceeds the legal level allowed. It should also be added to the entry on sports activities: "in events previously announced by competent authorities.". The law is also complemented in order to further ensure the implementation of the European Union Directive on the second part of the second round of making strategic cards of noise and action plans. And the third round of drawing up strategic maps of noise and action plans for the period 2017 to 2019. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment and addition to EU legislation obliges cities with more than 250 thousand inhabitants to draw up a strategic map of noise and action plan applicable to the cities of the Member States of the European Union. However, most EU Member States have a significantly higher population. While this provision of the new law will apply to one single city in Croatia, which is Zagreb, which has about 800,000 inhabitants. The next city behind Zagreb is Split, then Rijeka, Osijek, and all other cities fall below 100,000 inhabitants. The way of life in these cities, the amount of daily traffic, industrial noise and the number of inhabitants, and the fact that these are the four largest cities in the Republic of Croatia should nevertheless require the obligation to draw up a strategic map of noise and action plan, which was the idea of leadership in the adoption of the law in 2009. In addition, these amendments and amendments to the Law have increased fines for cities of between 200 and 500 thousand kuna, i.e. the city unless it draws up a strategic map of noise and action plan within the prescribed deadline. The same article also increased the amount of money, fines of responsible persons, debtors, the production of strategic cards of noise and the action plan of between 20 and 50 thousand kuna. Due to all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support these amendments and additions to the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38676	Thank you. Replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38677	Thank you very much. Well, distinguished MPs, counterpart Banic, I agree with you that something needs to be done, but the issue of Croatian tourism and noise that comes as a result of the action of this tourism is something that will not solve this law or attempt to divide the state in some way with local self-government or with municipal directors. Because we who live in these destinations are aware that sometimes even the police with all their powers can't solve all the possible noises that appear in these areas. It is clear that local self-government must try to say in some way to use its powers to influence life in these places, however, these coastal places are just living off that noise. And on the one hand, we have an attempt to settle it by law which we won't, and on the other hand, the desire of those caterers who pay large rents, who use public areas to earn more money. No one wants to sit in a cafe or I don't know what form of a catering facility without any music, no noise, no additional contents especially in the night. It's this simple here now we're going to make it legal to limit it, and then it's going to work out, I'm just saying one bad attempt to share the responsibility of the state because even sanitary inspectors can't challenge the possible atheists that all these machines have. I can't say they're not like that, but when a sanitary inspector from such objects noise is always equal or even stronger. So, I don't think, no matter what good wishes we make for noise or noise, we're not gonna solve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38678	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38679	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. Well, first of all, the HDSSB Club will support these amendments and additions to the Noise Protection Act. I answered with one particular intention to say a few words about how the law could really be a dead letter on paper. We accept this law because it is our European obligation, because the law is important for the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But here's a particular case, a few days ago, we discussed this particular Act, we had on the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of Citizens petitions living in Josip Ban Jelačić Square in Zagreb, Zagreb Ilica, Jurisic Street, and it was about 200-th or 250 signatures of our citizens where it just happened next. Health ministry representatives transferred part of responsibility to representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Interior transferred responsibility to the City Office of Zagreb. So then the applicants of the petition are citizens, persons to whom this Law should apply, people living in larger cities, smaller ones, it doesn't matter, noise is everywhere, here in Zagreb, in the square of Ban Jelačić, it's more. They simply didn't get any information or anyone received them in the City Office of Zagreb and we discussed it for a good hour, an hour and a half. In the end, we came to the conclusion that there are mutual correspondence between competent ministries, competent offices, competent institutions, mostly nothing is solved. So here I am also calling for citizens who have problems with this, so we had a case where 40 decibels were lawfully allowed, and the noise was 250, and some petitioners were shot by walls because the old buildings, so the historical core, broke the walls of noise from where the constructions of the apartments of those citizens turned to their notion that no one had done anything at all, so there were two interests. There is a public interest in maintaining events of cultural, artistic concerts and the like and the private interest, the interest of our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is simple, therefore, that no one opposes that events and cultural events are being held in the markets, but we are certainly against the fact that citizens suffer damage because of this. This damage will not be compensated by anyone, and also when they wanted to, therefore, come to the conclusion that who is competent to measure the allowed decibels had to pay the experts, private experts who measured it that it was not in accordance with the law, to pay it 1200, 1500 kuna that ultimately with these certificates and these indications there was nothing they could do. So here is an appeal that our laws that the Croatian Parliament should be in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not a dead letter on paper, laws that we will discuss only in order to meet European obligations but should do the following really raise the issue of making strategic cards of noise, bring action plans, and implement plans, but above all also help citizens who find themselves in a situation of damage to such problems, a damage that, unfortunately, no one will ever compensate for. One committee member and mayor also pointed out this problem of maintaining manifestations in markets and the problem of people living in this environment, which simply no one can help anything, and it is somewhat absurd that the competent ministries, including the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Interior, are transferring the ball to one another, and to the conclusion, to the solution and to the protection of citizens who have problems under this law no one has done anything. First of all, the question is why laws, why European directives, why strategic plans, strategic maps, action plans if no one really does good to our citizens. Well, we support this bill by fulfilling our European obligation, but we also appeal to the Ministry of Health and to the competent ministries, especially city offices in the major cities to which this law applies. in this case it is the city of Zagreb and the city administration to respect, so the rights of our citizens guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38680	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38681	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Noise Protection Act. Of the colleagues and colleagues who spoke on behalf of the clubs, it is obvious that this legislative proposal will pass and that all clubs will support it, of course, by reason of its urgent procedure in order to comply with the directive and in addition to the signed declaration that it is in line with EU rules. The most important reason why I appear and have studied this issue is because I was intrigued by the provision of amendments and additions to this law which makes it clear that the provisions of this law do not apply to the noise of the aircraft. Since I am in the area of the town of Velika Gorica, which is very close to Zagreb Airport, it has invited me to look at, among other things, the Air Transport Act and to see how the issue of noise was resolved and the more I dived into the different problem that was being addressed, the more the question and the dilemma was being asked to me, and I would really like to see the promoter, at least in a certain way, that dilemma shifts away from me. Namely, as from all and from the Directive and from all the data that I have come to and who have and in this explanation, it is clear that by 18 July 2013 at the latest, it is necessary to deliver to the Ministry of Health action plans and identified priorities which can be identified by overcoming any relevant limit value or through other criteria for populated areas and for the main roads as well as railway lines. The following set of data shall be submitted to the European Commission during January 2014. Currently, the situation is based on the data that I have so that there is a chance that the concession company Zagreb-Macelj will make an action plan by 18.7.2013, while the city of Rijeka has started updating the strategic map of noise and making an action plan with a desire to create a draft action plan by 18.7.2013. The city of Osijek plans to end the strategic noise map for late August, and the action plan cannot be completed before mid-2014. The city of Zagreb began making a strategic noise map last week with a nine-month deadline and was expected to end production sometime in January 2014. The city of Split held a tender for making a strategic noise map during March 2013, but no bidder was selected because no offers were received. It is evident from the above that according to the current trend, there is a chance that the cities of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek as future centres of populated areas are building strategic noise maps and that during the development of action plans, the area is expanded in accordance with the requirements of the directive and that in some way a soft transition is made. From all the data we have seen, the following activities must be carried out by January 2014 when the Republic of Croatia has to send final data on the results of the strategic noise maps for all agglomerations, main roads and rail lines for the 2011 evaluation year, the public debate on the results of the strategic noise map for all agglomerations, main roads and railway lines, and the scenarios of action plans against noise protection for all agglomerations, main roads and railways, etc. The study of previous noise protection documents has always stated that there is no systematic management of noise data in the Republic of Croatia. What concerns me, and what I will further elaborate through the changes to these articles, is that I find it very illogical that the Ministry of Health is completely ignoring the adverse impact of noise on human health because a good part of the source of noise is being placed outside the provisions of the law and systematic measures are being thrown out for 2/3 of the population of the Republic of Croatia. If we make a commitment to cities of more than 250,000 inhabitants, then it is 1/3 of the population of the Republic of Croatia. What about the others? In particular, if we look at this in the context that all European Union member states had to make strategic noises for agglomerations with over 100,000 inhabitants by 31.12.2012. We change Article 7 in a way that is for more than 250,000 inhabitants, while at the same time saying that the area is inhabited and that is part of the territory of the unit of local and regional self-government with more than 100,000 inhabitants. So on the one hand, we commit cities that have more than 250,000 inhabitants, which is the city of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, to make strategic maps of noise and action plans, and on the other hand we define what is a populated area. Which is why we are not guided by the agglomeration area because I think it would be very logical, let's say if we have the whole area of Rijeka and we go towards Opatija, Matija, Kastav, Rijeka, Viskova, Čavle from Kostrena, it's all a densely populated area, and it's an obligation to make strategic noise maps just for Rijeka. What about the rest of the residents of that populated area? Or, say, Split area, the town of Split has an obligation to make a strategic noise map, and the airport is in Kašteli, and starting from Trogir to Split there is practically no small area in which it is not inhabited, and the same applies to Zagreb County where I belong, so I think the whole area of Samobor, Zapresic, Zagreb, Velika Gorica, Dugi sela is really a populated area. And I'm going to end up with that part that actually asked me to study this whole area, which is to throw the plane noise out of the Noise Protection Act. As a result, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the EEA Agreement’), which constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, nor does it constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, nor does it constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I believe that it is particularly important to stress that in the area of noise no regulation, therefore it is not only about us, nor in any regulation of the European Union mentions the permitted noise levels from certain sources of noise as regards airports and is always left to national legislation. I prefer to think that if it is not already covered by the Air Transport Act that it could not have happened that this part of noise creation would not remain in the domain of the Ministry of Health, because the paradox in the Air Transport Act is that the provision on the protection against noise of the Air Transport Act applies to airports with over 50,000 operations and there are no such operations in Croatia. So what the Air Transport Act provides for such situations in the Republic of Croatia, and the Ministry of Health believes that even the production of that noise should not be in the domain of the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38682	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38683	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Noise Protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 323. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 102 votes to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Noise in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38684	We move to - Proposal for a decision to declare "National Day of the Emergency Medical Service" is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply when making a decision. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. The applicant’s representative assesses that there is no specific need to explain the proposal. The committee's reporters want a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38685	Proposal for a decision to declare the national emergency medical day. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 103 votes for a decision to declare the National Emergency Medical Service Day in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38686	And now we will bring together the debate on points 11 and 12 of the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission and the Joint Governing Body based in Hungary on the integration of funds from the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the Transnational Co-operation Programme Southeast Europe for assistance from the European Regional Development Fund as part of the European Territorial Cooperation objective, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 349; - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission and the Joint Governing Body based in France on the integration of funds from the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the Mediterranean Transnational Cooperation Programme for assistance from the European Regional Development Fund within the objective of European territorial cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 350; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would you like to explain on behalf of the Proposer? Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivo Davor Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38687	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister. Here's a very short one. The HDZ Club will support this agreement, confirming this agreement. The financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission and the managing authority is one based in Hungary for South East Europe, the other in France for the Mediterranean Cooperation Programme, of course, needs to be ratified for the application of this programme, i.e. for the integration of IPA funds, so from pre-accession funds with the European Regional Development Fund of course. Therefore, the agreement is standard content, typical and there are indeed no objections or specific elements that should be highlighted in this debate. And that's why, of course, the HDZ Club will support it. However, regardless of the fact here, this may be the last item of the agenda, or even the last, may still be worth mentioning and stressing two facts. One is the conclusion that, by confirming this agreement, we also confirm these two dimensions of cooperation in Southeast Europe, cooperation in the Mediterranean, which are extremely important to us in the foreign political positioning of the Republic of Croatia, in positioning as a full member of the EU as of 1 July. In this regard, we may also not only stress this co-operation in Southeast Europe in the sense in which this agreement is stressed, so not only to the countries of the former Yugoslavia but also to a wider area that includes cooperation and territorial co-operation that goes from Austria to Ukraine. Of course, these are countries that are involved in this area not only in Southeast Europe, but in a bridge in Central and Southeast Europe, and where Croatia may be more active in defining its role, especially after joining the EU on July 1st. Also, as far as this second Mediterranean cooperation programme is concerned, we see, of course, how an old member of France has used that position to run this programme as Hungary has also used this programme for Southeast Europe as a full member to be its headquarters in Hungary. These are two components, two elements that I think are important also when confirming these agreements, as a clear indication of what we do after July 1st and how to position and protect our interests, through cooperation projects and with countries in the neighbouring region and in the Mediterranean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38688	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on a proposal for both laws. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38689	Final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission and the managing body based in Hungary on the integration of funds from pre-accession assistance instruments under the Transnational Co-operation Programme Southeast Europe to assist the European Regional Development Fund as part of the European territorial cooperation objective, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 349. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission and the managing body based in Hungary on the integration of pre-accession aid instruments under the Transnational Co-operation Programme of South-Eastern Europe to assist the European Regional Development Fund as part of the European Territorial Cooperation objective in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38690	And now we will bring together the debate on points 11 and 12 of the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission and the Joint Governing Body based in Hungary on the integration of funds from the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the Transnational Co-operation Programme Southeast Europe for assistance from the European Regional Development Fund as part of the European Territorial Cooperation objective, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 349; - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission and the Joint Governing Body based in France on the integration of funds from the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the Mediterranean Transnational Cooperation Programme for assistance from the European Regional Development Fund within the objective of European territorial cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 350; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would you like to explain on behalf of the Proposer? Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivo Davor Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38691	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister. Here's a very short one. The HDZ Club will support this agreement, confirming this agreement. The financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission and the managing authority is one based in Hungary for South East Europe, the other in France for the Mediterranean Cooperation Programme, of course, needs to be ratified for the application of this programme, i.e. for the integration of IPA funds, so from pre-accession funds with the European Regional Development Fund of course. Therefore, the agreement is standard content, typical and there are indeed no objections or specific elements that should be highlighted in this debate. And that's why, of course, the HDZ Club will support it. However, regardless of the fact here, this may be the last item of the agenda, or even the last, may still be worth mentioning and stressing two facts. One is the conclusion that, by confirming this agreement, we also confirm these two dimensions of cooperation in Southeast Europe, cooperation in the Mediterranean, which are extremely important to us in the foreign political positioning of the Republic of Croatia, in positioning as a full member of the EU as of 1 July. In this regard, we may also not only stress this co-operation in Southeast Europe in the sense in which this agreement is stressed, so not only to the countries of the former Yugoslavia but also to a wider area that includes cooperation and territorial co-operation that goes from Austria to Ukraine. Of course, these are countries that are involved in this area not only in Southeast Europe, but in a bridge in Central and Southeast Europe, and where Croatia may be more active in defining its role, especially after joining the EU on July 1st. Also, as far as this second Mediterranean cooperation programme is concerned, we see, of course, how an old member of France has used that position to run this programme as Hungary has also used this programme for Southeast Europe as a full member to be its headquarters in Hungary. These are two components, two elements that I think are important also when confirming these agreements, as a clear indication of what we do after July 1st and how to position and protect our interests, through cooperation projects and with countries in the neighbouring region and in the Mediterranean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38692	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on a proposal for both laws. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38693	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission and the Joint Governing Body based in France on the integration of funds from the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the International Cooperation Programme of the Mediterranean for the European Regional Development Fund within the objective of European territorial cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 350 The debate on the text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I find it unanimous with 104 votes to pass the P.Z. Act. No. 350.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38694	I move to - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) No. 211/2011. European Parliament and Council of 16 February 2011 on citizens' initiative, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 337; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Introduction will explain the draft law by the Minister of Administration, Mr Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38695	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. At EU level in February 2011, the Civil Initiative Regulation was adopted to regulate the form of public participation in the design of European public policies, so-called European public policies. A European citizens' initiative that allows one million citizens of a significant number of EU Member States to directly ask the European Commission to propose a relevant legislative initiative for them in the field of EU competence. As the scope of the European Civil Initiative at EU level is governed by the regulation as a secondary source of law which will be directly and fully applicable in the Republic of Croatia, this legislative proposal allows for the implementation of that Regulation. The relevant Regulation provides that, prior to the start of the collection of support declarations, the organisers shall require the competent authority of the relevant Member State to confirm that the online collection system used for the collection of support declarations is in accordance with Article 6(4) of the Regulation and that the competent authority, when the online collection system is in accordance with that provision, shall issue a certificate for that purpose. The subject-matter of the Regulation lays down that the organisers submit a declaration of support in paper or electronic form to the relevant competent authorities in a Member State for verification and certification and that the competent authorities issue a certificate in accordance with the model set out in proposal 6 of the Regulation confirming the number of valid declarations of support for the Member State concerned. In accordance with the regulations, each Member State shall designate one competent authority responsible for coordinating the verification process of the supporting and issuing of a certificate confirming the number of valid declarations in support of the Member State concerned. The Regulation also provides for Member States to ensure that organisers are properly punished for breach of this Regulation, in particular because of false statements by the organisers and the unauthorised use of data that penalties should be effective, proportionate and conversional. The legislative proposal shall designate the Ministry of Administration as the competent authority for the issue of confirmation that the online collection system used for the collection of support declarations is in accordance with the Regulation and that the confirmation of the issue is based on the prior verification of the compliance of the Internet collection system of support declarations referred to in Article 6(4). EU Regulations 211/2011. and Regulation 1179/2011. implemented by the national authority responsible for the security of information systems. The legislative proposal also identifies the Ministry of Administration as the competent authority for the coordination of the process of verification of the support declaration and the issue of a certificate confirming the number of valid declarations of support for the Republic of Croatia. The Regulation also lays down that, in the processing of personal data pursuant to this Regulation, the organisers of the citizens' initiative and the competent authorities of the Member States shall act in accordance with Directive 95/46. This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As a result of that Directive, the Data Protection Act has been adopted in the Republic of Croatia, whose supervision is carried out by the Personal Data Protection Agency. This legislative proposal also provides that supervision of the implementation of the personal data protection regulation as a competent authority shall be carried out by the Personal Data Protection Agency. As regards Article 14 of the Regulation, which provides for Member States to ensure that the organisers are adequately punished for the infringement of this Regulation, in particular because of false statements by the organiser and the unauthorised use of the data, the proposal for this law does not provide for specific infringement provisions, since for the submission of untrue, or falsified declarations of support by a natural person, the organiser is subject to penalties for the criminal offence of counterfeiting the document referred to in Article 278. The Penal Code, while, in relation to the unauthorised use of data, the infringement provision laid down by the Data Protection Act, which, in accordance with the regulations, has been adopted as a national provision on the basis of the aforementioned Directive 95/46. The EC shall fully apply to the processing of personal data in the application of the Regulation. These are the basics of the questions that are proposed to do with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38696	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38697	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Associates. Before us is the proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 211/2011. the year of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on a citizens' initiative with a final draft law. I managed to find the regulation only in English, and I hope that by the time Croatia enters the EU it will also be translated into Croatian. ... Is there? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't find it, I just found the whole regulation, just in English, but ever, never mind. I think the regulation itself is much more interesting than what would seem to be reading this bill's proposal. Otherwise you'd say hello for the first time probably in the assembly we have more women than men, congratulating colleagues. Namely, the forms and methods of personal participation of Croatian citizens with electoral rights in the exercise of state authority, local, regional, regional self-government are governed by the Law on referendums and other forms of personal participation and forms of state government of local, regional or regional self-government. I will now skip all of what the minister has been saying to shorten all of us together this last item of the agenda, but I would certainly like to say that, in this legislative proposal among other things, it defines the Ministry of Administration as the competent authority for the coordination of the process of verifying the statement of support and issuing a certificate confirming the number of valid statements of support for the Republic of Croatia. The bottom line is that what they do not write in this law, namely at least a million adult citizens, from at least one quarter of the EU member states under the Lisbon Treaty, has the right to ask the European Commission to propose a law. And our citizens might as well know that. If Croatians want Croatia to be among the countries whose citizens support their initiative, Croatian citizens must fill in this legislation a prescribed form, and in order to respect their support they must be in sufficient numbers. The minimum number of citizens, supporters, is different for each country, and it is obtained by multiplying the number of euros from each country by 750, in this case Croatia, which will be represented by 12 MPs in the European Parliament, which means that a single proposal under the European Citizens' Initiative will have to support at least 9,000 voters from Croatia if the proposer wants Croatia to be classified among the countries whose citizens support their initiative. The support is clear, the minister has already said so, can also be given via the internet, according to certain regulations and provisions. And now that political part of me, the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, is in principle and strongly favouring the increasing participation of citizens in democratic processes and public policies. In the last 20 years, there has been a disturbance in the balance between politics and the economy in all three important areas. In an analysis of social action and in the construction of institutions and consequently led to the marginalisation of society, and the inability to fully understand what is happening with society as well. The predominance of economic logic has been particularly devastating for new liberal democracies that are just being built by civil society. Because of the value that this imbalance has led to the disappearance of social activation towards general good and values such as solidarity, equality, justice, protection of minorities and particularly democracy. The mobilization of society has become possible only by enmity and selfishness. The domination of the economy in particular in the new democracies has resulted in corrupt politics, the appearance of the mafia and the most primitive political population. The rebellion and demonstration in most states of Western democracy against banks, large capital, neoliberal policies are de facto a requirement to return politics. These protests are most often without visible leaders and without concrete requirements whose fulfillment could be verified but their message is a request for parcipatoryness by concluding society in deciding its own destiny at different levels. This is a requirement for the return of positive values based on a democratic political culture of solidarity, universal human rights, freedom, civil equality, tolerance and justice as a practical category in the functioning of state institutions, so the HNS considers that one of the priorities in the coming period is the affirmation of these values, strengthening them, founded political cultures, participations in society. As a basis for strengthening participatory culture, there are two processes of special importance. The necessity of decommissioning and building the institutions of the state, involving citizens in topics that directly mobilise and interest them. There are other mechanisms for the importance of political participation. It is certainly the creation of a competent critical public, the role of the media, educational institutions and political parties. In order for a participatory culture to really develop, citizens must remember in the decision-making process and the impact of the decisions they have taken part must be simply tangible to them and, therefore, it is particularly important that citizens take part in the decision-making process at local level. It is important to develop the incentives of alternative types of democracy. Local democracy, alternative forms of decision in the life of its own community, especially in the smallest units of local self-government, and I think there is a special story of democracy in the workplace. Employees must participate in decisions dictated by everyday life and considered competent. The step towards openness to its own must be the result of the adaptation of expert and political elites. HNS believes that the processes are a daily permanent participation of citizens in the development of society and the state necessary and that they should not be reduced to just going to elections every four years. In their vote, citizens decide in what direction they want the state to develop in the next period but citizens have the right but also the obligation to participate actively in political processes and after the elections and whether they voted in favour of the position or opposition because ultimately all positive and negative decisions, solutions, projects are carried out by these citizens. This is the most obvious evidence that the country is theirs. If the state is theirs, it would be good for that state to be permanently concerned about what does not mean public democracy, anarchy. Representative democracy is irreplaceable. Participation of the open state means a constant and greater impact on the management of social processes and a firm control of the spending of public money. Unfortunately, the regulation will, today, propose no regulation, but the law on that regulation is a European regulation and concerns initiatives for the European Commission and the European Parliament. Croatian citizens can achieve such an initiative directly only through the referendums. In this mandate, the HNS will propose some of the regulations or such, or the same to allow citizens of the Republic of Croatia under similar circumstances to be able to initiative and actively participate in changes, amendments to the law and prescribed by all levels. The HNS Liberal Democrats will accept the draft law implementing the EU regulation No. 211/2011 of the European Parliament and the Council of 16 February 2011 in a citizens' initiative that entered into force on 1 April this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38698	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And now let's just make a deal for tomorrow's work. We'll start at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code and tomorrow we'll work on the agenda with point 20. Thank you very much. Goodbye! Session interrupted at 1907 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38699	Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 211/2011. European Parliament and Council of 16 February 2011 on citizens' initiative, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 337 The debate on the text of the final draft law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I would like to ask the Honorable Minister of Arsen Bauk to show himself on Amendment No. Article 1
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38700	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38701	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38702	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-23-0.u38703	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 104 votes for the adopted Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. 211/2011. The European Parliament and the Council of 16 February 2011 on the citizens' initiative.
