ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32399	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning and continue to discuss - Report on the situation in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2008 to 2012; Reports submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 47. The law on spatial planning and construction. You've received the material into the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32400	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. We have a report on the state of the space for the period 2008. - 2012. We also have a presentation that's been made, so maybe during my presentation that I'm going to be able to start with technique and work out, and we're going to have a chance to see some charts that should be supportive of what I'm going to expose and say. So, as you can see in the material, we call this report the State of Space Report in 2008-2012. It is also important to say the following, which was adopted in 94 years by the Law on Spatial Planning, the basis of the Law on Spatial Planning was the adoption of a programme and a strategy for the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia and the obligation was to make the same report on the state of the room every 4 years and to deliver it at the debate to the Croatian Assembly. In 97, the Croatian Parliament adopted a strategy for the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. A programme of spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in 99. One and the other documents shall be in force and in application. In 2003, a report was made in the ministry on the situation in space, but it was never referred to the government or to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. So this report on the situation in the area that is before you and which is relatively and large and material, is the first report on the situation in which this Parliament has the opportunity to decide from the time we have the state. This is why the material is relatively large and it is 300 pages, e great, thank you here we have managed to establish a technique at the right time. So, it's a relatively large material because it's not only been able to look at these 4 years, but it's looked at the whole, whole period since we have a strategy and a program of spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia. So, here I'm gonna ask so let's go if we can, here's the first slide great. As you have had the opportunity to see in all matter, we have referred here to all available strategies, to all available documents. We were also waiting to finally be finished and officially even though we had work material, but we didn't have everything that was necessary to officially be. So we were also waiting for the census that we received in early December 2012 so that here in one place through the maps, through the tables, you also have an analysis of all of what we found through the 2011 census. So, I'm going to go through those basics and the essentials that the report looks at, which are analysed. So, Croatia is territorially divided and this is this first map with which we start, on 20 counties and the City of Zagreb we have 556 municipalities and cities. But when we talk about space, using space then what is important to us and significant that Croatia has 6,755 settlements at this time. So we're dealing in space with that number of settlements. You can follow the slide and we'll do it in a row. So we have a series of charts and a series of shows that actually talk, we're not about the demographic picture of Croatia, we're talking about both economic and socio-demographic images, so we can immediately get to the next map that goes in line. Please nice next slide. So here we have 2 pictures that always, the picture says, we all like to use, more than a thousand words. On the charts, you unfortunately do not have them in color, but the result of this report after the Croatian Parliament passes, we have already prepared to print one book and then we will deliver that book to all of you because it will certainly be able to use you otherwise for your political and any other action, because there are a number of data that you will be able to use in the environments in which it is. These two charts are good-looking because your lice on your charts are darker colors where there's a more favourable situation regardless of whether the population density is and everything else. And the brighter colors are where we're less comfortable with the situation. So, what is important to say and important to know is this, according to the population list Croatia has with the year 2011 4 284 889 inhabitants, this means in the last 10 years the decline of the population of 152 571 people. When we talk in density, so in spatial planning, in using space we always base ourselves on density because it's the starting point, when we talk about density, the density of population is 75.71 people per square mile. Compared to the EU, therefore, you know that we have different countries, different densitys, the northern Scandinavia is rarely displaced, the northern part of Europe is one part that is very densely populated, but the average density in the EU is 115 inhabitants per square mile. In other words, Croatia has about a third less density than the average density in the EU, which does not have to be flawed, which can also be a comparative advantage compared to the use of space, compared to the spread and everything else, but certainly one data that should be handled and which should be used in the future as an advantage, not as a flaw. The following cartogram therefore speaks of our economic development, social economic development and economic structure, so that Croatia is divided into 4 groups according to the development index. So when we talk about the development index, then you see these sufficiently visible regardless of the situation that this is the brightest, these are the weakest developed areas of the Republic where the development index is below 75% of the average. The other group is a little darker. There is a development index between 75 and 100%, the third group is a development index between 100 and 125 and there is Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Zagreb County. And the fourth group is where the development index is above 125% of the RH average. Here we have the city of Zagreb, Istria County and the Primorje-Gorski County. I'd like to point out one more time. This is just what we analyzed the data we got, the data that we got from other strategies, from other analyses, and we just pooled it in one place, and we showed it through the charts, and I think absolutely these charts are shown for the first time in this way. You have the opportunity to really see them, and you will be able to deal with them in the work in which it will be necessary. I'm asking you nicely next. This cartogram I especially like to warn about, because, you know, every time we do some kind of analysis and everything else then we have the possibility of there and certain subjectivity. This cartogram has no possibility of subjectivity or any evaluation. There is one methodology that applies in EU countries. She's called... And that means that the satellite is flying over the state, recording what it's recording, and showing it through a picture like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This video was taken in 2005 on 2006. The next video for Croatia is scheduled satellite sometime at the end of this year and at the end of this year we will have a new photo and a new video. What does this picture show? This picture shows, therefore, in 2005, 2006. That in Croatia 3.6% of our territory was built. This means physically built buildings, that forests and forest land accounted for 47% of the area, agricultural areas differed, so it was important because it was done from the aspect of the use of agricultural areas, so that analysis was somewhat more detailed and agricultural surfaces at that time in state ownership were 11.21% unprocessed and privately owned, 31.8, and in state ownership at that time there were 4,5% processed agricultural areas, water surfaces 1.6. So it's something that red is marked, so you see that the city of Zagreb is being intensely seen and these are all much smaller dots in space but it is a handsome cartogram for the simple reason and in the book when it is printed, of course everything will be better and much better seen from this slide is quite enough. I'm asking you nicely next. Now we get to one slide and one display. That's what we're like as spatial planners from which we start, what we're discussing and what we're dealing with. So at this time in Croatia planned building areas for development we have 6.74% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is planned for construction areas to develop settlements, isolated parts of the settlement. According to spatial data 4,68% of the building area was built. When it flows into the number of inhabitants that can live in this area, we are dealing with different density, you know that of course it is not the same density in the city of Zagreb, it is not the same density in Split, let alone in one Delnice, but when one employed population density is created then this data suggests that we have a building area for about 6 and a half million inhabitants. I'd say it's a bigger number because when density is a little denser then it's a little bit more number, but one used figure speaks of 6 and a half million inhabitants and construction areas that we have. I'm asking you nicely next. This slide, I'd just like to say one more thing if I didn't forget. What is quite a debate in the media and quite a lot of debate is continued when we talk about areas intended for the development of the economy. In Croatia, 100 thousand hectares of land are intended for economic zones in spatial plans. These economic zones can therefore be intended for clean industry, for economic activity, can be for shopping centres, but there are also spaces intended for the development of tourism and space intended for sport and recreation with construction, so 100 thousand hectares of land at this time in Croatia is intended for economic activity. Unfortunately, data that say relatively few of the land's mains have not been used and economic activity has not been developed. One set of charts is about infrastructure. Namely, every country and ours, every county, every municipality and city must continuously develop its infrastructure because infrastructure is a prerequisite for each other's development. And you can plan the perfect economic zone. This perfect economic zone can be planned. However, if there is no adequate communal equipment, if there is no planned adequate municipal infrastructure, it will yawn empty not for the past 15 years but for the next 20 years. This is where the state-level infrastructure is analysed. One cartogram speaks of traffic corridors and actually speaks of a good situation when it comes to highways. I'll beg you next slide, so this is a slide that talks about the traffic connection of the Republic of Croatia. When you put our miles of highways in the population, then we always get complaints from the EU that an extremely developed road network is at the expense of something else. However, I have this rather unfortunate territory, we have a rather awkward position of the Republic of Croatia and of course we must develop a much longer transport network than it would need if the shape of Croatia was neighbouring Slovenia, it would be incomparably easier. This report on the situation in space speaks of a good situation when it comes to road infrastructure, it speaks of a bad situation when it comes to rail infrastructure but emphasis and bad situation is when it comes to the power grid. When we talk about the power grid, we primarily talk about distribution and transmission systems. You know well through our history that the main thermal power plants and hydropower plants were in the area of Bosnia, that we directed our distribution system and the transmission system to the area of Bosnia in the war that we still have, that electricity system is absolutely destroyed and we need to develop a new electricity system. When we talk about the new power system, we talk about the transmission system, and in the next 10 years, we need to intensify the transmission power system, the old power system, because there are terrible losses and of course the emphasis must be on something that we all know well all the time, which is that 20% of the energy needs to be from renewable energy sources. What is a hindrance to the spatial plans in the county to do a little and to recommend it is that the spatial plans for continental Croatia, the spatial plans of the county there I a little appeal to the parliamentary representatives who are from that area, very gently not to say in any way refer to renewable energy sources which is absolutely wrong. Renewable energy sources when we talk about wind use or when we talk about the use of solar energy what we think is good Adriatic Croatia is there blowing a strong wind and having a lot of sun is wrong. For renewable sources, the continuous wind should be. The wind power plants when they smoke too much must be shut down because they can't work at all. photovoltaic cells if the cell temperature is too high, it must also be switched off. For a photovoltaic cell, the number of days not cloudy but even the number of light-days is important, and not the sun is strong. There is therefore certainly a great future for continental Croatia that should recognise its ability and develop these kinds of energy. I'm asking you nicely for the next slides. Now they're taking a series of charts where the power system is shown, traffic corridors, we're talking about this slide that's talking about oil and gas, the way it's covered, nicely please the next one, which is important, significant for what reason. One part of this report, of course, and a very important part, we're talking about protected and special values of space. This data Croatia should use as its advantage. So we re-analyzed all the data in one place when I talk about the protection of Croatia from the aspect of the Nature Protection Act. What is important to know is this, 8.36% of the territory or space of the Republic of Croatia is protected in the highest category from nature protection. This means national parks, nature parks, and just to compare it to those 6.5 and 6.7%, respectively, which is intended for construction. Equally, 47% of land territory is in the ecological network, 38.5% of marine territory in the ecological network, potential area of NATURA 2000.99% land, 16.58 marine territory. We have made a overlap of all types of protection, so all three types of protection, where it overlaps these layers there is absolutely impossible and any activity, and if possible then such compensation measures are such that they are invaluable, 30.43% of the total surface of the Republic of Croatia is land-based and marinely covered when you overlap those three types of protection. I'd like to ask you for the following charts. So you'll see now that they're in black and white, then it's a little awkward, but when they're in color you'll see there's maps that tell you both about NATURI 2000, so potentially also about the ecological network. I'm asking you nicely next. So we come slowly to conclusions, I apologize maybe for a little more time than usual, but since the first time has been a report in the Croatian Parliament that we've worked out a pretty big space, that we've had a pretty big period of time I'm trying to tell you really important things that we can discuss later and in the discussion maybe something and see. At this time, Croatia has all the spatial plans of the county, all 556 spatial plans of municipalities and cities have been made. We can discuss their quality, we can discuss how appropriate they are for some activities, but at this time Croatia is absolutely covered by all spatial plans. Of the county plans at this time is the development of a new spatial plan of the Primorje-Gorski County, there is a major change and addition of the Split-Dalmatia County's spatial plan, the changes in Sibenik-Knin County are targeted, changes in Dubrovnik-Neretva County are targeted, and these other counties, as far as we have knowledge, have not launched any activities. When we talk about the implementation documents of the spatial arrangement, then it is urban planning and detailed. Croatia is covered at this time with 904 or 904 urban plans of which is still plus 760 in the works. We expect that this figure to be significantly higher somewhere in the middle of this year because before the election, everyone is trying to make their plans and bring them in. When it comes to detailed plans, 1014 detailed plans were adopted, 184 in the making. We can do the next slide. The report wouldn't have been reported if we didn't have an analysis of the conduct of the inspection, so they'll see how much inspection she's been doing, the solution she's made, what she's been doing. And I'm asking nicely for the next slide and we're coming to the mark. So, the conclusion of this report are findings which have been a feature of spatial development in the last 10 years and the conclusion is to do so further. This report is a basic document which is the Ministry of Space Planning, so the Republic of Croatia, it is our Ministry, it is a basic document on which we will be working on a new strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which will not only be until 20/20 as it is done by the European Union but rather significantly further, the basis for the development of the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia, but what is the feature of the last 10 years, and what we want to define for the future will also be the subject of which we will have to agree on its regulation that for the next four years when the Croatian Parliament has a chance to see again one report we do not have a tendency to constant or fall when we talk about the use of space rather than to see certain improvements. Marks, I will just once again loudly say and mention, spatial development in the last 10 years is and this shows all the charts, relative conservation of the resources of agricultural areas. We said it relatively but certainly question how they are used, but they are preserved. We have this imbalance of transport and energy infrastructure, but through exposure I explained why this imbalance is. The problem is, so what we've got, we've got a waste problem. We've been fighting this waste for the last 10 years, but I think it's absolutely necessary to intensify. You can even, you can't even see the text here, so it doesn't matter. Then the demographic image shows actually a trend of decline. What was in the last 10 years was actually a desire to use the sea and the area around the sea. As a result, in 2004, the Law on spatial planning and construction was amended and the regulation was adopted. At the end of last year, the Croatian Parliament ratified a protocol on integrated management of the Mediterranean area. At this time, our law is absolutely talking about the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, it is absolutely in accordance with this Protocol and we will continue to try to keep it in regulation and continue to keep account of it as well. What's a feature of the last 10 years is the same thing, I call it planing words, and that's what I've said on committees, so I'm going to say two tendencies in front of this distinguished home. One tendency is to skip parts of the city, so it's happened to us that some parts of the city are, and everyone can recognize it in their midst, the other industries are gone. There have been various transformations, certain industrial plants have remained abandoned, abandoned and in their development in the demand for investment, now especially by housing investments have skipped these parts of the city and developed on the meadow. The characteristics of Zagreb, for example, when you see the construction of a residential... or an even better characteristic when Zagreb skipped Sava, developed New Zagreb, and Trnje forgot. And in the future, we should actually go back to urban transformations and activate the skipped parts of the cities. Everyone from the city from which they come will be seen and recognized very quickly which parts of his settlement or his work where he did not want to invest and transform that part into a new value but rather went to the meadow. The future of Europe and the future is our return to those skipped parts of the city. And secondly, I'm free to find out, and that can be equally recognized, our settlements, our municipalities and cities didn't develop with their community and city policies. So municipalities and cities have not built cities in the last 10 years, but they are an image of the interest of certain investors which is not bad, which is also good, the interest of investors is good, but the interest of investors must always be, in part, we must recognize their public interest that any investor is told as some countries have, at the time you build something, you must provide a part of the public interest, each of them would provide it. We, in a desire for great expansion and in a great desire for development, have actually forgotten it a little bit. This is where we need to go back and actually activate and recognize this public interest that is seen through the way of planning the development of municipalities and cities. So these would be the conclusions that I've even said gently in relation to the features of spatial development for the last 10 years. Trends that all this stuff that I said to try to stop, to use this time so that such trends don't go on and use it that what we've been through these 10 years that's happened to us, that things like this don't happen to us in the future. Finally, this report will be used for the new Strategy for the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia and will also be used to produce all documents of spatial arrangement and we will also use this report on it and we also base the change of regulation when we talk about spatial planning and construction. Once again I would just like to repeat and say, we here based ourselves on other strategies, on the data that, united them in a certain way. It's a really small amount of documentation, but you have to understand that we wanted to show as much as we have in space and how we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32401	Thank you very much, Miss. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Ivan Klarin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32402	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, we in the SDP, personally appreciate your contribution to address the situation in space, but unfortunately we must agree that in the last 10 years in the Croatian space there is chaos. Some parts of our country if we exception, so those areas that were affected by the war look like Japan after that devastating tsunami. I think we in the Republic of Croatia must draw the line as soon as possible and what will happen later. Let that line be the Law of Legalization that we brought in last year. If any government this or any other in five, ten or fifteen years, once again passed such a law means that today's space in the Republic of Croatia can be declared dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32403	Replication response, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32404	Here, if you'll excuse me right now, I'll answer that, and at one point, I've accelerated my report a little bit so that I don't spend too much of your time. But you can see that one large part of this report is about illegal construction. It is absolutely clear and an unequivocal line was withdrawn on 21 June 2011. You see, all the activities we're doing, we're working on a trail of defenses, we're even calling it a work and defence line, that we're keeping that defense line, and we're really going to keep it safe. I'm here in front of this esteemed Dom I'm taking the opportunity to say the funds that we're going to collect from legalization 50% goes to the state. We're going to make recovery plans out of these, but there's another devastation of the space that I'm now taking advantage of the opportunity to say the devastation of the space that was created by the inappropriate exploitation of mineral raw materials. So we in the room have a series of cancer wounds. One of the major cancer wounds is the exploitation of mineral raw materials, where even those who legally exploited went and left that wound cancer in space, not to mention illegal exploiters. So, we're all really aware of that, and when it comes to legalization, we're going to use our resources not to crash and not just to crash, but also to crash because we're not going to have other situations, but primarily for recovery plans that in five or ten years, we really don't do this again because it wouldn't be good. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32405	And Josip Boric, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32406	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, you've brought out all the data nicely and this is indeed a good document and for all of us MPs a lot of good data. However, before you, the minister was Mr. Vrdoljak, he is now Minister of Economy and he declares yesterday that investors in the Republic of Croatia cannot make their investments because 50% of the state area is a protected area in which they cannot be invested. The data from this document suggests that we are neither outside nor far from all other EU countries and writes here that it is only 10%. Will you warn him to tell the truth because it really isn't true or he really doesn't understand the document he probably raised his hand in the Government of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32407	The reply to the replica of Minister Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32408	Thank you very much. What you need to know is the status report in the space is in our ministry and we started working it in March last year, so Minister Vrdoljak is familiar with the report. I may be getting out of some context, but absolutely Minister Vrdoljak is familiar with the situation we have, the way he is, and I suppose there may have been some sort of context or some other problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32409	Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. It's the representatives' clubs. On behalf of the independent club representative Damir Cain who is not in the hall, so the club loses the right to debate on this point. And on behalf of the SDP club Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32410	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Madam Minister with a colleague, respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We in the SDP, therefore, support all the efforts of this ministry as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finally introduce order into our country's space. The purpose of the report is to obtain a comprehensive state of affairs in the Republic of Croatia and we must certainly commend the Ministry for the development of a professional but thorough report. Unfortunately, we must conclude that the situation in the space is at a very low level, and that the public space of our country needs to be brought into order urgently. Many factors affect the situation in space, and you have done them in very detail in this report. Today, our country is on the verge of joining the EU and we cannot and do not want to pursue utopian urbanism, but we must certainly flee from urban chaos, which is unfortunately still present in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia. The space we have in our country is God's day and we must keep it safe. The length of the seashore is over 6200 km from which 70% or 4400 km are lost on the islands. I have a total of 1246 islands, islets and rocks, and that's the coin left to us by our ancestors, so that's what we have to leave for future generations. We have no right today to destroy this treasure or to waste it uncompromisingly. The coastal area is one of the most valuable parts of Croatia's space. Surely there is a more intense demand for such space than in the continental area. According to the spatial plans of urban planning and municipalities in Croatia, the total construction area is 3811 km square and 69% of it is built. This ratio is even more drastic in the Adriatic Croatia and the ratio of planned and built or used building land is only 65%. This information does not encourage a number of facts, and the most important thing is that too little suitable building land has been put into operation. No city or municipality can go into the expansion of new construction zones until the existing building land is used as a percentage of more than 80% of the question is how to force the owners of unused building land to put them into operation and so the others do not stop for years or decades waiting for their space, their land to be refurbished and built up. However, some parts of our country have been rebuilt, especially if we are talking about top tourist destinations where in the summer months there are often conflicts between the domicile population and tourists because of the huge number of people who are therefore located in a small area. Such parts of the space in the Republic of Croatia do not therefore have a resolved, properly solved municipal infrastructure, and the chronic lack of urban planning of the arrangement is therefore also a chronic one. Urbanist arrangements, therefore, are the lowest plans of the lower order, which are quite financially difficult if they can say so for certain units of local self-government but therefore they best bring, best show what order will be in the space. Unfortunately, these urban plans when the Law on the Legalisation of illegally built objects was passed they were thrown into another plan, but regardless they were still one of the most important documents the local community must bring. Here I would highlight the problem of maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia, which is not found in a satisfactory percentage. The problem must be jointly resolved by local self-government and county units as well as by the ministry. The maximum activity must be increased to establish the maritime good limits to a greater extent, so on the Adriatic. As for the economic zones that you have also processed quite well in your report, so the economic zone extends to 11000 and 103 hectares and has a total of 344 but a comparison of the number of zones per county with the number of employees in them we come up with data that a large number of economic zones have not yet been used. Here I would therefore like to commend the efforts of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of increasing budget resources to help units of local self-government to build these economic zones, i.e. to build a communal infrastructure in them. An important segment of public space regulation is both the development of transport and rail and road and maritime. We in the SDP support the government's efforts to further strengthen this segment with significant financial investment in the transport sector in the Republic of Croatia, in the construction of the port in the Adriatic, in Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Solin, Ploča, as well as in preparations for the activities of the construction of the port in the inner waters of the Republic of Vukovar, Slavonski Brod, Luke Osijek, Luke Sisak. The specific segment of this report is also dedicated to the ports of nautical tourism. Unfortunately, we must conclude that no new port of nautical tourism has been built on the Adriatic for the last 10 years. Only this year did the ministry therefore amend the Port Concession Regulation of Nautical Tourism. In 2008, therefore, the ministry and the government brought a strategy for the development of nautical tourism in the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately it has been a dead letter on paper because since 2008 so far, no new port of nautical tourism has been built except that existing links in the existing ports of nautical tourism have been expanded. The important segment of this report is waste management in the Republic of Croatia. Looking at this report from 2008 to 2011, most of the counties did not determine the location of the county waste management centres at all. 4 counties have not set a location at all while 5 counties have several locations, but have not been set for final locations. The responsibility of local self-government units in the space protection segment is completely isolated from the implementation of certain measures, sometimes unfortunately. I have also called on the minister, and I have spoken several times in my debate that it is necessary to increase the powers of the municipal directorship. If we look at the analysis of the removed facilities in our country by municipalities and cities, it can be concluded that the illegal construction in certain units of local self-government is bigger than in others although the answer is hidden in the fact that certain units of local self-government have done their job, and some have not. And they tolerated illegal construction for one reason or another. Of course, part of the responsibility for this condition, the bad state of the space, in this period that we are bringing the report, but this report is therefore brought for a period of 10 years, so part of the responsibility here is carried out by construction inspections. Finally, I repeat that we in the SDP are very supportive of the ministry's efforts to address the situation in space and the minister's lady as seen in its activities and in the Croatian Parliament. The goal is to stop further spread of illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia, which as a metastases takes up healthy tissue takes up a healthy space. In particular, we need to take care of the uncontrolled spread of illegal construction along the coastal line which I was just saying is a beautiful resource that we have, it's a wonderful resource that we have to save for future generations. At the end of the SDP club will support the State of the Space Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32411	Thank you very much. Replica has a colleague, Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32412	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I disagree with Mr. Clarine's exposure. First of all, in his finding that urban chaos exists in the Republic of Croatia. I think it's too heavy an assessment, it's not based on any relevant indicators. And the fact is that the Republic of Croatia is covered by absolutely spatial-planned documentation that is in line with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. So, all the counties in the Republic of Croatia have brought their spatial plans, all cities and all municipalities in Croatia have come up with spatial plans to arrange the city, i.e. the municipality. Nearly 3,000 minor implementation plans have been adopted to regulate the area. And that's not how you speak, and the government itself in your own report if you've read it, it's consistent. So on page 96, it can be objectively concluded that in the Croatian Adriatic area, which you have largely talked about is the most preserved balance between natural and creative values and that it today represents an ideal spatial framework and a substance for the European Mediterranean park. So these aren't my words, this is what the report says. And I dare say that the Republic of Macedonia of all Mediterranean states, of all Mediterranean states, has best preserved that area. For us, neither Spain nor Greece nor France nor Italy can be an example. At this point in time, for various circumstances, Croatia has preserved the Mediterranean, Adriatic space that is not re-built, which is not concrete. That it can't be better, it can be, but you realize that in Croatia the government... chaos is an inappropriate assessment and I absolutely reject it, so that it can be said in this Croatian Assembly that in Croatia the government... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] chaos. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32413	Thank you. The answer to the replica Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32414	Dear Mr. Bacic, while you were Minister, you did very little about the public space in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not saying that the situation is generally bad, look at some of our country's urban chaos in them. I was here on purpose to talk about urban planning of individual cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, but in some governments urban chaos and we did not prevent it. We didn't stop construction in a protected coastal belt, we didn't stop it. We passed the law, and we allowed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32415	And Josip Boric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32416	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Klarin, I also disagree with your claim that you have repeated several times today that in the Croatian government urban chaos. There may be chaos in Tisno, but in this chaos people come and tourists want to come to Tisno, and to Murter, and especially to Kornati, regardless of what might be there somewhere and some illegal construction. It's too hard for that. And that we have building space showing data from this document. In Adriatic Croatia, the total number of planned construction areas was reduced by 7,000 hectares, by 7,000 hectares and by a hectare we reduced the total number of inhabitants from the previous 2001. 24.6 was, and now it's 17.8. If 17 of us are on a hectare of the construction area and we are an overpopulated area, we certainly don't know what we're talking about, and the document itself says in the Adriatic Croatia there could be at least 700 thousand new inhabitants. Unfortunately, they are gone, and there are no people who will help this country to make certain incomes with their work and stay in the area, so that the state lives on. But all the time we've been talking, we've been rebuilding, and all the documents say the exact opposite, that's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32417	The answer to the replica Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32418	You know, Mr. Boric, why is there no illegal construction in Tisno municipality? Because the municipality is doing its job well, because our municipal redistribution has reported up to 1 illegally built building, because we have 14 urban planning arrangements, but you can go very close to the municipality of Tisno, for example. in Sibenik-Knin County, in the municipality of Rogoznica or Zadar County, the municipality of Vir, and you will see if there is urban chaos there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32419	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32420	Dear Madam Vice President, Ms. Secretary with an associate, a respected colleague and colleague. The HDZ Club will be retained around the Report on the State of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012. And we will be restrained for one reason, and that is that we absolutely agree with everything that is written in the report and that implies the use of data from different records, spatial-planned documents, everything that is written in the report and what has been done in the legislative sense during that period and everything that has been established in the report, which is realised on the basis of these spatial plans and laws in the past, the period for which this report is submitted. But what we will be restrained for is a reason why we disagree with the assessments given at the end of each chapter on the implementation of these laws and these projects in each of the powers for which this assessment is given. For us at the HDZ Club, this can also be further explained in the discussion that we live that such assessments are incompatible with what is done, which is stated in the report, that these assessments are often flat-rate, and in some assessments that do not directly concern construction, spatial and urban professions, I would say perhaps economic professions serve for daily political purposes. So, at one level that I think is flat-out and about which part of it later and in my discussion I will say. So, we support everything that's written in the report, that it's done, even though some things are missed and I'm going to mention them, but on the other hand, we disagree with some of the grades that we've heard today in the opening part, which Mrs. Minister gave, and later on in the documents that were written here. Therefore, the fact is that the improvement of spatial development and environmental protection has been done very much in the past period and in the section relating to legislative activities, as well as implementation activities. I said earlier in the replica that it was the Government when it came to preserving space in the Republic of Croatia, and I found it with such a strong sentence that the Croatian Adriatic, if we are to talk about this most valuable resource, the spatial resource in the Republic of Croatia, clearly respecting other spaces. That it represents an ideal spatial framework and substance for the European Mediterranean Park, which we absolutely agree on. Namely, the period for which the government submits a report, so the period 2008 to 2012 has been marked significantly by the legislative activities carried out by the Croatian Government, which was carried out by the Croatian Assembly at its accession, in the process of negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the EU. Such a policy of spatial regulation was not part of the negotiating process for the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, i.e. it is not part of the European acquis. In this process, the Republic of Croatia adopted a series of laws in the field of environment, transport policy, energy and agriculture and rural development. The harmonisation of domestic legislation with the acquis in these segments, therefore, transport, energy, environmental protection, agricultural and rural development, and the implementation of these laws are essential to certain activities in the area which this report then establishes. It is also important to note that significant efforts have been made during this period to focus sustainable development, rational use of protection and space and to strengthen awareness of space conservation. I must say that one of the important syntagms of the previous government that mainly covers, has worked during this period was the fact that in Croatia there is a balance, a balance between creating assumptions of one economic development and on the other side of our desire and our commitment to preserve this space. How much was made during that period in the part relating to the urban planning of the Republic of Croatia is the fact that during that period we have brought the spatial plans of all counties into the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, that spatial arrangements of all cities and municipalities in that period have been adopted, and that I have said almost three thousand or urban planning arrangements or detailed arrangements with what is clearly a number still of these three thousand spatial planning documents in realisation. When talking about spatial planning documents, it is necessary to point out that the construction areas of the settlement are one of the most important planning instruments. The introduction of a policy of spatial development, measures and activities was aimed at reducing the surface area of the irrational reservation of excessive areas for the development of settlements, and this report showed that construction areas in the new spatial plans of municipalities and cities, which were used on the basis of existing spatial plans of cities and municipalities, have been significantly reduced. In my view, this is a very important indicator that order was wanted to be introduced into space, that no irrevocably large area was reserved for the construction areas of the settlement and other construction areas, so compared to the situation that was in the spatial plans of the former large municipalities prior to Croatia's independence, the construction area decreased by 17.5%. So there was intention, there was a desire to reduce too much reserved construction space which practically did not justify the purpose of its existence and through the adoption of spatial planning documents to reduce this space. Although it is still large today according to this data, the Minister said earlier, in the Republic of Croatia, when all the areas of the building could be realised, nearly 6 and a half million inhabitants could live. What we believe is very important in this development is the Institute of the Protected Coastal Area, which was introduced by the Regulation in 2004 and subsequently strengthened by the 2007 Law and which has significantly contributed to the meaning of the regulation of this coastal band in the Republic of Croatia and which forced the representative bodies of cities and municipalities in the protected coastal area to make their building spaces, to bring their development into line with the protected, with provisions on the protected coastal area of the sea. The report now says that it is necessary to redefine the boundaries of the protected coastal area. However, I did not see in that same report what strong, strong arguments are to move towards a change in the borders of the protected coastal area. In any case, if the Government goes into the process and moves forward with the change of borders of the protected coastal area of the sea, it automatically means that for all Adriatic counties, all cities and municipalities, we have a new process of amending and supplementing spatial plans, as only reducing or increasing that limit will mean that all cities and municipalities in that area will need to contribute to the business of new changes and the addition of spatial plans that such a legal provision would practically impose. I do not know for what reasons where the areas to which the Government has set out are, which are then identified as areas of special protection, the protected ecological fishing band has also been set up, it has been declared to the UN depositary and is practically in place for all countries of the world except that it has been suspended in the fishing work for EU Member States. Furthermore, what is represented in the report is through the assessment of the situation, a reflection on the reintroduction of general urban plans, as another spatial planning document that should be considered in the view of the motions of this report. I think that if the Government is prepared in such a procedure that, at the end of those conclusions or in the proposed activities, we should say exactly why we should change the space of the protected coastal area of the sea, which is why we should reintroduce the general urban plans and everything the Government has written in its proposed activities, it seems to me that it should explain in detail that we here in the Assembly, on the basis of these arguments, should be able to properly discuss the government's intentions to change the legislative example of the separation of the law on construction from the law on spatial regulation, which is now covered by one law. What we can say is that it marked this reporting period and also the year before 2008 are certainly huge investments in the construction of the road network, the gas system and electronic communications systems. According to the assessment found in the report itself, the Republic of Croatia is said to have achieved higher rates of development in these systems compared to EU countries. In addition to road construction and road infrastructure, large investments are made in gas and electronic communications systems and are realised in sea ports, therefore in all 6 ports of national importance. I would therefore like to express my disagreement with the point of view expressed in the report, that so far growth is mainly based on the ino of borrowing, primarily for consumption and not for production and investment. In fact, it is difficult to link this finding to the fact that the rate of road development, the gas system, electronic communications systems and investments in seaports has been achieved. It is about projects financed ino by borrowing and whose realisation is an important prerequisite for balanced regional development as well as the development of tourism and the recognition of our coast as a desirable tourist destination in the Mediterranean. So if we have found that this road infrastructure is indeed a pipeline system for development of seaports to a large extent during this reporting period that it has done very much on this plan, then we are surprised by the second finding that the ino is borrowing, which was largely focused on these investments only for consumption and smaller production purposes. One of the important segments for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, for which pre-conditions need to be created and in spatial-planned documentation is the issue of energy supply and energy system building in the Republic of Croatia. and, therefore, in 2009, this strategy was adopted, which is planned for the next ten-year period of major investment right in energy. If this is true, the first ten years of the 21st century have been dominated by investments in transport infrastructure and by public funds and according to the strategy itself and from what is clear at this time in the Republic of Croatia, these are new investments in the energy system, this time primarily by private funds, and as defined in the energy package that we discussed several days ago in the Parliament. What I would also like to point out is that it is very important and what this report states is that, in part of the preservation of space, the Republic of Croatia has declared significant areas in the Republic of Croatia to be very important for the prominent and I agree that Croatia has maximum protection of its premises, but in the report itself, it says that the Republic of Croatia is somewhere in the middle of the EU Member States and in the case of a national ecological network and in the case of protected spaces, and also in the case of the definition of areas designed to protect the ecological network of NATURA 2000. From the point of view of the existing spatial plans of the area of specific characteristics, we believe that the report should further address the issue of spatial plans of the area of specific characteristics, especially from the point of view of the management of protected coastal areas. When we say that some other things in this report have been omitted, I certainly do not know for what reason the legislation also mentions the Law on the handling and conditions of construction to encourage investment, because this law was also one of the instruments that it sought and which was on the trail of an economic programme brought by the former government when it wanted to encourage and speed up investments in the Republic of Croatia. About the achievements of this law, not a single word in this law. And in the end, I have to do what I said that the HDZ Club will be restrained, we expected, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that this huge material of 317 pages as it is intended for the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to be summed up to one document that could be made clear and said that this is also foreseen by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which would be more accessible, easier, more clean and in which the Government would clearly state what was well done or not in its opinion, which are the projects to be continued, which are the laws that need to be amended and why these laws should be amended. So, I commend this material in terms of what is truly comprehensive, which, with fewer shortcomings, really shows everything that has been done in the Republic of Croatia in space for the past 10 or 4 years for which the report has been drawn up but it was possible to make a summary with clear conclusions that the Government would tell the Croatian Parliament where and in what way it intends to take place through the spatial arrangement strategy in the next reporting period. So here's the conclusion, the HDZ Club will be restrained for these very reasons when it comes to the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32421	We're moving on to the replicas of your exposure. Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32422	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is not clear to me, Mr. Bacic, that you will be restrained and this report is brought for a period when you were the minister. But okay. It's your club's legitimate position. Secondly, I support that you have brought a number of quality documents regarding spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia while you were Minister and you have some credit for that, but you have also brought some that are just a dead letter on paper. Type of Strategy for the Development of Nautical Tourism, which is quite quality and processed in this report, as I mentioned in my debate. So since 2008 since you brought in and no new port of nautical tourism has been built before. They're the same facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32423	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32424	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, if that's what these arguments are all about, then you should be against the report. If I'm on behalf of the club, I'm saying that I'm abstentioned to a report relating to the period when HDZ ran the government, and you're saying that nothing was done at that time and that... you should be against or abstained and you're in favour. I am not against the report in the section in which this report represents everything that has been done but I am restrained because the report does not comply with all that has been done in that period. And as for the strategy, I think the strategy for developing nautical tourism is very good, that it envisioned everything that should be done in Croatia in order to strengthen the position of nautical tourism even though it is one of the largest in the Mediterranean for the growth of nautical tourism. However, strategies are not adopted in one year, the strategy is adopted by 10. 15 years and should not be expected to take place in the first year of the strategy immediately. Meanwhile, there was a crisis, a recession, and it was one of the most important reasons why it stopped building new nautical ports on the Adriatic, but I now expect this government here for 12 months, 13, as far as the state is managing, has not yet passed the Law on Maritime Good, which was in that strategy one of the documents that needs to be amended to speed up the process of concessioning port nautical tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32425	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32426	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, colleague Bačić, you have said well that the HDZ Club will be restrained around this report, not because of reports that are quality made, but because of some flat-rate reviews where it is intended to go into politics with a very high quality material. I'll stick to only one segment, and that's the total debt of the state. The great growth so far is mainly based on ino borrowing, with nothing documented, simply not true. And he says foreign debt has missed the level of GDP and this is all that he writes inside I guarantee that no one who deals with public finances would write such a document. That's what someone wrote on the side of who's on the cobwebs. And do you really think that in Croatia you should not have made highways, that in Croatia you should not have made roads, that in Croatia and on Croatian islands you should not have made dozens of ports, that thousands of farms should not have been built in Croatia, that hundreds of schools should not have been made in Croatia, that hundreds of school sports halls should not have been built in Croatia, that in areas that were destroyed you should not have made infrastructure, and that is all the public debt of Madam Minister. You can't say from the money in the state budget that it's in debt I don't know what, and it's not in charge of building some port port. It's simply a government policy because the budget is an instrument for one government's economic policy and you can't say that part of the money has gone into consumption and this has been financed from debt, and what was financed in this way is not good. And it's a shame that you missed out on it, and it's probably not your profession, so you didn't pay too much attention to it, it's a pity that some of these kind of flat-rates had an extremely high quality material. I'm sorry there are no colleagues, Clarina, you should see how many Croatia had 7-8 years ago of spatial plans. She had 80 of them. Today, there is no unit of local self-government that has no spatial plan, thanks to counterpart Dropulic and thanks to counterpart Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32427	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32428	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague Schuker that Croatia needed a strong investment procedure, primarily the regulation of capital transport infrastructure. And what I have been repeating in this assembly for a long time is that without systematically built transport infrastructures in Croatia or the Republic of Croatia in this crisis, the recession years would not have been related to such results in the tourism it achieves. In Croatia, 90% of tourists come on the road and if no road infrastructure had been built so that at the same time the Republic of Croatia had to be in debt, there would not have been so many funds collected in Croatia today, somewhere around 7 billion euros or 8 billion euros as the last season's data from tourism. So, the fact is not that Croatia was in priority for consumption and not for development, and we found in that same report that when it comes to road infrastructure, we are a pipeline system and telecommunications far ahead of the investments that have invested in a stronger economy in Europe. However, if we hadn't invested here today, we wouldn't be as tempting, as open to the tourism sector as we are today, and it's clear that other investments are now following, not just in the transport system, that energy investments are now following. I also said that this decade in which we are now supposed to be dominantly marked by investing in energy, which is why the 2009 Energy Development Strategy, which is now to be realised, has been adopted, but in the past year as far as this investment tsunami has been concerned, and in the first place even on energy systems, they have lagging behind. And at the same time, while on the one hand there is no investment in Croatia, the government is critical of that period which was very active in investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32429	Andrej Plenkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32430	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you have concluded well that it is indeed a pity that one such quality and inter-resor material not only does not have one small introduction in some way to facilitate and not only the fellows but also the public study of this document but also that there is not one slightly more concrete conclusion that is more based on the facts that are in the report. And you mentioned the context of our negotiations with the European Union. What is important, the minister may not have been able to introduce, given the size of this report, is to mention new developments in the Lisbon Treaty that are significantly related to such reports. The Lisbon Treaty has introduced the shared competence of the European Union and of the Member States when it comes to territorial cohesion. We see from this document that exactly the aspect of multi-level governance, the aspect of decentralisation, the aspect of the comprehensiveness of all development policies is somehow contained in this document, and it seems to me to be a reference framework for all of us that will serve as a basis for implementing a series of projects in the context of joining the European Union. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister to have the opportunity to look back on that part in your final presentation. And what is also a small drawback from the international point of view in my court is that the Danube strategy of the European Union is mentioned only marginally at the time when the Commissioner responsible for it is precisely Mr Hahn who was here two days ago in Croatia, who is responsible for regional development and for regional policy and who is leading these projects and strives to strengthen the cross-border aspect and spatial arrangements and regional development and cohesion. So it seems to me that we also have to take care of this because, let us not forget, Croatia is the only country in Europe that has the privilege of being both Danube and Adriatic, or Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32431	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32432	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague Plenkovic, that the report should have been further strengthened in that part, although I must say this in the report, so that the policy of spatial regulation was not part of the legal gain, but that, after the Lisbon Treaty, certain areas in which the policy of spatial regulation at European Union level should be leveled, and then clearly... and for the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what's said in that part. Indeed, there is a lack in the part relating to the Danube Strategy, although it is mentioned but, for example, it is not mentioned in the report of the existence of the Sava Commission, which was just established in the Republic of Croatia, with the sole goal of strengthening the internal waterway, it is the Sava River, to define access to the water economic management of the Sava River River in the Republic of Croatia. Also, isn't it incomprehensible that this report on the 310 pages that enters a number of details does not mention the Pelješki Bridge in any single word. So, not to mention in any single word that the Republic of Croatia at least tried to obtain a building permit, it agreed with the neighbouring state in the building of the Pelješko Bridge, that it is not written how and how the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not make a connection with the Pelješki bridge, although it will not mention it why it does not say in what way it will really connect the Croatian end south. I think in that part too, because that bridge was very much at that time for which this report was submitted, and it was a very significant infrastructure, economic project that it was very challenging, please? It was started at the end, which was therefore so challenging that I would say criticism on one side in the Croatian public, but also on the other hand, which is so necessary, it needs the far south of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32433	Thank you very much. The Minister will probably give the next report, because this is the report by 2012, and there is no bridge. Col. Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32434	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you were talking about the protection of coastal and marine space. I would dare in this replica to tell you my personal opinion. The mechanisms that should implement this are multidisciplinary, of course, because it is a sea space, a coastal belt. And unfortunately so far the state and structure of these mechanisms, their real position in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, their real powers and possibilities are very bad and it is so found. If it were so witnessed by the space of Kaštela which is a monument... in the Republic of Croatia, the main testimony is how and how the space was managed, which is the efficiency of the construction inspection in Croatia all these years, which is the efficiency of inspection services that oversee the management of maritime goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You also looked back and criticised the current government for failing to pass the Law of Marine Good in a year. Well, I have a collection at home of attempts by a bound-up former government that has been trying to pass the same law for three years. So let this government have some more time to do the job. And finally ZERP, ZERP is a Croatian national disgrace. The relationship with ZERP is a disgrace to Croatian politics. What we did by not implementing ZERP is something that God may forgive us, but the future generations will not. It would be good, therefore, if ZERP were mentioned not to be placed in such a trivial context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32435	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32436	My colleague Baranovic, I think this report refers to the period 2008-2012, although it continued in 2003, 2004 and so on in its indicators. You're talking about the Gulf of Kastelan. Well, you don't think the Kaštela Gulf has been ruined in the past and Kaštela in the past few years, that it's one legacy that's been happening for decades and that's ruined the space of Kaštela. And if you want to during that period, the Eco-Kaštelan Bay Agency is also established with the aim of getting rid of and protecting this beautiful space in central Dalmatia. Therefore, this report shows that water supply and water protection and the construction of wastewater disposal systems are very, very much done. As far as ZERP is concerned, I just said that one document that reflects for a time cannot mention the fact that it was brought and that it is valid. In the end, you know well that in the part relating to ecology, that in the section relating to the ecology that ZERP is in effect, that it is not in force. So in 2008, we didn't charge the cost of polluting the Adriatic from that Turkish ship... which took place on the Adriatic is precisely the fact that the Maritime Code has adopted all those provisions made by a decision on the establishment and declaration of the ZERP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact that ZERP isn't in the fishing section, the fishing industry is all the way consummated by you and I who were the reasons. So I'm just saying that at that point in this document, it was supposed to be mentioned because ZERP as one of the marine spaces recorded in the United Nations. And I don't see any reason why he can't be recorded in a small report, this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32437	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you've rated this part well. It means that regardless of the good introductions and good explanations and statistics in the document itself, some chapters have been assessed and adapted to the current let's say politics and policy intentions. But before that, what they tell you was that you were a bad minister. You've been a good minister in a short time, if for nothing else and then for doing the job that two ministers are doing today on your own. And as for these flat-rates on page 135 and the Peljesk Bridge story, serious policy, the serious state would take advantage of the possibility to discuss in the Assembly a document like this and to be the basis for building and seeking EU funds and the basis of such a document, rather than writing as it is written here that the road connection between the southern part of the country and the rest of the road network will be linked. That's a fact to point out. As for the relationship of this document to the policy that is implemented, the page 91 speaks and talks about Croatian islands where it is beautifully stated what has been done so far and then, in the end, all of this requires measures of subsidy, support and favourable credit programmes to make improvements in this part of Croatia, it is thought of islands, and then all of this in the state budget seems quite poor and almost gone. This calls for emphasis on the importance and seriousness of this document because it should first and foremost be the basis for what we are going to do tomorrow, and that we can call upon and call upon it when we want to withdraw funds from certain parts and from EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32438	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32439	That's right, fellow Boric. In this report, and this is not the place, I agree that financial indicators may be given when we talk about investment in road, transport, energy or any other infrastructure or even social infrastructure. But you were a time, a long time, and an assistant minister and secretary of state in the ministry, so you know best how much money has just been invested on Croatian islands. That every year in the Croatian Parliament we submitted reports on the implementation of the Law on Islands and that these reports showed that between 2004 and 2011, nearly a billion and 800 million kuna were invested annually on Croatian islands. I also, speaking of reports, here I must admit that I am surprised that the government did not discuss the state of the Croatian islands last year, the implementation of the law on Croatian islands for 2011 which was required under the law to do. And I am very interested in what report on the implementation of the Law on Croatian Islands will be for 2012 when we know how much money is secured in the state budget or how much and what will be the report on the state of the Croatian islands for the period 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32440	It is up to HDSSB and counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32441	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister with assistant assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, you don't have to argue too much with your colleagues here on the side of HDZ or from the Kukurik coalition. The other day I said in a debate that there was one where I stood you up. So maybe I should repeat that same sentence or quote this time, since after all these reports, after determining the situation instead of what my colleague Bacic said in the investment tsunami, and let me say in the sea, do we actually have an investment bonus, right? However, to return to this Report on the state of space in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012. This is the one I would have said buildup, one interdisciplinary or interdisciplinary as said here someone access and material that actually imported on these 320 pages all of what is actually happening in Croatia in all areas starting from this basic space-building part to the demographic elements in the Republic of Croatia and what we have actually found in that period in the Republic. So here we have reports of the number of universities, colleges, dormitories, mine or mined areas, areas under mines, undefined areas, areas of special state care, social institutions, judicial and educational institutions, so primary school, high school etc. So, just one inventory, I would call it, the situation in the Republic of Croatia between 2008 and 2012. Which is good that we have and it's nice and it's shown. It's very rare that we have one display in the technique to say LCD, but we're a little bit small on these monitors, so it's less visible, but hopefully soon I'll tell this book in which we're going to have and in the color of all these tables, the graphs from which it's going to be much clearer. We expect, that is, that this report on the situation in space could serve, God forbid, to develop strategies, concrete plans that would enable therefore and investment in the Republic of Croatia, which so far is as the bona fide said but also the possibilities to see where and through which and through which elements we can withdraw funds from the EU's access cohesion and structural funds available. It was said at the beginning, even by 13 billion euros, here we are now slantfully re-burned at 11.7 billion euros by 2020. To talk about that economic-fishing ecological belt that was in play until 2004 and later on about ZERP, it's funny to accuse you as you accuse each other of privatizing and destroying actually the INA. Likewise, the Committee of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia has just been created to cover up both the furniture and their sins in the privatisation of the INA. It's a fact and you can't get away from it because citizens today don't know who's responsible for it. But it is important that we pay attention to this report on the state of the room, therefore, to this energy system, energy and the development of energy, but also to the preservation of the environment and what Croatia really has, as it is said heretically, a natural heritage, so a healthy natural environment. Therefore, I must warn that, clearly, there can be no wild dumps in this report, etc. but we still haven't solved the county, or regional waste dumps, or waste management in the counties and regions. They are still reluctant, here you can see the other day how Bandic handles it in Zagreb. But we still have the unresolved issue of Brod-Posavina County, landfills, or waste management centre in Slavonski Brod that actually failed as a result, the same way as SDP does of hiring people in management centres, newly established centres by waste management counties. And actually these centers like our county don't work at all, they don't have their own, their role is actually just to hire someone and split the wages. So there is, and not only in our county, but also in a number of other counties. Our rights, wealth are our National Parks which we also have reports here, our forests and water. And for that reason again, and based on this report as they say, someone is appealing to the banks to reduce interest, but to call, to appeal to the preservation of that national treasure really is necessary because we see that every day and through the media, but also through statements and here in the Assembly that we are slowly getting closer and closer to some kind of, that it is becoming, trying to get us into our ear that it is normal to sell it into exactly this kind of natural wealth like forests and water. Well, it's not gonna work that way. From this report is also visible and the execution of centralisation, in fact what we keep mentioning in our programme and here for this speaker in terms of statistical, regional division of the Republic of Croatia and lags, as they like to say in Pannonian Croatia or Eastern Croatia, and I say Slavonia, Baranja and our part of Srijem. Indeed, from this report it is very visible what policy was being conducted and how these counties are on, to say in the east of Croatia, Brod-Posavina first of all, Vukovar-Srijemska, Virovitičko-Podravska and Požega-Slavon County really according to all the indicators that are very well mentioned here, in fact in the last place, and most of all. You can see that and a half, but when you start at the beginning with these indicators that are more demographic, right, so when you talk about the population and the administrative and territorial division of the Republic of Croatia then you can see that Croatia, which has lost about 150 thousand people from the last census, then you see that in 20 out of 21 counties in Croatia, that only 4 have an increase in population. And these are Zadarska, Zagrebačka, City of Zagreb and Istria. All other counties and record population declines, with the largest decline in the population of Vukovar-Srijemska and Brod-Posavina County, followed by Bjelovar-Bilogorska. So if the index is 100% then the Ship-Posavia County is now on the 89.7% index. So almost 11% of the population lost Brod-Posaviska and Vukovar-Srijemska 12% of the population. And when you look at the density of population, so that's exactly what that migration part is also very much represented in these counties. One huge migration from our five counties. Yesterday I was talking to the ambassador of Brazil to the Republic of Croatia, and in that conversation we touched informally, and all areas and economies, and he told me that 3,000 young, educated, educated people each year, he has a desk to discuss obtaining a visa for Brazil, the Republic of Brazil. 3,000 people want to move out of Croatia to Brazil every year. And what about those other six countries that have a rapidly growing economy and stability like the United States, Canada and others? Clearly, there may be no visas, no visas for China, but for these countries, to say the West, there's certainly more. Both Canada and the United States and Australia. If Brazil has a demand of 3,000 visas a year. Where are we, where are we going and what's going to happen? Sometimes I like to say that in Croatia, Croatia will become the European, largest European nursing home, because this is being prepared for Croatia with this bonus investment, as it is said in the post-its. Here, let's just look at one more thing, in this census that came out as if the Chinese were counting, not Croats, so it took a year and a half to wait for basic data. There is one interesting fact that there are 1535 in Croatia, 1 535 000 households, of which in Zagreb there are 304,000, but there are 1,880 000 apartments in Croatia at the same time, and the number of households is one and a half million. What does that mean? Exactly what you have found is that Croatia has the possibility of being a state for 6 and a half million inhabitants, according to its housing capacity. So we have about 300 thousand apartments empty. Whether they're abandoned, abandoned, whether they're unsold, we're talking about new constructions mostly. Very interesting information, are we going to use how you say it in the introductory word and in what direction it is clear that this thing may be on some other ministries how I might say the advantage of this time even though it is a sad fact to take advantage of it and so that here again it can be that this material is very interesting, that shows almost all segments of Croatian society, so it is not just an inventory of space but both people and space and goods and services and everything. And it would be good material not only for parliamentary representatives but for all units of local self-government and not even for all natural persons to know what it has in the Republic of Croatia if there are already entrepreneurial ideas, I know that there are them to be the basis of this material. I don't think it's trendy if I don't want to justify anyone here. Maybe what Mr. Shuker noticed, speaking of debts, etc. That's maybe here's the technical maybe some other... It's so mean. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If necessary, it should be corrected before the final printing of this material in the form of a book. Thank you very much. I think the HDSSB club will support this change.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32442	I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 11 o'clock and 4 minutes and now we move on to replicas, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32443	Thank you, Madam Vice President. When you opened the waste disposal issue, you opened one topic that is extremely important, which is partly covered by this report but which many are not aware of as potential bombs in the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? I speak from experience from our Dubrovnik-Neretva County. In a few years, we will have a closed dump in Grabovac, so the main dump site of the city of Dubrovnik that still threatens the population of Dubrovnik because it pollutes directly the drinking water that is drained from the Zomble. So this dump will have to be closed in the next few years and in the meantime it will not open the central dump of the county because of the government's negligence, because of the fact that the construction of the county central dump has been stopped without delay in one location that was found in the county area because the minister at the time simply took the position that it should not be put off there, so she mentioned some kind of burner ship, which would simply be impossible to solve waste disposal issues in such a way that she gave up on it and she cares about it. Fortunately, the dialogue between the county and the Ministry of Environmental Protection has recently been renewed, not directly related to the Ministry of Civil Engineering but indirectly, so I hope that this issue will be resolved. But in any case, all our islands don't have an adequate way of taking care of waste. The dumps are banned, so we need waste management centres that will properly approach this problem or we will have what is happening today in some cities of Europe as it has been in Naples and some other cities that have been buried with garbage without knowing how to find a solution, so the state had to intervene. So that's the area we need to urgently edit, where we have to give all the instruments to the county to find the best answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32444	Thank you. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32445	Thank you very much, colleague Matušić. I really didn't hear about that phantom boat, I heard there's a hotel boat and so on, but this isn't, for the first time, my first news. But well but indeed the problem of waste management and the problem of waste management in the Republic of Croatia is not solved by many counties. Here I was also talking about the problem in our Ship-Posavina County but here I see you've come to the same problem in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and I think if we want to be and we're going in, hopefully we're entering 1. So, in July in the EU, if we were to do this in a really appropriate way, I would say a Europeanised way to actually be amongst the aj to tell Europe's most orderly countries. Thank you very much. I hope so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32446	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32447	Well, Mr. Grubisic, you've actually made a good point of what it is to manage space when we deal with buildings, houses or a problem of wild construction or a problem of bad urbanism in general if we don't deal with people because what it does to build if it's primarily people and only after people come this building. So perhaps this space work should be dealt with primarily in humans and then with what people in that space are doing. That report may not have dealt with enough, it's actually people's problem, of course, and that's a matter of demographic policy that this country actually doesn't have systematically. Some answer that we must in some way give where the resources are to prevent Croatia from dying further, but not just the dying of Croatia, but these trends that are present. It is not only Slavonia empty, it is empty and Gorski Kotar, it is empty and it is empty and a good part of the Dalmatian Zagora and the answers that we must find in what way to revitalise these spaces with people, so when it comes to the census then it is interesting that the state statistical institutions, the State Statistics Office which has about 500 employees around here are moving around the number of employees cannot find 100 or 150 people who would work on data processing from the census, but should therefore hire students. It's almost an incredible phenomenon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32448	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32449	A colleague of Đurović and you can see the population of the Republic of Croatia by square kilometre is 75 inhabitants per square kilometre. This belongs to European standards and statistical standards in a rarely populated European country. We know that the EU has 500 million inhabitants and that the average population density in the EU that has countries I would say a little more exotic than those in the east of us, but yet the average population population is over 100, so 111 population density is over 111. Croatia is like almost a European kind of Sahara here and there with some oasis of some kind of residents, so it kind of turns out. This is really very interesting next to the land that God has given us besides all possible seas and mountains, and plains, and all wealth, we simply don't take care enough of these demographic catastrophic indicators that this report shows. Here's another sentence. So I was talking about the number of households in Croatia in 2011, that number of households is a million 535 thousand, and the number of apartments in 2011, or I misstated it in 2001, so the number of apartments is 2.5 million. We have a million empty housing units in the Republic of Croatia. A million. It's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32450	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one is Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32451	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I think this report is very correct, it's just a collection of data and there's nothing to be against, it's just being accepted. They can well understand those who refer to certain comments with a report or some conclusions that they write. But the size of this is still data. And I think it would be good if we had another parallel report from the other ministry, which is a report on the state of the environment and nature, so we can see. Because this is the practical impact of man on the space and its action in physical terms, and here nothing is said about plant and animal species, is said except in the part of the ecological network NATURA 2000, nothing is said about air condition, air quality, drinking water, seas etc.. I think it would be a good thing if it were a whole story. I guess we'll discuss that report too. Because part of this behavior in space affects that other part of the story. Here we're just talking about a man of the population's density about how many of us are in which space, etc. However, this report is an extraordinary basis and should not, in fact, remain a dead letter on paper for the adoption of strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia which this country has never had, and this is the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia. It's a shame that we don't have it and we've never done it, but we have a collection of spatial plans basically in the county means the units of local self-government itself as if it's the basis for the adoption of a law on spatial regulation that needs to be arranged so that we don't have these negative elements of this report and of the situation in space. I will mention only on page 303 that you pay attention to the features of development in the space of the last ten years, so it says. I don't want to contaminate that specifically on the political part of the government in those ten years, but it's known what it was and who it was. An unfavourable demographic picture, to be brief, in which measures so far to improve regional development and help demographically threatened areas have not yet achieved the necessary effect. So whatever was going on in Malta not in 20 years since Croatia said I would literally not have had an effect before. Well then it writes to you, under-thinking, functional and contentful transformation of certain areas in the use of land use. and writes, "Unimplementation of active land policy, imbalance of traffic development, energy infrastructure, and long-term procedures for not solving waste management problems, and illegal building of buildings, etc., and the lack of the Strategy through property management, real estate." And you know what it says here? That no government has done anything. No Croatian government has succeeded in changing what it says here. But it would be good if at least when we're aware of it at least 20 years later we start to be something more effective. I'd like to refer to a few more features that point here, and they're going through, maybe they're not as prominent as the danger we're in. Because we are one of the few countries that we have highly preserved whatever anyone says about the environment and nature. I'll give you an example of just the county I come from. Only one of our counties has more plant and animal species than the entire Republic of Austria. There is the only area in Europe in which the wolf, lynx and bears live, these are three great European beasts. There's no other place where, from dolphins, Mediterranean bears, etc., white-headed soup, at least the vultures were talked about the other day, so I wouldn't be talking about it right now. However, it is that 40% of the region of the Republic of Croatia is protected by various acts from NATURA 2000 to the ecological network. In the case of the Primorje-Gorski County, it is 80% and over 80%. Why am I saying that? What development will we do if we protect everything? Protect all honors but not with due respect normally afterwards we'll wonder where the investments are and why we don't have them. What does that data mean to you? This should be considered quite urgently and possibly change and protect only what is necessary because otherwise you will be working alongside the Environmental Impact Study you will be doing the impact study on nature. For example, they'll be working wind power plants on Velebit, but then the study will have to prove that they don't fly birds and butterflies because if birds fly there, there's no wind power plant and so on, there's plenty of it, and this is very one thing for a serious debate. You also have the conclusion that we're covered in spatial plans, but the same way they are, they're usually not very great, they're incomplete, they're missing, and big development projects don't allow any more or less. Some have spoken about the waste, a particular topic, of course, that the object or something does not want anyone in its area, as people do not want any surgery. I remember, for example, you saw a marina in Icici over there at Opatija, when I was younger, everyone got on their feet, no one's going to be there or the beach or the marina. It was the people's event. Today everyone is happy to have both the beach and the marina. When there was a Baker-Industrial Zone Node... then they were lying in front of the baggers, now that road is saying great and it was supposed to be a road. I mean every honor to democratic rights of people to protest, but it often comes down to personal interests and to proof in the media of various individuals or groups of citizens, and we'll probably live off the air. For the time being, we still have it in a very high quality, or quality better said, regardless of some turns and bad features in some parts of Croatia. Here's what I was gonna say without bothering you too much. And one more thing, in handling construction inspections and in issuing permits. I think that, of course, the quality of these plans should be raised so that as many permits as possible can be issued, not that there are free interpretations of the referents dealing with the issue of licences because free interpretations often take place in corrupt behaviours where something can because I said so, and something can't, etc. But not only that, but then no one wants to judge, then you have those who really do their job very honestly, those are the largest majority, who don't want to issue a license because they're not all written, they don't want to interpret what they could and then objects stand. Then at the same time you have complaints about which order are accepted by the Ministry and they all fall in order because no one there wants to take responsibility and... that's okay. On the other hand, you have municipal redistribution, for example. cities and municipalities that I don't know as a rule of what it's for except that there's a yoke there because there's nothing anyone can do about it. For example, I think the minister said it should be authorized to keep records of objects in the construction area, other words there can't happen, there simply a buffer goes without asking anyone. There is nothing to prove there, and a construction inspection has to act in the building area so that an illegal object or object is not passed by the paper on the part that it is. And you actually heard the Minister's report, it's good that we have so many housing funds, and it's actually good that we have spatial plans that allow construction areas to actually have 2 million more people, so if not Croats there will be some others. So we can host another 2 million citizens of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32452	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32453	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In order not to remain an incorrect data, we discussed the State of the Republic of Croatia report last year, although for the period 2005-2008 and we cannot still discuss the 2008-2012 report, because at least that's how the law provides, given the long-term data collection of air, the environment, the sea, the forest, etc. So it is also European normative to discuss with a move of 2 years after the reporting period when it comes to environmental information. And in the second part you're talking about these conclusions or findings on page 303 you've kind of confirmed that you agree with me, that it's not possible because this turns out that no government has done anything during that period, so I think. You were a longtime mayor of the coastal-goran region, you can best confirm what was made of infrastructure, university campus, maritime investment, etc., etc. Therefore, such a situation as in your county may not be so much, some may have been invested at that level in building the assumption that the economic part of Croatia can develop. I think that, to the greatest extent through the construction of that infrastructure, there was traffic, there was water supply, there was sociality, that there was a lot of this, and this finding in a report that appreciates one period that I dare say is not just four years but longer, it doesn't stand for me. And that's why we've had this kind of approach to evaluate this report, which, as you said, is a lot of data, it's informatively good for everyone, but the assessment of the situation after such indicators doesn't stand for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32454	Replication response, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32455	Well, that's exactly what I'm saying, and what you're saying is that those grades should be cautious because they're being generalized. Surely everyone has done something, there are positive examples, but also the overall trends haven't changed, that's a fact. So we have Croatia unequally developed since 1:5, when you rule out the City of Zagreb 1:3. You have democratic movements all over the world, it is not the specificity of Croatia where population migration happens towards large centres. Split sucks Split-Dalmatia, Rijeka, not as many Rijekas as the river ring sucks out the Primorje-Gorski County, Zagreb sucks out, I think it happens in every country of Europe or America or somewhere. I think the whole science of this is actually being led, and in order to stop this people have to have actually economic power in that area to have a job and quality of life, to have content that they can use, and that they don't leave, and these are the processes that happen and they're going to happen. And that's the fact that it's not answered in that part, and that's the economic question. It's all economical, and then it gets demographic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32456	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32457	Thank you very much. Comrade Komadin, you have partly looked back at demographics in your presentation, so you have found that we are in our county one interesting area of wolf, bear and lynx in one area... But we're discussing a document where there are concrete figures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're exact, they can't change. And they warn, this is a warning, and the fact for our county is the defeat of 10,000 inhabitants less than in 2001. Ten grand. I said yesterday by the household income or household index we fell from third place as a relatively rich county in seventh place. By the number of nights we were caught up by the Split-Dalmatia County. The city of Rijeka as the largest centre, as the county centre in 10 years, lost 15000 inhabitants. There have been 15,000 inhabitants left this city. It's data that says something, and there's something that needs to be done about it. And when we compare ourselves to the Republic of Croatia and other demographic data that speak here, we have one Zagreb that has lost 91,000 inhabitants in 10 years. He said from River 15, and the town of Chakovec from 30 to 15000. 100% of the population has been lost in 10 years. Does the data tell you anything? They're probably talking. ... Often the city of Zadar is attacked and there is an increase in population by 2000. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] It means there's a difference between people. Now, our mayor in Rijeka says he's gonna build a railroad from one end of town to the other end of town, and we don't even have a bus station, but we have to get on the umbrella buses in the rain. And yet we're going with some kind of policy and clearly it's very, very unsuccessful.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32458	Thank you very much. But fellow Boric, look at the difference between the township of Čakovec and the town of Čakovec, so compare the data rather than this irresponsible. The answer to the replica of Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32459	So there's a correlation between the degree of development and the white plague, or demographic decline. As a rule, the more developed environment in difficult economic conditions has fewer populations, the first rule. Others move from such developed environments to more developed environments, into the European Union, and that is the same. You have migrations, moving right into our county of people from another part of Croatia who think that they still live well there. The data suggests that we are next to the city of Zagreb and Istria County at the top of the economic average of the Republic of Croatia. Of course it was nothing. It was far better and far more. As far as the river is concerned, Rijeka lost one resident, for example, me because I moved to the slopes of Učka. I think the river goes into a river ring, because the quality of life there happens differently and what happens the same. Cheaper communal givings and compensations occur where people can make it cheaper. Well, that's everywhere, that's so, so you said the same thing I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32460	God of Calmeta, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32461	Dear colleague Komadina, you said two things one thing is that trends are negative. They are negative today, but until the crisis these trends were positive. They were evident in GDP growth and income, etc. etc. Unfortunately, after the crisis, not only in Croatia, they have been put negatively in many countries. But what I'm trying to say is you said that this report would allow us to conclude that the former governments or did nothing. I will remind you, although you as the mayor then, I believe a successful mayor know it very well, and you can testify that in 2004, in the beginning of transport infrastructure in Rijeka and in the river ring, no projects were made. So there were no projects either. This full profile of the highway has been completed and the most difficult shares from Zagreb to Rijeka, which was absolutely necessary. So all of this was necessary, which I'm going to count now. Shares of highways from the border with Slovenia, then the Rijeka bypass, i.e. the full profile of the Rijeka bypass which was extremely demanding and difficult and which was also necessary to make it because this direction is important for tourists to arrive in Croatia. So, not only is it not important only locally but also much, much wider, that we do not say that 404 so one road that directly from the highway goes to the port and thus creates a perspective for opening the port etc. etc. Not to mention investing in the harbor. It's strong money, it's big money, billions of it's kuna. But I say it is absolutely necessary because Rijeka is Croatia's first port and the most important port, and it was all very necessary, designed and useful, and today it is very much in function. Here's why I just wanted to replicate that we remember together, you and I, and all of us, about everything that's been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32462	The answer to the replica of Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32463	Well, I just said a little while ago, namely here I was talking about the general evaluations that it says. Otherwise, you're absolutely right. I confirm that the most investment in transport infrastructure is primarily made during your term as Minister and the term of office of Mr. Ivo Sanader and that is the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32464	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32465	Dear colleague Komadin, you have said one sentence about how we will invest if we protect everything and you have connected with one other sentence or part of the sentence I am actually connecting about major development projects. I think we're mystifying these big development projects and I'd like to see once what big development projects are waiting for us. I know that again in one house that will sell furniture is spoken of as a big project, it's about PLOMIN, OMBLA and golf courses. PLOMIN and OMBLA are two old projects that have been mentioned for decades and I don't understand why to build in intact nature, in protected areas when we have hundreds or thousands of abandoned facilities that are close to infrastructure. There's no need to build infrastructure. We have hundreds of barracks that are untapped. The Croatian state has so many facilities, land that is not intact in nature, and we do not know what with them, there is no plan, there is not even a list. Therefore, protected nature and protected parts of Croatia are our advantage, which is why it will be desirable to live in Croatia and why we can develop tourism in which we should invest. What we should invest is agriculture, so we can live off it. I don't think we should touch what's intact, it should remain intact and be the advantage of Croatia. And I'm telling you big development projects that are mystification, they're mirage organs, but if there are then we'd like to see who they are here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32466	Replication response, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32467	Well, you're right, Mr. Vuksic. Namely, I'll tell you the examples I've been thinking about. Look, the problem is that we, with spatial plans, actually define procedures in places that may be the worst or the hardest or owners are not state-owned but private, or are exactly where butterflies are, and not where they're not butterflies. No one's watching that. And when you have a network of this ecological network, then you've got everywhere, I think a good space has to be seen and designed objects and we have real space as you say. But here's an example, the Miklavlje zone, one big business zone in Matulja Municipality at the border with Slovenia where the railway line and highway to Ljubljana passes. This should be the second largest, or largest, zone in the Republic of Croatia. And for large investments, etc. And now watch what it looks like in Croatia. First, nothing has been strained for years, then the state eventually transferred it to Matulji Municipality, regardless of what I think the municipality itself is not a level of governance that can manage such a large system, but well, that would now stand because Croatian forests should cut down the forest there. And Croatian forests are looking for 11 million kunas for lost wood mass. Now who's crazy here? It's all the same country. And now we're standing here, who's going to give $11 million to some Matulji municipality? I guess that state should give it away again, and they don't have it and they still did what you said at the CREDO Bank. That's what I remember when you mentioned it. So the public business I think must be responsible and we must protect space from one side and that balance should be found but also allow for development. We haven't protected the space yet, we haven't made it possible to develop. I mean, I'm generally saying, let's let the roads go, the roads are made and God forbid they are. What about the railroad, what about the power facilities? Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32468	We're continuing the debate. Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32469	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister of Cooperation, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the general report I'm simply offered to pull the parallel towards local self-government. I can't stand it but it's just like that, I have to, and I believe that we'll all find ourselves more or less on that basis and because what I'm about to say is I don't believe that anything is new and on the other hand is certainly the basis for what might be avoided, and that, on the other hand, there might be a little more units of local self-government with the very impact of these same units and on the possibility of naturally supervised effective use of exactly space and content in the future. For the sake of a topic that is extremely complex and actually affects every segment of life because it represents a national treasure and management of the same is actually our ability from preserving the same space to managing the same. This would be our ability to place space under the necessary conditions in the function of economic growth. In addition to the well-placed National Strategy for the Conservation and Development of Space, which I believe are in the best faith so far, all Croatian governments have tried to do what is the way it is, I believe that many in this chain are a little guilty, but we will not look for guilt but what is relatively well preserved in relation to the environment brings some balance and some possible optimal management at the expense of the very place where it is created and that is the unit of local self-government. Of course, it makes it impossible for us to have such a decentralised system of space management and content in space. It is clear that integrated space management must be established but also monitored from the state level in addition to relatively well as I have already said preserved space there are still some problems and I will pull the parallel and I believe that here some will be found in relation to that. For example, the spatial-plank of many plans, so the documents had to be modified and complemented by many because they were actually in a completely different function than the plans for the overall development of local self-government units were not harmonised and they were brought very, very long I don't know for what reason. Is for the reasons of some investors who should have actually come in transparently and logically to the local self-government unit and proposed their own investment plan, but counting on spatial-planned documents from... For example, my unit of local self-government, one of the fundamentals brought for six years, began in 2006. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They had to go to changes and additions. Look, there's a DPU, so I'm an entrance of 130 thousand squares by the sea, a newly formed particle. So for two and a half years, it takes almost three years to legalize this space of enrollment to finally report such a particle to the entrance. It's an investment, there, and it's got some jobs. Of course, there's a strong story that's made it impossible for the county spatial planning facilities, so share, literally share. Some in the county helped us, so around the structure, but now I'm talking about institutions that are making spatial plans. That's the way it is, and that's why I have the evidence, of course. That's what happened to Brodotrogir anyway, here's what I'm talking about with my local self-government unit. So, this one... lasted more than four years, more than four years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It started actually 4, 5, it started working only in 2009. This one before that because of the dense construction and one large investor who broke down, unfortunately in Split, I do not like it, I wish she had worked in Trogir. But you know, you just need to be transparent and open when something is invested and you need to come with clean and open resources. On the other hand, this must in no way be broken across citizens of the city, nor through units of local self-government. Nature parks, another option that we simply took away. We have two parks of nature, one is... Ornithologically and the other one is one of the collections, so let me tell you, here's a history in the small one with a collection in northeastern Europe, the largest number of plants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] See, that's how they run county, county nature parks. We asked both the state and the county to transfer right to us, because there's nothing going on there. It's a conclusion, it's a resource that's not being used. The infrastructure in local self-government units has no efficiency, except for the unclassified roads the city can manage, in fact you have through urban settlements crossing state roads and county roads. We can't do anything here, I don't know why it's like that and when it's actually going to change, because eventually I understand that the county and the state have control up to the entrance to the city settlement. In the end, nothing can be done on that road even if the local self-government unit wanted to finance it itself. Local self-government units have no tools and under the control of the state, no construction inspections, no market inspections, no environmental protection inspections, nothing. Using mineral ore we recently talked about when it was the Mining Act, I'm not gonna talk about us having 2 square miles of 13 research fields of mineral raw materials, 3 quarrys and other things. And you know, the local self-government unit has $400,000 a year, I'm talking about mine, I'm not talking about others. That's a little bit, nothing to me. On the other hand, here's what they told me for protection, or for the commission that it's who in Tuscany, that it's nice to see and that here we take tourists there by train around these holes, we just have to make a road first. Rebuilding and illegal construction, which is now current, of course slightly and politically many use for promotional purposes, up to 0 kuna, without talking about the coastal belt. It is important to note here that units of local self-government before, in relation to reports of competent inspections, which, which are very many, will, and as your colleague Komadina said earlier, the communal directors are nothing to you. In fact, they do not react, and they encourage others in devasting certain areas. We, for example, had in 3 years about 577 as a local self-government, application. Plans on waste management and environmental protection are a particular problem. I have to point out here for the Split-Dalmatia County, someone mentioned... Su, it's a dead story of it having nothing to do with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to have a processing strategy and work there, who's going to pay me, say, at another regional center to drive the trash there, only citizens. On the other hand, on the other hand, here, I hope that this MBO strategy will succeed and that in some way power on the existing, of course protected dumps, turn the dumps into a process and that the rest that can't be processed will be taken care of somewhere. I have to be in a hurry because time is flying. The protection of cultural goods is a segment within which there is something to be said, especially in my unit of local self-government. You know one of the most beautiful Renaissance courtyards, the Chipik Palace, which has been closed for 20 years. St. John's Church. Barbara's little basilica is one of the oldest and most beautiful in Europe is a cement warehouse. And if I wasn't to say that there's an area being dug up in front of the cathedral itself in Trogir Square, I don't know why, what I'm looking for, oil, I guess. In front of the Church of St. Dominika on the waterfront was not, since 2003 he should not have, despite all the tests, and research should not have made a square because we got a stone in donation, just that slate from those research fields and quarrys that I mentioned earlier. Real estate, there's a problem and space that's owned by the state, and there's every chance that it won't work. Some have declared the state unspective, but it hasn't transferred them yet to the use of local self-government units. I hope so, because some of them are right in places that can bring a terrible amount of money. Morh's properties, which often hold the best positions in the area, respecting the MORH's function, are now going back to what counterpart Vukusic said earlier, and this was known by the former economy ministry. We had, say, a cruise supply port that was directly based on agro, a processing and agricultural industry. So here we have interest in that too, but we simply can't bring them into function especially not as a unit of local self-government, and why shouldn't the state? And in the end, here I have managed to regain consciousness, and in the end people are fine where they feel good and safe, where they can have a safe home and pay and the possibility of self-confirmation. Which wouldn't be on our coast or in Slavonia, or I don't know anywhere in our territory of mountain Croatia, or in northern Croatia, anywhere. We have resources, we have national treasures, we have an economy, they're looking for a better life, it's a trend, let's stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32470	Thank you very much. Replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32471	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's a respected colleague of yours, and many others here have often mentioned local self-government and mentioned a lot of the problems facing local self-government. That's exactly what I agree with you guys. I don't think it's that much of a problem with making spatial plans for local self-government, but it's more of a problem for those services to be controlled. You mentioned here on several occasions an inspection. One of the colleagues mentioned earlier are public officials who report and I'll say that communal directors are not the ones who have neither the authority nor the obligation to report illegal construction or construction without plates marked, etc., that this is a job that someone else needs to do. And we are definitely in the local self-government day-to-day watching the devastations, watching the lawlessnesss, watching how the services don't work even when we report it, then they tell us exactly what home number is, where they're being held because some times and the streets are too long, so it's hard for them to find out where something illegal is going on, so I don't think that to edit the situation in space, it's very important to engage and find the services that do this job, because if they were hired, then they wouldn't have so much trouble with illegal construction or anything else, they shouldn't legalize it, but would have been stopped at the time when it took place.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32472	Replication response, Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32473	My dear colleague, I can actually support what you said, but there's only one supplement that I have to lean on, we've been waiting for them, we've been sending pictures, photos, videos, and we've been waiting, we've called them, and then we've told them we're boring them and we're making a problem for them. That's what this is all about, and it's been happening for the past few years, and that's the truth. I can't say that someone from the government is now guilty or guilty of it, but it's the one there and someone who wasn't watching him. That's what this is all about, as someone didn't oversee the adoption of a plan that was eventually determined that someone paid the corporal and didn't want to pay people the rest because he was doing business on the other side and then people waited six years to articulate their interests through a spatial plan. That's it. And on the other hand, since you've already given me time to thank you very much. I have to say as far as spatial planning is concerned, it is, of course, as you yourself know, you come from a local self-government pure economy and must be leaned not only on the overall development plan but also on the possibilities through the budget, which the budget can only be given as a tool to open the door to possibilities. Unfortunately, sometimes some companies make plans, you know it well, some people who work at 4% as a tractor or otherwise, and also others who actually make decisions that are later fatal for the whole area. That's the kind of area you have on my islands, and I have one in a third and two small ones. It's a paradise on earth for you compared to what we're going to talk about in relation to other countries. But the fact that it happens is not to encourage others in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32474	It's time for the debate, Zeljko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32475	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to commend the minister and staff of the ministry and all those who participated in the creation of this basic document as you have called it, that the Croatian Parliament can finally debate in a state of space. A comprehensive document of 315 pages and it would be good if a summary had been made although I am aware that this was very difficult given the tendency to try as much data as possible and as many aspects given an image of the current state in space. He told his colleague Klarin when he spoke on behalf of the club that there was total chaos in the space and it was true but only partial. So we have partial spaces that are very interesting for and private investments regarding personal nature and investment regarding investments in manufacturing activities, especially as regards coasts, small hotels, large hotels. However, the fact is that I particularly fell into some kind of interest, which is that we have 4,68% of the built area, that we have 6,74% for construction, and that actually, in that reserved space, 6 and a half million inhabitants can live. When we talk about having 8.36% protected area with national parks and parks, that 47% is an ecological network, so 36.99% of the netive space in Natura 2000 then I see the light at the end of the tunnel and I think we can save a lot of the space from the devastation. The government prepared a document or prepared a document on the development of tourism by 2020 the other day, and then when you look at the spatial plans of the local self-government unit from the county along the coast, then you see that we actually have about the design project documentation prepared in some way in a zone where it can be built, means with a good organisation of the office for construction and spatial planning of large cities or counties to be quick and experimental when granting permits and raising this climate for investment. I think we can get a good result. What's worrying is that we have a hundred thousand acres of economic activity. And the other day there was Minister Maras saying that two-thirds of business or economic zone were actually empty and that the ministry invested huge money in building infrastructure but there was no movement. I personally believe that this money has not been dropped but that in the future investment in business or economic zones it is necessary to take a good look at where the additional investment that is missing in the local self-government unit is to be invested first in order to turn it around and put it into some kind of economic function as soon as possible. And I think that's the point. I think the picture is much better than it was ten years ago and the very information that the minister here today made that all municipalities and cities and all counties have built spatial plans, gives us the right to talk about it, that there are 904 urban plans that were made and that there are over 700 of them in making that and that people have realized that whoever plans to build space that actually rules and that's the key to the whole problem. In principle, the environment itself is not much spoken about in this document. The problem of waste disposal that you ministers have mentioned, but the environmental problem itself is not much spoken about because each year they reported on the state of the environment unlike these other conditions that we did not receive information. What's very important and he's talking about it is a couple of colleagues of the Hrgs and these are inspections. With this Law on Legalization of Objects, we have sent a message that we want to fix the situation in space, that we will not have tolerance towards the lawless builders. We gave people a chance that, for one reason or another, they were illegally building to legalize their facilities. However, I assure you from experience without an inspection organisation we will not have results because there we have in one period reduced the rapid number of construction inspectors and instead of inspectors working on the ground they sat in offices and worked exclusively on the application. And it just made things worse in space, that's one thing. The second thing I'm saying now is the second or third time in this assembly, the municipal directors of cities and municipalities must be auxiliary building inspectors. We need to find a legal solution to get rid of it if all of us who work in local self-government units that are mayors and mayors want order in our area, we want to be paid a municipal contribution, we want to be paid a communal fee, we want to have clean relations after that. Every intervention of our communal director is ridiculed in the field is he has no authority, and cooperation with local self-government units and inspection services which is by the way the centre for Krapina-Zagorje County in Varazdin, of course, can then not be at a good level. And it doesn't always have to be saved at the state administration if we often talk, we have a large number of employees who don't do anything, etc., but when the party comes to the office of the state administration or any office it doesn't care how many people work there, it interests him to get the paper or document he cares about as soon as possible. And an even more important question means building inspections. So I urge the minister to think about it and, together with Minister Bauk, to find a solution in which the municipal directors could become an auxiliary building inspector. And of course, once again, I support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32476	Replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32477	Thank you, Vice President. Here's colleague Kolar you said the situation in space was better than 10 years ago, probably, 10 years ago, but certainly not a little further back in the past because we had before that system when cities or municipalities, local self-government units had urban offices and they could have planned. And then it's all handed over to private entrepreneurs who were then able to do things differently and meet the wishes and demands of various influences on the side of making spatial plans, so you know well as a local official that often we had problems with those we paid when we brought spatial plans because they often beat aside. So there were those situations, too. And what you said about the communal directors, I agree, let's give them powers, but then let's get rid of the building inspections we don't need then, we don't need a double system. If local self-government is going to do that job, let it do it, but then we don't need a double system. Either let's start these services and start doing our job so we don't have to re-establish in 20 years or in 10 years we have to legalize illegally built buildings like we're doing right now, and we've watched them build and no one reacts, and now they're all the wrong citizens. Well, it's not just their fault, 50% of the citizens, 50% of the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32478	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32479	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I couldn't agree with you. I think the abolition of a building inspection is the same as it is under the department's jurisdiction and the transfer of everything to local self-government so it wouldn't be a good solution. The communal directors as auxiliary building inspectors would have the opportunity to stop lawless construction and report it. So we wouldn't be doing anything in administrative proceedings. We would thus get the signs at the very beginning to prevent illegal construction. And many times it happened that the object was actually built from the foundation to the roof without the inspection coming to it. If the communal directors had the power to report, it wouldn't have happened because they're practically on the ground every day. And I don't think you should mess with pears and apples. In any case, the power of them to register, that they can currently give a solution to the construction ban, report to the inspector who will continue to conduct the administrative procedure, and I think that would be a very, very good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32480	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Marijan Skurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32481	Mr. President. I absolutely agree in this part with my colleague Kolara's exposure. In fact, we really need to define how we can define this responsibility, that pyramid of responsibility. That this is the responsibility of the state of affairs in the area only at the level of ministries, inspection services and even at the lowest levels of us in the local part or is indeed the responsibility of us in the local area which we do know and we are immediately present and we see what is happening to us in the space or we will always, as we have so far, seek some kind of solution from the ministries, or inspection services. What I personally think really is that at the local level, municipal reding should be more effective, but it is a matter of their powers and, above all, efficiency. Here I can tell from the experience of our neighbours in Slovenia where he doesn't have utility offices, but their situation in the space is very efficient and well arranged. An anecdote where we asked, so how do you edit it says very simply. They've got inspection services, and if he's doing anything, he's digging, and then he comes up to ask him what you're doing. There's an answer if, as with us, I plant potatoes, it says well, but if you're planting potatoes, don't do it with a bagger. And then the second day after that, he comes into control, and if he still plants potatoes with a bagger, then right now he gets an effective solution to what he's doing, etc. That's what we want to stress, we need to be effective, have good powers and competences to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32482	Replicate response, Honorable Representative Zeljko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32483	Thank you very much, dear colleague Marian, for agreeing with me. However, we need to create a system, a system that will work and that inspection operations that are in the jurisdiction of individual ministries, that should be harmonised with the powers that local self-government units have. We cannot behave, and this often happens to us as two sides of the body and there is no communication between the services supervised by the Ministry and the services supervised by local self-government. So before us is the time we have to use to create a system and at some point when we create a system and when we create the values of that system then we won't have any more problems on the ground. By the time people realize that the rule of law works, that if they violate that they will be sanctioned for it, that no one will see through his fingers, then it doesn't matter whose authority there will be a single procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32484	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and respected MPs, according to the usual order, we should now stop the debate and approach the establishment of a new agenda, i.e. the addition of the agenda and the vote of the processed, debated agenda points. Dear colleagues and colleagues, can we continue to discuss the 2008-2012 report on the situation in the Republic of Croatia? There's an individual debate coming up. Now it's the honourable representative Ivan Shantek. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. Then it's Boris Blazekovic. He's not here either. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. Now it's Hansel Mandic's turn. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32486	... a document which is also essential for regional development and for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and for many significant institutions of the Republic of Croatia. [[Specially enabled.]] That is why I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, especially those who produce this very important document, on the successful presentation of the real situation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for 2008-2012. What is also important is that this document contains data relating to 160 sources of the Republic of Croatia. What I would say at the end in front of the HNS Club is that this document would be applicable and that the 2013-2017 status report should certainly be better quality work on the information system, monitoring the space that should be united for the entire Republic of Croatia and which would be uniform and useful for all. We believe in the HNS club that the funds needed for this way of information and the establishment of the information system should not be scrapped because the area next to forests and land and water is one of the greatest treasures that the Republic of Croatia has and therefore must be better preserved in this way. In addition, it also needs to be combined in one place, monitoring the structure, using the land. In addition to what I said under point 1, I would also say that the technical equipment and information system that is in the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, as well as in the Spatial Planning offices in the counties, that these systems are not sufficiently harmonised and that surely in the time that is ahead of us in that section must be done significantly. In addition, in the case of offices for spatial planning and administrations, more important attention must be given to the functioning of inspection services that would initially apply and comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. What is important is that in this very high-quality material we have several chapters, now that I would not talk about them all, about spaces, features, the administrative and territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, I would touch one very important indicator, and these are democratic indicators that say that the annual natural growth of the population is -9822 people. This is warning, and this means that in 2011, a city of 10,000 people disappeared, and when we add up the migrations that the Republic of Croatia loses in the eye of the year -4165 people, when we add up those people who emigrated and migrated, we come up with worrying data, so in one year 15000 people in the Republic of Croatia are missing. These are alarming data not only for spatial editing, these are alarming data for the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, some of the colleagues mentioned the issue of entrepreneurship zones. The issue of entrepreneurship zones, surely these zones if they are in operation they use the development of the Republic of Croatia, and they can say that a large number of zones of several, over 400 zones, can say that a large number of zones are not functional. And surely in the time ahead, it is a matter of changing agricultural land to construction areas, that attention should be taken into account and special attention because land or agricultural areas cannot be compensated if they are once lost. So I would ask when planning in space that only those zones that are ready and that will give results are put into operation. There is also talk about the structure of the surface in the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32487	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32488	Here I go. I'd just like to say that this agricultural land in private hands is 31.8%, and that state property is about 16%, of which 11% are unprocessable agricultural areas. So once again, I would like to commend this quality report on the state of the room and I can't wait to get this, once again congratulations to all of these 160 who gave their data because this document is of great benefit to the future of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32489	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the representative of the motionary, respected Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, final word. Here you go. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32490	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I really do need to point out again in the end the basic elements and basic features that are in this state of affairs report in the space. Namely, the first class of the Architectural Faculty of Objects called Spatial Planning begins with words that say that space is inalienably good. The second sentence says that they blame the planning decisions made by one generation for the next 100 years, all future generations, and that is indeed true. This report on the state of the space is so truly extensive and large document only for reasons that since '99. This Croatian Parliament has not delivered a report on the state of our space. And why is his role and importance? Not only because in one place you have this large amount of data that you can then use for everything but the importance of knowing what is happening to you in space, what changes are happening to the planning of space, what changes are happening to the infrastructure and that in time you can possibly wrong direction or wrong decision to reshape and make changes and move in the right direction. We spent this year at the ministry, we didn't spend it. We used it in quality to make a report on the state of the room. I'd say we've made arrangements, like before the winter season, you make arrangements in the closet to see how many winter coats and boots or shoes you need. That's what we did from the aspect of our profession. We've made arrangements. On paper, we showed us what the state of space was, showed us what was wrong with what happened over the last 15 years, so I don't say any more and what direction we should go on. Once again, I stress and repeat what has been repeated and said in the debate. They were really bad decisions. When you look at numbers, then you see that we actually have quite a good use of construction areas. But we certainly have in the room a series of cancer wounds. We have cancer wounds that were devastated by illegal construction that intensified at the end of the last century. So we have these remains in the '80s, in the 1990s, but also in the '90s, so since '95, '96. Furthermore, illegal construction has been intensified, especially when it comes to coastal areas. The cancer of the wounds resulting from the exploitation of mineral raw materials, but we will have the future that we will need to do, which is to do a future analysis of spatial plans and redesign. Because if you have a planned economic zone in space for 20 years, if 20 years is not only not started with municipal equipment, but someone has done nothing wrong, it means it's a planing decision and it needs to be redesigned. So this report shows that when we talk about squares we have quite enough squares and for the existing population and someone said there and some of the new ones that we're going to introduce we have quite enough surfaces when we're talking about economic areas, but we certainly don't have until the end planned, and in the future we're going to have to do the redesign of what we have, not increase, not increase the squares because what's worst that can happen to us is to leave these zones as it is and we know that they can't be consumed and we're starting some new zones. That's not the point of planning. The point of planning is something else. This report on the situation in space for us as the Ministry and Government of the Republic of Croatia needs it because it will be the basis for a new strategy of spatial development, which I deeply hope will come before this distinguished House of Parliament in some year where we will see what the new strategy of the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia, where the Republic of Croatia sees it through its counties and cities and in what sense should be developed. This report will benefit from the development of a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia. What few people probably know, know those who do this profession that I do. The Republic of Croatia is one of the few countries in the area of Europe that does not have a state-run space development office. Since '97. I'm sorry there's no opposition counsel here, '97. The law made it clear how and under what conditions a state institution should be established. The State Department here we are now in 2013 not established. We'll start it. We got funds in the budget. We'll start it. We've started our activities, and that, I'm deeply hoping for a month, two of us are already formalizing. We don't need new spaces or new people, but we need a state institution that will then deal with the strategy of the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia that will be in one place and unite all the data we will get from the field. The state of the room report doesn't lie. It shows the situation as it is. There were some remarks that the figures were like this or like that. You can see the text and you'll see there's not a single piece of information that's been put inside that we didn't refer to the source. So we have the data sources of those who were the latest, most powerful. When we talked, or when it comes to economic elements, we got it from the Center for the Monitoring of the Macro-Economics. So, everything, we've referred absolutely to each data. You have where we got it, which we referred to. In one place, all the data is combined because all of this data is important to us and for defining what we have, but also in what direction we should go in the future. So, what I can really promise from this place and what I said in the introduction, and that is, we are already going to go in preparation to print a book, we are going to deliver the book to you all and I am deeply hoping that to you all who are participating and who are coming from certain municipalities and cities will use for thinking and thinking in which direction the development of certain municipalities and cities should go. Because if our municipalities and cities develop well and are going in a good direction, then we can see the result and the county in both the country and the country. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-15-0.u32491	Thank you, too. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Report on the situation in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the situation in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012. Please make a statement. Who's to accept this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find that the conclusion has been accepted by most votes and 87 votes in favour and 21 with a abstention.
