ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42260	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We continue with the work of the 8th session and so on - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 379 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the proposal will be explained by Deputy Economy Minister Mr Allen Leveric. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42261	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. The current Public Procurement Act of 1 January 2012 improved the implementation of the public procurement procedure in the Republic of Croatia. Certain barriers have been removed and economic operators have been facilitated by participation in public procurement procedures, transparency has been increased and analyses show positive effects of an improved legal protection system. However, the application of the Public Procurement Act is directly affected by the amendments to certain laws in other areas. It is therefore important to point out, for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Public Procurement Act, the new Penal Code and the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, which took effect from 1 January 2013. The list of offences under the Public Procurement Act of 1 January 2013 becomes incompatible with the relevant provisions of the Penal Code and thus there has been a discrepancy with the relevant acquis of the European Union. The entry into force of the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation also introduced certain novels with a significant impact on the application of the Public Procurement Act and the way to date to determine the circumstances of the non-judgment of economic operators and persons authorised to represent them. Therefore, the primary objective of adopting this law is to ensure compliance with the new provisions of the Criminal Law and the relevant rules of the European Union. Provisions relating to the mandatory grounds of exclusion of competitors or tenderers if economic operators or persons are authorised to represent them are legally convicted of certain offences shall be brought in line with the highlighted laws in the area of justice. The possibility of issuing a specific conviction to contracting authorities containing limited data from the criminal record shall be introduced. These provisions will remove another administrative barrier and additional cost for economic operators because the new form of declaration does not require a public notary to be verified, while at the same time allowing the contracting authorities to verify the actual data given in the statement through a direct check in the criminal record. Accordingly, the implementation of the procedure will be further directed towards the adoption of a new, more modern approach to public procurement developed at European level, reflecting as much as possible the reduction of administrative barriers and the demand for a large number of documents. One of the significant elements contained in the proposals for the new Directives has been identified by additional mandatory elements of electronic procurement, mandatory electronic publication, electronic access to competition documentation and electronic delivery of offers. Since the first two elements already apply in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to ensure that the electronic supply of tenders is applied, a large number of amendments and additions to the applicable law relate to technical adjustments that will allow the introduction of its mandatory application. In the implementation of the procedure, it was observed that the contracting authorities in certain cases did not comply with the provision on the obligation to provide clarifications to competition documents requested by the economic operators, and therefore the need for a clear definition of the relevant provisions and the addition of the possibility of legal protection in the event of non-compliance with this obligation by the contracting authorities. It is pointed out that the implementation of the law has shown ineffective long-term practice by which the contracting authorities are obliged by reason of formal errors, shortcomings, ambiguities, refusal of a more favourable or better quality offer, i.e. to exclude a quality bidder, for example when the tenderer forgets to attach a particular document requested by competition documents or deliver it in the wrong form. We estimate that this approach does not achieve the principle of economicism and that no value for money is obtained, and that part requires access to certain amendments to the legal provisions. This proposal therefore introduces an amendment to the part which provides for the possibility of correcting exclusively formal shortcomings in the left-over offers during their review and evaluation. This will allow the contracting authority, when reviewing and assessing the offer, to request the bidder to explain or complete the document which he left out in his offer or delivered in the wrong form and the like due to a formal error. By introducing this option, the contracting authority will have the opportunity to make a choice between a number of offers, which will ultimately allow the selection of the best bidder for the conclusion of the contract. The proposal for a law makes it more clear that provisions relating to the exemption that contracting authorities may apply to the conclusion of a contract with legal persons owned by them. In addition to the highlighted key novels during the application of the applicable Public Procurement Act, a space for a better definition, i.e. technical changes to a number of provisions, has been observed through continuous communication with the contracting authorities and economic operators, in order to ensure additional efficiency in the implementation of the procurement procedure. The existing practice in the application of the offer community institutes is respected, and it is therefore determined that a joint offer must specify which part of the public procurement contract will be executed by an individual member of the offer community and direct payment shall be prescribed to each member of the community if they do not determine otherwise. In practice, reserved contracts have shown that safety workshops cannot carry out a certain part of the contract on their own and are given the opportunity to give the subcontract of up to 20% of the subcontracted subcontractors which do not meet the conditions for protection workshops. Changes are clarified during the execution of the public procurement contract which are authorised and do not require the implementation of a new procurement procedure such as legal follow-up, pre-planned changes and changes to the smaller scope. In accordance with the needs identified in the practices relating to the execution of the contract, in particular construction works, the possibility of modifying the subcontractor during the execution of the public procurement contract, with the possibility for the contracting authorities to verify the instructions of the ability. It shall also determine the exemption from the rules of direct payment to the subcontractor where, for justified reasons related to the specific conditions of execution of the contract, this is not applicable and this is the case in the case of an energy efficiency improvement service. In order to speed up and increase the effectiveness of the appeal procedure, the proposed amendments in this section will shorten the time limit within which the State Commission will need to make a decision. The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act will bring into line with those laws and provisions of the EU acquis relating to the list of offences taxively listed in the Public Procurement Act itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42262	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Đuro Popioč.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42263	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Deputy Associates. So here we have a set of laws primarily aimed at harmonising directives, so here are the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. And it should be said, of course, that the very importance of public procurement and everything that all those who are bonds of such a procedure mean for the national economy is certain that all circumstances relating to procedures, infrastructure, obligations and public procurement themselves need to be understood. So, at the annual level in Croatia according to statistical information, the public procurement office itself is worth more than 26 billion per year. And that in itself says how much this segment really has been and will be in the future important for the national economies, and especially that the practical and EU market in the whole context of public procurement is opening up for our economies. And it will be of great importance, therefore, that so far our entire economic system has been skillful in implementing itself when reporting to public tenders, so surely it will be successful or unsuccessful in the public procurement processes announced by EU Member States. However, it should be said that many, of course, were extremely good at protecting the domestic market and the domestic economy with special invisible mechanisms within the public procurement system and it was extremely difficult to penetrate the system from other countries. But that is why it is important, therefore, that everything relating to public money, as regards the consumption of the state and all those required under this law respect public procurement mechanisms to participate in the maximum of domestic services and domestic products. And therefore, it is also important how public procurement is done in practice and whether it has stimulating or discriminatory mechanisms in relation to the domestic economy. We are at the door of the EU. Of course, and everything that has been done so far in the public procurement system, so this practice is more than a dozen years long and it has been harmonized over time and all those who are bonds of public tendering and those who have been participating in it have had the opportunity through this series of years and to feel both bad and good and the laws and barriers themselves, but of course also the procedures and institutions themselves. For public procurement, of course, certain emotions are always connected, so primarily about corruption and indeed all those involved must have clear and defined procedures, defined controls, defined procedures and unequivocal case-law. And it is therefore good that the system is improving precisely on the basis of those experiences that we have gained by applying these laws ourselves. Therefore, the basis for the adoption of this law as well as the amendments to the EU directives and the amendments necessary to comply with the new provisions and the Criminal Law, the Law on the Consequences of Legal Conviction, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation and the Law on Postal Services. As regards EU legislation, therefore, the introduction of additional mandatory elements of electronic and public procurement, e-publishment, electronic access to competition documentation, electronic supply of offers and requests for participation, i.e. the implementation of the entire procedure through an electronic public procurement advertiser, which will make it easier to apply, and the client does not have to develop its own IT platform when it goes all the way through this unique system. It is a good change, a good step, and I believe that this will continue to enable interested people who will participate in the public procurement process to be both more efficient and up-to-date, and of course more prepared for possible public procurement applications across the EU. What is also interesting are the changes relating to the experience in the past period, as mentioned here in Article 18. The Public Procurement Act allows the contracting authority to request the tenderer to explain, within a reasonable period of 5 days, or to complete, a vague document or one which has not previously delivered, a number of bidders and a final selection of the best bidder between a number of tenders in order to further ensure the effectiveness of the public procurement process. As also stated in the proposal's assessment of the state of play for the adoption of the law. These proposed provisions allow the submission of documentation after the prescribed deadline and closure of tenders which ultimately becomes a convenience for those tenderers who have not been able for some reason to meet even the formal criteria which, according to applicable practice, are in some way the first criteria for selection in the selection process. Of course, it can be good, if it is a good intention, but given the possible creativity of both the contracting authorities and the bidders again in any case should be taken into account for the possible possibility of abuse. It is also stated that the conduct of a public tender should not give a discriminatory effect or represent a favourableity, allowing these amendments to the law to further require the tenderer to supplement the documentation. The proposed amendments and additions seek to create the possibility to conclude different criteria for selecting the best offer, such as selecting the best bidder according to the quality criteria and from the text of the proposed amendments and supplementing Article 92, do not result in any unambiguous reference to the delivery of clarifications or the completion of the documentation on only some of the preceding models of the selected bidders or all tenderers participating in the bidding process. What, then, puts individual bidders in an unequal position, given the fact that they have already met the formal conditions set out in the tender notice within the prescribed time limits. Furthermore, it should, of course, be cautious in the formulation and category, which means a better quality bidder and a long-term application of the legal provisions implementing the procurement procedure imposed the economic viability criteria of the lowest price as the basic criteria for selecting the best offer, i.e. the most favourable offer for a simple reason and that is the reason for transparency. Of course, many countries have practically consumed the same practice and have tried to eliminate so on in different ways. dumped offers, i.e. the most favourable economic price, i.e. the most favourable price but does not mean the most favourable bidder, and this is the continuous and constant fight and the need at the end of the additional improvements and adjustments so that the highest bidder and the highest bidder would, at the same time, not the cheapest service provided and the highest quality service, and nevertheless the one that is the client that has given the most favourable offer in terms of the lowest price not to come under the influence of any potential audits, investigations or suspicions that he has done something wrong. And of course we are aware that the most favourable price, the lowest price often meant precisely choosing importers, mostly poor quality goods or the worst suppliers of certain service services. In particular, we are witnessing some problems related to public works in the building, i.e. investment in the public sector where the cheapest bidder is simply chosen. Finally, there are problems and the one who orders and the one who has to do this because at the prices he has offered, it was clear at the very beginning that this is impossible. Here is, of course, one part of the comment that can be made at this point regarding the Public Procurement Act. And it is also important to say that we have seen that this law in one part would have to be brought into line with the Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, and therefore we will propose an amendment to add words in Article 15(3) of Article 15(1) and reads as follows: "Operators may reserve the right to participate in procurement procedures for competitors, namely bidders who employ at least 51% of people with disabilities in relation to the total number of employees." Therefore, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Employment of Persons with Disabilities is also envisaged to employ 51% of people with disabilities. I therefore suggest that you also consider the possibility of accepting this amendment. Thank you very much. We'll pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42264	Thank you. The replica has Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42265	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a representative of the Poppie when he was talking about public procurement procedures, so when he spoke about multi-annual practice of the economy, you also mentioned emotions. So you immediately connected the word "corruption" to that. Of course, I too have developed constant emotions, even constant memories. Anyone who didn't immediately think of HAC and some other public companies, companies that are here and through the public procurement process, could benefit themselves, were more skilled than the rest of the economy, all in time and in your government. And now, no matter how much this has caused direct damage to me, I am far more interested because later on you were talking about the best bidder, imagine how much this has caused because of opportunism I ask nicely, and practice that it was generally not the best bidder that was chosen but the most frequently cheapest. Which means we know from practice that he's not the best. This indirect damage is difficult to measure. I don't know if anyone calculated it in Croatia, but believe me, it's the consequence of what you're talking about, including these emotions, corruption, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42266	The answer to the replica of Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42267	Participants in the public procurement of colleagues, of course, can agree with you as you have obviously agreed with me in some parts, are among other things many units of local self-government and, of course, all the companies communal to which these units of local self-government and manage. And it wouldn't be good if I started counting here and looking at which units is which option in power. Always and no one is likely any political infrastructure excluded from the potential and possible events that you have listed in the public procurement system, so getting deeper into that politicisation wouldn't be good. However, I also said that it is important to continue and constantly on the basis of practices and to grind regulation just so that things that we are aware have happened in the past, that often because of the choice of the lowest price, the least, the most unquality service, the bofl goods, and often the inability to perform certain works themselves. And I agree with you that often the damage in that case is when selecting such ordermakers is multiplely larger than possibly some kind of fear that because of a higher price, and more quality goods someone would not have fallen under any suspicion that he was a participant of any corrupt acts. That's why it's good to keep making these changes like this... environments for this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42268	On behalf of the club of HNS representative colleague Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42269	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed deputy with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the new Public Procurement Act which has come into force, i.e. in the application of the 1st of January 2012 there has indeed been a significant improvement in the implementation of public procurement procedures both in this year and in some days of application, the general impression that the newly introduced mechanisms have received a positive assessment from most of the public procurement system participants, primarily of course of the contracting authorities and economic operators. These amendments and additions to the laws concern compliance with the amendments to certain laws in other areas, which relate to the Criminal Law and the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, which took effect on 1 January 2013, and to compliance with the relevant provisions of EU rules. The list of criminal offences for which an economic operator is required to be excluded from the procurement procedure should be amended accordingly, provided that he is legally convicted and that the contracting authorities are allowed to carry out a direct check in the criminal record. This, of course, removes at the same time another administrative barrier and additional costs to economic operators. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 92 of the current law, Article 92 applied as an clarification and completion of documents submitted in accordance with Articles 67 to 74, while this proposal extends the clarification to the elements of the offer in the section relating to the subject-matter of the procurement, which was often the need of the contracting authorities in practice. In addition, Article 95 relating to the verification of the successful tenderer. In practice, in most cases, it was merely an additional administrative burden on both parties and contracting authorities and tenderers and an unnecessary time extension of the procedure under the applicable law. In this proposal, the contracting authority was left with the possibility of deciding whether or not to carry out a verification of the successful tenderer, so while the contracting authority had previously been bound by the obligation. The removal of administrative barriers is also evident through changes which first introduce a wider possibility than the opportunity so far that the client invites the bidder to explain later or complete the documents they have submitted or to submit documents that were to be submitted for the purpose of removing errors, shortcomings or ambiguities as they have been more frequent in practice so far that the contracting authorities have to exclude significantly more quality offers due to e.g. supplied the wrong format of a document. Furthermore, the current mandatory search for the original or certified evidence of the ability of unfavourable bidders to shorten the procedure by 10 days is hereby abolished, but it leaves the possibility that this can be sought if it is possible to do so. In order to ensure an adequate level of competition, it is possible to request references for the execution of the contract and for a period of more than three years for goods and services, or five years for works. It is important to point out the process of adopting new public procurement directives at EU level. One of the most significant elements is certainly the Directive for electronic procurement. These elements relate to mandatory electronic publication, electronic access to competition documentation, electronic supply of offers and requests for participation. Since the first two elements have already been applied or used in our system, electronic data deliveries and requests for participation already exist. Of course, a more significant adjustment of both contracting authorities and economic operators is required there is a key approach to full implementation over a longer period which will enable all participants to have an adequate adjustment time. Thus, one large number of amendments and additions to the applicable law are actually related to technical adjustments that will enable the introduction of mandatory use of electronic supply of offers and requests for participation. Accordingly, the provisions on communication and exchange of information between contracting authorities and economic operators are more detailed in order to establish a gradual dynamic between 2014 and 2016 with the permission of e-delivery and e-delivery obligations. It is also important to say that the prescribed obligations will apply first at national level and therefore through the State Office for Central Public Procurement and only afterwards at the level of other contracting authorities. Now, in this debate, I would also like to draw attention to the changes made by the contracting authority to certain misunderstandings or even the place of possible manipulations and to these subcontractor provisions. Therefore, Article 86 of the current Act is added to the following provision, so I quote: "Extremely, if, for justified reasons related to the specific conditions of execution of the public procurement contract, the provision of the article is not applicable to the contracting authority, it is required in the tendering documents to indicate that there is no obligation to pay the subcontractor directly.". I fear a little too much space has been left here for what is said to be a more free interpretation of this provision because it is known that in the adoption of the new law, a number of lobbys were actually against the introduction of a legal regulation on direct payments under contractors. For the reason that it became in Croatia as we know the practice that subcontractors did not pay in time, that at their expense performers reduced prices, which was actually conditional and... large numbers of cooperatives, especially small craftsmen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, I believe that it may be necessary to consider taxing exemptions in which direct payment is not applicable under the contractors or at least to impose a obligation on the contracting authority to explain the non-applicability of direct payment and therefore to avoid the possibility of this provision being misused. Finally, all amendments and additions made in this proposal are going towards improving public procurement procedures with a permanent objective of increasing economic and efficiency. But at the end of the debate, I have to say that even with the best defined provisions of the Public Procurement Act, there are still major problems in the concrete implementation of the law and, above all, in the section relating to the appeal procedure. I will give a specific example here, i.e. the concession procedure for Varazdin waste. Of course, this is about the Public Procurement Act, however, the appeal procedures, i.e. legal protection, are going according to the Public Procurement Act. So, very specifically, on 29 June 2012, the city of Varazdin publishes a notice of the intention to grant a concession. Following this, a number of company complaints found to be of no legal interest from the first to the last moment of the appeal proceedings. It was only 13 June 2013 that almost a year ago, the State Commission for Public Procurement rejected the appeal, making the decision finally enforceable and the garbage can be taken from Varazdin. So I would also like to ask the motionors, the Ministry of Economy and the State Commission for Public Procurement to propose models and solutions and solutions that would change this possibility, therefore, absolutely catastrophicly conduct the appeal procedure. Because this was specifically about... millions of kunas for waste embalming, if that's that big pile of garbage standing outside the entrance to Varazdin, 30 million kuna of liquid, i.e. fresh waste, and the company that was initially found to have no legal interest succeeds in the whole process of solving Varazdin waste for a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is absolutely a procedure that is not applicable and which is doing great damage to the economy. Here's the gentleman, dear fellow Drinker, saying it's total value, so 26 billion a year. So it's serious business. And in this particular controversies case, it was not only about the great value of the job but also about the potential ecological disaster. So it's about really important things. And I think it should concentrate on the fact that the law changes in terms of this kind of thing really making it impossible. So I've warned of a few things that I consider important, the HNS Club will support amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42270	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42271	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's let me put out the SDP Club's views and, in the introduction, say that, of course, like the previous clubs, the SDP advocates' club will support these changes and additions. Therefore, the area of public procurement is one of the key areas in which the public and private sectors enter into financial interaction. In particular, for the European Union countries where the rules of the institutional solutions for ensuring transparency are further contained in specific parts, in specific directives on legal protection and legal medicines applicable to all types of procurement in the public sector, therefore, classical public procurement, sectoral procurement and procurement for defence and national security purposes. Public procurement rules seek to meet all of those objectives, of course to the maximum extent possible but also seek to prevent corruption and non-transparent bargaining. Since 1 January 2012, therefore, we have a new improved Public Procurement Act and it is a general assessment, an assessment by the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the new Law has not seen significant problems, that they, mainly, have received a positive assessment by both the contracting authorities and by economic operators. By removing most of the administrative barriers, for example by introducing documents in the press and not in the originals, it is significantly easier for economic operators to participate in the procurement process and transparency has been increased through mandatory publication of documents in the open procedure and analyses show positive effects in improving the legal protection system. As my predecessors also said, the opening deputy minister, the new relevant instruments of the European Union replacing the above mentioned ones, and that it has entered into force the new Public Procurement Penal Code, the existing Public Procurement Act becomes incompatible with the relevant provisions of the Penal Code so that it is necessary to bring this discrepancy into line with the relevant acquis of the European Union. And so said the deputy, and so did my predecessors, is both the main and primary goal of passing this law. Similarly, it is necessary to comply with the Law on the Legal Consequences of Conviction, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, which also applies from 1 January of this year, which introduces provisions with a significant impact on the application of this law. Article 13 is replaced by the following: The Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation has introduced the possibility of issuing a specific conviction containing limited data from the criminal record and, where provided for by a special law, in this case, the Public Procurement Act. In accordance with these provisions, the tenderers or competitors in their offer or request to participate shall therefore, according to this new proposal, provide a simplified form of declaration, while giving the contracting authority the possibility but also the authority to verify such data from the competent authority for the purpose of keeping the criminal records, so as to obtain such information, but also the exchange of data with other countries. By opening the market, we also expect bidders from other countries, the European Union, to open up the possibility for the contracting authority to verify that information for any competitor from other countries' competent authorities. Another reason for the change is the way in which the European Union is going to adopt a directive on the introduction of electronic public procurement elements. So with mandatory electronic procurement, with electronic access to competition documentation we also come up with new instruments at least for Croatian practice, which is an electronic delivery of offers and requests for participation. The first two elements are therefore already being applied, and these are electronic supply offers and requests are therefore new elements with us. Since it is a rather technically demanding novelty, it is good for a certain significant adjustment time and therefore for both contracting authorities and economic operators to fully adapt to this law. What my predecessors mentioned, especially Mrs Martincevic, probably the most interesting topic about this law and the additional change, is that long-term practice has shown that customers under current law, therefore because of certain formal errors, shortcomings and ambiguities were obliged to refuse a more favourable and quality offer, exclude a more quality bidder when, for example, the bidder forgot to attach a particular document requested by the documentation for competition or delivered it in the wrong form, so he did not quality-confirm it or the like. And it has been assessed by the promoter that this is not a good solution, that it is, in fact, causing negative economic effects and that it is necessary for me to say so to simplify that principle. give a slightly larger maneuvering space to the customer about the assessment of these documents of course to achieve full benefits and to obtain goods and services in full quality and at the best price. What is important to note, that these conditions and abilities do not apply to all, refer to Articles 67 to 74 of the Law, thus to evidence of legal and business capacity, financial capacity, technical and professional ability of competitors or tenderers. In any case, it is not possible to change the form of the offer, the amount of the price, etc. I think that's quite clear to everyone. Therefore, the contracting authority is given a slightly larger room for manoeuvre, may be asked by the bidder to explain and to supplement a particular document which, due to a formal error, he forgot to deliver in his offer or delivered it in the wrong form. What is particularly important, therefore, is prescribed that such behaviour by the contracting authority should not have any effect of discrimination, of unequal treatment of the tenderer or of the convenience of the individual bidder and that it must be transparent. Therefore, the simplified possible delivery of additional clarifications must be made public and requested in the same way by all tenderers. What else are the novelties of this law, seemingly two technical changes but according to my court, good and important changes. My predecessor also spoke about the offer community institute. It shall be determined how much in the joint offer, which part of the contract in public procurement will be executed by an individual member of the community and shall be subject to direct payment to each member of the community unless otherwise specified by the members of the community. Another possibility, and this is further due to the dynamics of the economy, faster life, faster development and unfortunately the collapse of certain economic operators. We also know about the story of our construction sector and the problems that have lagged behind these months because of the submission of old contracts, the collapse of some economic operators. This law therefore also states that, with the consent of the contracting authority, it is practically his decision that the successful bidder may, during the execution of the public procurement contract, assume the execution of a part of the contract that he previously made in the subcontract or introduce one or more subcontractors, and that their total share must not exceed 30 % of the value of the contract. So a shift in this regard to ensure flexibility. So, finally, the reasons for the law being passed. Consistency with the Penal Code and the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Recording and Rehabilitation in relation to the possibility of determining the circumstances of the non-judgment of economic operators and persons authorised to represent them that have therefore entered into force from 1.1 this year. The amendments and additions therefore provide sufficient time for all necessary technical adjustments and, in particular, the preparation of a platform for electronic advertising of the public procurement of the Republic of Croatia, for the introduction of electronic supply of offers and requests for participation to be provided, thus new momentum on the promotion of electronic business within the public procurement system. The objectives of the amendments I was talking about were also to improve the Institute of Explanation and complete the formal shortcomings in the offers, which will focus the public procurement procedure towards the approach that is based on, therefore, the abolition of these administrative barriers in order to focus the entire public procurement system on what is most important, which is therefore the procurement of goods and services by the most favourable conditions and the full value for money. A certain part of the amendments are therefore also aimed at speeding up the public procurement process itself, in particular the appeal procedure, and at removing certain concerns that certain provisions have in practical application of the Public Procurement Act all with a view to making it more efficient, faster, and to minimise the risk of irregularities. But even the best law cannot prevent colleagues and colleagues from being irresponsible to the public procurement provider himself. Unfortunately, there are many examples in practice. I'm going to say as my predecessor might look back on one of them, which is a good part of our public well-known example of bus and trams in the city of Zagreb, a big job of 60 million kuna that actually went through a few mistakes, and it stuck to its segments of the law completely, at least for now there are data about it. So it was a completely unnecessary subject of public procurement. All European cities, all major European cities mentioned in the construction, so the roof that stands on the tram and bus stands are supplied in cooperation with companies dealing with advertising and postering and those practically within the framework, so their activities along with other benefits provided by the city administration, and for money paid to be advertised on certain public areas, and thus practically builds and maintains the abovementioned vaults. Our biggest city has decided otherwise. When it was, then the mistake was at the beginning. When he went to choose the bidder then he quite visibly decided that only those companies that have experience in purchasing municipal equipment of more than 50 million kuna, which is a pretty big bite for small, medium and even large entrepreneurship. Therefore, it is clear in any direction that the intensities are going and the competition has been given to one of the only bidders who has been recognised that under the communal equipment is actually able to include construction, i.e. tram production. It's about the company that got into trouble today, actually, that's getting up out of it. Our Janko Gredelj who therefore got the job of building a roof on the basis of a reference about having so far built trams, that he... Soon after winning the competition, Janka Gredelja's management of management realized it long before but before applying for the competition he realized that he was unable to produce the above-mentioned vaults and he offered the job to one entirely other bidder. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The offerer did the job far below the technical specifications, but certainly at the price established in the tender itself. Much weaker quality and charged full price. It was still there not to bother you too many Zagrebers know those who participated especially in the city government watch fellow Mesic. So there was still the construction of concrete pedestals, etc. etc. Multiple overpaid. In any case, the epilogue of everything was spent 60 million kunas absolutely unnecessary, and besides being spent today, these canopies are not being maintained and represent on that side a certain mockery of the city. It is clear that the model has been miselected, but the former campaign has been successfully paid, the subject is still collecting dust in the State's Attorney's Office. The culprits and those who have made decisions and continue to sit in their seats, the more they are strengthened by winning the new local elections, but that is already a much wider problem. What I wanted to say to this final thought, forgive me if I may have been a little too personal and perhaps a little bit deviated from the law but that's actually the point of the whole story that, in fact, this law as perfect as I can see from the discussion of the predecessors will be unanimously adopted. It cannot actually prevent and change the relationship of the holder and the responsibility of the client to change their way of conduct. Only by raising public awareness of the fight against corruption can we get far better solutions and we can finally get out of this country on the right track. And I believe that this law is one small wheel in that direction, but I say with the responsibility of all those in the public procurement process from the state to the least local self-government unit is the most important condition of all this. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42272	Thank you very much. On behalf of Croatian Labourers' Club Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42273	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's almost an idyllic situation here when it comes to public procurement. Someone used to say that public procurement when mentioned is associated with corruption. To talk about public procurement is to talk about the history of Croatian corruption in the economy. Public procurement is a sign of equality of corruption. Everything we've done through public procurement has been drained by billions of kunas, dollars, euros, billions. But they didn't just leak through public procurement, through the procurement of girls billions. Hundreds of tragedies could be written about public procurement, for example Shakespeare would have written alive for all time on the basis of how Croatia was doing public procurement. A short time ago, a colleague of Radjenović spoke about the suburbs in the City of Zagreb, but in the City of Zagreb not only the vaults, let's say those steps that were set up in Zagreb I don't know thousands and thousands of steps so that they wouldn't be able to park and now someone thinks it's set up so that people can't park. That column cost you a thousand kuna. When you buy it, 200 kuna buy it for a little bit. Tens of thousands of steps have come to light so someone can put the money in their pocket. Is that reported? It's registered! Has anyone reacted? He didn't react! Corruption everywhere. How do public companies buy cars? In one public competition they published performances of cars, even forgot to download logos, it is a public procurement in Croatian way. And now here we are talking about a text that as a text, this text of the law will change something in public procurement in Croatia. So long as we don't start punishing, so long as we don't introduce honesty into public companies, nothing will happen. Public procurement and public procurement are actually like I said the largest litter of corruption, the largest litter not only of unfair competition and black labour. And when it comes to public procurement, when it comes to public procurement, I'm talking about those competitions, for example. in the building, most of the work is cut off. Most unfair competition is just being put in place by means of a way to disrupt work. These texts are equally dissatisfied with employers and trade unions. However, I heard... that what was almost when I listened to Mr. Drinker that employers were satisfied with this text. They're not employers. For example, at the very beginning of the text says sentences over a year of monitoring its implementation have not seen significant problems, and the newly introduced mechanisms have received a general positive assessment from most stakeholders of the public procurement system, primarily of the contracting authorities and economic operators. The Association of Employers in Construction says it's a lie, it's not true. Because it encourages unfair competition. So it's completely incorrect. I'm going to go on a few specific examples now. For example, Article 9 derogates Article 10. Article 9 states that the contracting authority is obliged to exclude the competitor or tenderer from the procurement process and is now listed in which cases. However, Article 10 states that the contracting authority may exclude competitors. All what is stated in the 9th article can then be applied to the 10th, and this can and does not have to be applied. Article 10 shall relativise order, law and competitiveness. Therefore, we propose that in Article 9(2) which reads unless it has fulfilled the obligation of payment to know when, when the contracting authority is obliged to exclude the competitor or tenderer, it has failed to fulfil the obligation to pay the tax obligations and obligations due to pension and health insurance, unless it is granted, in accordance with specific regulations, to postpone the payment of those obligations. But you know that construction has other than minimum wage, and in order for you to go to the competition you have to bring proof that you paid minimum wage and that you paid minimum wage charges, you have collective contracts, you have classes and you need to, so you should install in the law that anyone competing should bring in certificates that he has met the requirements of collective agreements. So taxes and contributions have to be paid at the agreed salary level because these are the ones you're canceling collective agreements with. What is well regulated in construction, those who do so well know, not just the minimum wage. This law just suggests that the minimum wage is sufficient and encourages new crime, new unfair competition and then, of course, they get jobs that are the lowest with the lowest price because even then there are dozens of subcontractors who cut off workers. So Article 10, it's absolutely certain that public contracting authorities should be excluded. In paragraph 7, a serious professional failure in the sense of unfair competition should also be considered contrary to the relevant rules of collective agreements must be excluded if the collective contract is not respected. This Article shall also apply to Article 67, which is also spoken by the contracting authority, and shall be obliged to exclude the applicant or tenderer from the proceedings. In paragraph 2, it should stand in the same way as the collective agreement. As I said in the construction sector, the collective contract is extended to all employers and pay grade workers, and if this is not respected, unfair competition is encouraged. In any case, this law is a contribution to improving public procurement. It is a contribution to the introduction of order, but the text should fix what I doubt because I know the practice of this government that the government does not listen to what is said in the Parliament, and then more importantly than correcting the text itself is that order should be introduced in practice itself because regulation and practice are most often in Croatia at large. So everything we've been looking at for years, what we've been reading for years, what we've been seeing in the media for years that point to an eclectic violation of public procurement is speaking, and we've seen this in a number of examples last year, in which, for example, there have been competitions for public procurement of cars, and even more are the eyes of competitions that are being discussed for construction works, and in which workers lose and the few rights they have. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42274	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HS colleague Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42275	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, colleagues and fellow MPs. Our club will also support these amendments and additions to the law. It will obviously be a consensus, since it is primarily in the most part on harmonisation with the EU acquis, or with directives. Of course, it is a small remark at the beginning that we could have done it before because in a few days we become a member of the EU. I'm saying this about all the laws that are now further harmonized five to twelve, and I think we've had extra time simply to pass the laws before and, of course, to all those to whom this applies, and to everything can be further adapted. But this, ladies and gentlemen, should be once again a fixed framework for public procurement, in fact, in the fight against corruption but also crime, however, certainly in the fight to strengthen the Croatian economy, so a legally sound framework from the government to local administration units and self-government, as has already been said, so from car procurement to unfortunately various cases that have been discussed here, building public toilets etc. So I mention the most bizarre ones. But I think this is a moment to remind you of what we've done in recent years. In 2008 the Government adopted a strategy for the development of a public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia with the obligation to set up central bodies for the combined public procurement until 2011 I remind you that we did so long ago in fact a year before so when the Central Public Procurement Office was established. What some of the objectives must be, and must be, some of the objectives of both this law and the State Commission and the Central State Office and all others working on these jobs, and related to all the leaders and units of local administration and self-government of the Government as a whole and also to the Croatian Parliament, is to improve public finances management, promote competition, prevent corruption and crime, and I would also say the preservation of the environment, which is one dimension that I would almost dare say completely out of sight and further achieve budgetary savings. When I mention this, let me just remind you of some information that is completely unknown to the Croatian public, although when we talked about them in the past government, they were literally ridiculed and ridiculed, when we talked about the savings that we achieved by uniting public procurement only in a few months. I remind myself in 2010 that in a few months since the central state office worked only on toners and ink, more than 10 million kuna was saved, on the purchase of car 39 million kuna, on fuel more than 22 million kuna per el.energy 1, then in 2011 also in several months at telecommunications services 35 million, on the cleaning services of rooms almost 16, on office material of more than 8 million kuna, on drinking water in bottles almost 2 million kuna. I believe that many of you will remember the mockery that we witnessed just about getting that water through a system of united public procurement. But these numbers I mentioned, and I think that every kuna of budget money is as big as a mountain, too, talk about the fact that through a system of public procurement that is united, which is naturally transparently implemented, can achieve and achieve huge savings. Not only should we always talk about fighting corruption and corruption, but also about real savings from taxpayers' money. And I think that one of the main objectives of this law, that is, to amend and supplement this law, must be that. So allow quick and effective public procurement processes, ensure absolute and complete transparency and repeat by who knows which way of strong leverage in the fight against corruption. I'm going to point out only some provisions of this law that we think should be further considered that we should further discuss this by the end of the debate and that I think the Proposer can do it. Namely, since a new option is being introduced to supplement the message documentation is careful with several exclaimers. Unfortunately, it can, and we have witnessed countless times all of us here and here in the assembly and in other jobs that we did when a small space was opened, when a small crack opened, unfortunately a lot of those who know how to abuse the crack. In that crack to sow seed, plants of corruption that grow rapidly and breeds terribly quickly. So these spaces should be closed or better said not to enable any abuse. We have witnessed unfortunately many times fighting for the recovery of the Croatian economy, precisely the facts, we have had it in shipyards, incredible cases, so but also other companies that the company barely lives, that it falls asleep, that the cooperatives live well. We often witnessed this too many times. As far as Article 39 is concerned, it is good, therefore, a change in the work of the State procurement commission, so it must decide within 30 days of the submission of the complaint. But the question of all the questions is given the experience we have had so far whether it will actually be possible. So far, we have listened to several examples of how much and how anxiously the decision was waiting in some extremely important cases that were important not only for the economy but could potentially have been environmental bombs. And experience also tells us in the complainant that there are those who often complain, especially here's my experience in running the ministry simply to stop some processes. So I'm going to mention one that almost broke the legal obligation primarily in one case of car procurement for 100% of the first group's disabled. So, according to the law, there is such a obligation to get cars for the most disabled every year, and even in the years that I ran the Ministry for it was provided money, it's big budget money, significant taxpayers' funds. Of course, the competition is called, the best and most favourable bidder has been selected, because these are, of course, the cars that must have certain conditions that must be met and because they must be equipped with a cart of 100% disabled people. However, the complainants have actually stopped the process. And then we were in a lot of trouble, getting close to the end of the year, the decision was gone, the threat of not spending that year, the threat of not fulfilling the legal obligation, and, of course, we had what was justified by the great dissatisfaction of the disabled. So I'm also warning you of all the troubles a committee is facing to do its job. And finally something also related to Article 9 but in another way, here is further enhanced and it is good to further strengthen the specifics of who, or whom the contracting authority can exclude, or whom it is obliged to exclude, so all those who are convicted of criminal acts of fraud, receiving, giving bribes etc. However, it is also stated here that if the competitor provided false information in the delivery of documents, however, I mention about this law and in fact all other laws when some people are prevented from entering some space, competition for anything. So I would personally here, and this is my personal remark that I would certainly disable and exclude, in any case, all those whose executives are convicted, for example, of criminal acts of sexual exploitation and child abuse. Because it seems to me that delivering a fake file is less difficult by work than, for example, Those who have proven abuse of children, I certainly mean paedophiles. This applies not only to this law, that one thought perhaps for the future that when we edit our legislation we further understand all the social dangers of those who abuse children. But also the domestic thugs. Finally, I would just like to remind myself that, among other things, in the past government when it comes to public enterprises, we have also made a decision on specific action plans for the fight against corruption that had to be made and implemented by every public company. I don't know what it's like today. Our club will support these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42276	Thank you very much. Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42277	Dear counterpart Kosor, you said in the first sentence, so I immediately reported that this law is in line with EU legislation. We will now produce from day to day laws that comply with the European Union but are not the European Union, I think we will enter 1. In the European Union, you know that when you talk with euphoria that now we are going to change, nothing will happen. Seven changes if we don't change. Yeah. So we have to apply practice, employers are sneezed this way. Those employers who do good business and have such praises to God in Croatia cannot compete equally with the other employers who break, who violate the laws. And what authority does he love? The government always loves these bastards. Especially from his own ranks and looking through their fingers. So you know that the section of the highway is cut down just to be less, only to be more easily manipulated. Nothing we, Romania and Bulgaria have done since they entered the European Union of Crime continues to flourish and have done nothing because they have not changed themselves inside. So we need to start changing ourselves, we need to start changing practice. You mentioned it before in your public toilet debate. So as the rule of law can be deafened, the rule of law does not work with us, so I say if there is no right there is no democracy, if it costs a square meter of public toiletry in the City of Zagreb, there is something wrong. Either it is wrong or it is necessary to replace those who need to process it or should process it. Nothing happened. We encourage the institutions of the state of crime and therefore this is another dead letter on a piece of paper that is imperfect, it is not good because it encourages unfair competition, which is why I spoke because the work and the honest employers, those who do good work, are being cut off, because they cannot compete with those who work hard and at the expense of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42278	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42279	Thank you, dear colleague Vuksic. I did not talk to euphoria about entering the European Union this time, I just mentioned in the context that these are now further amendments that are simply necessary because 1.7 we become a member of the European Union and I said that in the context of my thinking both in the past week and in the laws that we have adopted here, which we have also discussed, which were now in line with the directives, which could have been brought into line with the directives before. This is my observation because it is certain that the law must come into force and that all those to whom it applies, and in fact to all of us, must be further familiar but will be obvious until July 1st. Yes, we will have to change and I will personally be looking forward to joining the European Union because the rules of fiscal responsibility, further to some adherence to the rules, law enforcement, will certainly be one step further for Croatia. We've been in negotiations, that is, doing this hard work where we've invested a lot of power, we've already changed a lot of things, that's true, I think, and I dare say absolutely in the judiciary. But I agree with you that if I understand the essence of what we often conduct controversy here and exchange opinions, there is no key to everything and what is at the heart of everything, and that is social condemnation, rights and true social condemnation of illegal behavior, and that is the essence. When it becomes a general place then our discussions here in the assembly will certainly be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42280	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in the debate of counterpart Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42281	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, no matter how many of us are gone in this assembly, I think it is necessary to conclude that for a country that is on the verge of entering the European Union, which has a sixth quarter consecutive economic downturn, and for five years it will not see economic growth, the Law on Public Procurement is an incredibly important law. However, I think that such a written law actually signals the Croatian economy one indifference to that same economy and an misunderstanding as far as it is in a situation where unfortunately private investments are not or are minimal, when foreign investors are missing and bypassing us, investment or procurement in the public sector which unfortunately still dominates the Croatian economy is terribly important. Now, last week I spoke, and I won't stop talking about how important public administration support is to the Croatian private sector, and this law could also in some way be a tool in this direction. We have also talked about this on the board, but I do not see that we have a new law, that is, these additions that will really contribute to our dealings first and foremost with the most economically favourable offers, that Croatian entrepreneurs can in some way participate equally in those who will emerge more and more from the European Union's space. That's what I'm saying for a few reasons. First of all, Croatian entrepreneurs after 1.7 for several reasons will be in a subordinate position compared to most, which is only because of interest. So we are talking about great differences in competitiveness between Croatian entrepreneurs and foreign ones. Croatian companies are unfortunately still not focused on exports, especially when we talk about products, and then this large Croatian market is also extremely important. The team is more important then procurement in the public sector. Today's debate, however, is dominated by the fear of corruption. He is justified but must not become the only one who motivates the adoption of new laws and, in fact, that fear of this corruption is blocking public administration at all levels to engage in risk, literally risk, that the only parameter that decides in public procurement is the price. Unfortunately, believe me, personal experience is the only criterion in Croatia today. Do you think in Germany public administration and various parts of this administration would drive German cars if it were a price criterion? Or in France to drive French? Well, no, I think that in 2013 for this country is the key parameter of the most economically favourable offer is that it will bring it to the Croatian worker and Croatian entrepreneur. So in direct connection are employment, i.e. Croatian workers and employment workers, which are Croatian entrepreneurs. Now I think we should take care of it and I think we should discuss it seriously. I think we should discuss whether in 2013 a parameter of whether or not someone achieved loss or gain is relevant. Namely Daimler, one of Europe's largest corporations, regularly every 7, 8, 10 years is a loss in business. Loss as well as gain in life, it's an integral part of life, business, if you want in political life, is all about loss as well as gain. Therefore, it cannot be possible that after 5 years of crisis, a loss or gain is a parameter that will decide whether a Croatian company will do any work in the Croatian state. I could speak for a long time now, but I just want to draw everyone's attention, to all of us, that this law is extremely important at the moment, to enter the EU where the public administration has been doing it for decades, and that we must be only able and willing to understand first of all what this moment is where we live, what are the opportunities it opens objectively to the EU, and what are also risks to the Croatian economy after 5 years of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42282	Thank you. Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42283	Dear fellow Milosevic, you have rightly pointed out one fact that is very important in business, which you have said is that Croatian entrepreneurs are in a subordinate position due to interest levels. That's right. Now I'm going to get back to my colleague Kosor who said, I think she is, if I've made a mistake, then forgive me in advance. God forbid Vujcic leaves the Croatian National Bank. God forbid it goes because it is the policy of the Croatian National Bank, which is the policy of continuity that destroys Croatia, Croatia and then the Croatian economy, and everything else and prefers everything that comes from outside and prefers everything that is uncompetitive in the Croatian market, and of course, Croatian businessmen will be uncompetitive because they will have expensive money from our banks, very hard to get cheap money. Just before it was also said to be missing, we discussed this social conviction, public condemnation of crime. But there's also a social conviction missing just like that. So we're trying to basement how we're great patriots, and we don't prove that patriotism in action, and that's exactly how we're supposed to support domestic production, that we should. It's patriotism, and it's not more patriotic to import goods. Well, then it's also said that the lack of these social convictions, however lacks legal convictions, lacks convictions. Only individuals who have fallen asleep are convicted. Criminals in the economy are still pillars of society and they are unfair competition, and these criminals are networked with political powers, and we keep quiet and watch, we look through those facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42284	Replica reply, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42285	Thank you. Well, dear colleague Vuksic, I just have to tell you here and not just about the question when we're talking about interest. Ultimately, it is managed by the state, the government, the government, not the Croatian National Bank. And that's what the public has to say here. So the government has tools in its hands to advance Croatia's credit rating, not to bring it to the waste level. If the Croatian credit rating is junk, then it should not be surprising that especially outside Croatia, Croatian companies pay 7, 8, 9 and more percent interest, because Croatian companies can hardly operate in Croatia on the global market, or in Croatia, less interest than the Croatian state achieves. So the ultimate interest actually depends on the success of every Croatian government to manage the national economy. And there's your answer to this second part, and that's what we can be mad at entrepreneurs who import, export, but they're individuals, and the state, the government, the wise government manages that economy and motivates exports and deals with it. Last week, I was talking about you having situations where Croatian entrepreneurs use foreign ambassadors in foreign countries to try to do a job. So could something actually be harder than that finding? So in a large economy, the Croatian government has all the tools in its hands to motivate or demotize which markets, what we want to do, or in which sectors of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42286	Thank you. It's your turn to argue with your colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42287	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The public procurement law and the public procurement system set up by it must therefore constitute one of the grounds for curbing corruption in the country. This system should represent the defence of abuse of public interest, public money and, if it is set up, it is an extremely important tool that ensures the efficient functioning of the state and the state apparatus, makes the country more competitive and suitable for foreign investment as well. Until now, however, we can't be too satisfied with the public procurement system as it has worked in the Republic of Croatia. A number of examples show that fuses that should ensure the spending of public funds in a way that best protects the interests of the bidder simply did not work properly. Here is the information that Marko Rakar collected in the framework of his project The Windmill in which the public procurement data were collected from 2009 to 2011, which points to an extremely large number of companies that are almost exclusively operating through public tenders, to an extremely large number of public procurements where the difference between the estimated value of what the bidder offers, so he should not know about the expected value almost prevailing, etc. In itself, these data represent a sufficient reason to suspect that the public procurement system does not produce sufficient good results, or at least did not give it until the end of 2011 until such time as these data are related. Too often, we witness that procedures have been formally carried out under the law, and under the circumstances we have every right to doubt that something was wrong. The system should be clearly set up to suppress the widespread public belief that corruption in public procurement procedures is a very, very common thing. It is enough that there is in the public procurement system too much space to fit into existing legal procedures so that there is no possibility of sanctioning almost apparently malignancy. We have, unfortunately, a number of concrete examples. Some of them were taken out. For example, I can list a few from my community. The first is when public procurement laws apply in the first place. For example, when a local self-government unit needs to build kindergartens for which a public procurement process should be conducted and a tender opened, instead it hires a narrowly specialized object worth ten million kunas that a particular entrepreneur would have built just before the local self-government unit opened a tender for the lease of just such an object. In such a case, a logical conclusion is made, of course, that no one in his right mind would invest, for example. Ten million kunas in a narrowly specialized facility that does not have a complete firm belief that such a contest will be called when it is completed. Because the logical conclusion is that no one else will meet the conditions for having a new object of such value for the purpose for which the competition is called. Or an example when an entrepreneur who builds a support wall as a ice skating shield appears in a contest that has been required to build such a wall to build several tons of rails as no one else has used in similar works, which he has had in store for several years and has in no way known what to do with them in the event of a game having the right conditions for the installation of such material as he had at the warehouse. Unfortunately, such examples make it clear that the public procurement system does not work properly and needs to be completed. The new 2011 Law has adopted changes to the system in a good direction, and the amendments that are now proposed to some extent are in line with the EU acquis, but to some extent they represent an improvement in the legal text which is not only conditional on this harmonisation. These changes in certain elements represent rationalisation and flexibility and should certainly be welcomed. I would kind of take a critical look at Article 1 which refers to owners of legal persons. In several laws, we can find concepts like this, so here again I have the need to point out, and in previous discussions I pointed out that speaking in a legal sense, which we must do here because we are creating a legal norm, we cannot talk in the Croatian legal system about the owner of a legal person. For legal persons, we only talk about members of society, stakeholders, i.e. shares and founders if we talk about institutions. The use of the term may be appropriate in a colloquial speech, but in a legal norm it can by no means be because it is contrary to the Law on Commercial Society, the Law on Institutions and the Law on Property and other real rights. Here, even in reason, it is talked about founders, or members of society, and I do not understand why the legal text insists on the concept of the owner. This is one of many laws as I have said that uses legally inadequate terms and I think I will probably repeat this appeal several more times, but I think it's worth repeating because the use of a legally inappropriate term can lead to some real problems in the application of the law. The important novels that I need here highlighted in this law refer to the context of the use of electronic supply of offers and signatures of public procurement and the promotion of the use of the electronic list and the regulation of the conditions for such communication. First of all, I believe that the public procurement process will speed up and become more efficient and cheaper, but I also believe that this is why there should be a guideline in other areas, primarily in the public administration system. There is no reason not to implement appropriate amendments to the laws governing the conduct of state authorities and bodies with public authority and administrative judicial and other procedures that would allow for the full electronic communication of those bodies and parties and allow for the almost complete disposal of paper documents and now... delivery of such documents by physical means. I therefore highlight the regulation here of the problems here in this bill once again as an example to be followed. An important provision also assesses the provision of Article 18 which amends Article 92, which allows for certain flexibility and rationalisation as the contracting authority is allowed to invite tenderers to remove errors, shortcomings and ambiguities by clarifying or completing the documentation. In some ways, subcontractor provisions in Article 86 have been rationalised, but I have to point out, a questionable provision under which the contracting authority is obliged to pay directly to the subcontractor for the works carried out, the goods delivered or the provision of services. The contract with the subcontractor shall be concluded by the contractor and, as far as the client is concerned, the contract between the subcontractor and the contractor shall be... This essentially makes the third person outside the contractual person responsible for the obligations agreed by the other Contracting Parties, which seems to me to be precedentd in our legal system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps, for the sake of legal certainty, the content of the contract between the contracting authorities and the contractors should have been regulated here in more legal detail. that the contract cannot in any way bind the contracting authority to greater obligations than it has from the basic contract. I say just for the sake of caution and for greater legal certainty. As regards regulation of the subcontractor's problem, it should be pointed out that there were also a lot of controversy and suspicions about corruption. Here is a colleague, Radjenovic, who pointed out the example of Zagreb's vaults, which are an example of how involving a subcontractor may result in a situation where the client is damaged and that there are no sanctions afterwards. But it's certainly not the only example. There are already jokes about setting up public procurement and involving subcontractors. Therefore, further regulation in this segment should be considered, for example. by limiting the percentage of the results of the operations that manufacturers can take, on the additional control of such tenders and the like. I should also consider a similar additional regulation in cases where additional works are approved that are too often used to manipulate and increase the price of public procurement so that the final price is more than the one offered in the public tender. I also believe that further regulation should be sought in cases where, for example, it is approved. changes in the project and materials after a certain bidder wins the public tender under the original difficult conditions. Finally, given my general remarks from the beginning of the debate, I would like to ask that the system be made public and further rationalised, made more efficient, more transparent and better controlled. First of all, that the system should be done by such an act not only on the price of purchase but on making it as similar a situation as possible when each of us is looking for a more favourable situation when we act in our private affairs with the attention of a good master. And most importantly, the public procurement system should be subject to as effective control as possible. And not only when an opinion is being acted on by the contestants, but also in cases where a particular situation indicates that careful control should be carried out. One of the indicators that this should be done is the mentioned web application of the windmill that shows that the system could be effectively controlled. Using similar solutions like this application would often have the opportunity to react when a red light is turned on that indicates certain caution and the situation that needs to be checked. The improvement of the public procurement system is one of the conditions if not for eradication and at least for limiting the area of corruption the opportunity for the public procurement system to be equipped with even more efficient protection mechanisms should certainly be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42288	A colleague of Miroslav Tudjman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42289	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow Pandek here warned that as much control over this public procurement system as possible to prevent corruption and other abuses, that's okay. However, I think that we should also take account today of the effectiveness or what it means to us in the European context when this number of requests or candidates for those public funds will increase further. ... Other countries have solved this by protecting their entrepreneurs and their companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as I know, we don't have those mechanisms. For example, if it is done, if two bidders from Croatia, the other outside Croatia who have the same offer, the same price, the same quality to do so in Germany would get a German firm because they count on taxes and taxes to remain in Germany, since it is more favourable. This is not a question of corruption, it is a matter of protecting your own economy or your own jobs. Or when it's said we don't have a car industry, but it's easier to illustrate. So Chancellor Merkel at the time of the biggest crisis said she was stimulating the purchase of German cars simply to remain jobs where they stay. This mechanism, this calculation simply does not exist, it should be installed and should be such that it stimulates that Croatian companies then get these jobs if they are the same according to other parameters, precisely because both taxes and taxes, etc. stay in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42290	The answer to the replica Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42291	Thank you. Well, in principle, I agree with your views. In any case, this example that you cited by Chancellor Merkel in fact I think it was about the incentives given to car customers, it wasn't exactly about the public procurement system, but I certainly agree that the public procurement system should study the comparative solutions of other countries and see how best to protect the interests of our producers that we don't even have too much. There are not many of them left from that period we remember in the 1980s when our industry especially in Croatia and Zagreb flourished, and I certainly support the idea that these comparative solutions are how other countries protected their producers and public procurement systems research and application and in our laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42292	We continue the debate of colleagues Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42293	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, the more important the law and the bigger the problems, the more casual and uninteresting the debate. And that's proof of non-recognition of the importance of public procurement. Any amendments to the law should be a reflection of the observed difficulties in a given area. We have become rules, changing laws in accordance with EU directives, as if we have no knowledge of what is happening what we legally determine in our backyard. Of course, it is necessary to respect, install and implement EU directives, but any changes should be a response to detected problems. What did we detect is that this is in the area of public procurement and that we are in certain laws, and just before I heard that any changes to the law were an improvement in the area of public procurement, what did we see and what provision of the law would improve this situation and that it would be a more quality solution, what would be the effect of this amendment? Well, on public procurement, we often fell asleep, and it fell on public procurement procedures exams. So many direct problems have been shown, some of this bill is responding, but some are not. No one mentions additional works, so it's the biggest problem of public procurement as if it doesn't exist. Expensive work, making up what's called. ... The idea is how to get to the law, I'm not even saying it's breaking the law, but how to jump because the law doesn't rightly determine how it doesn't treat that category. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Public procurement is one of the most important areas for our country in financial and social terms. She mirrored business culture. What have we learned about public procurement so far? That it was also used to gain market power, that it was used for market domination. And then here is now this bill of law even in some way subjectiveness of the contracting authority, allowing it to even discriminate even on entrepreneurs with its subjective attitude. Article 9 refers to the conditions for the contracting authority to exclude certain economic operators from the procurement procedure. When they, when an economic operator or person is authorised under the law to represent an economic operator, are legally convicted of not fulfilling the obligation to pay, tax obligations in the Republic of Croatia have been made. And what if someone was punished outside the Republic of Croatia and did not pay the obligations outside the Republic of Croatia? What if he is a business entity outside the Republic of Croatia? What if he didn't pay the workers their wages? Is it more important that someone has not paid the tax of 3 thousand kunas or that they have 10 million kunas of unpaid salaries to workers? Is it more important for society to have a thousand kunas of unpaid tax or that suppliers have 100 million unpaid? According to this proposal if someone owes several thousand kuna taxes he can compete and the contracting authority is obliged to eliminate him, he is not obliged to eliminate him. And if someone is in debt to 50 or 100 million suppliers that he has eliminated that they cannot participate in the procurement process, he can compete. It's neither life nor socially justified. So subjectivity is the one who speaks here as much as possible, which is not possible. Eliminate those who have contributed most to the bad situation in the economy should certainly... public procurement procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And consider all the elements. So many are under performers, so many are destroyed, just from those who were on a public announcement chosen as performers and they can still compete and get jobs. And those who because of them may not have paid a thousand or two or five or 20 thousand kuna taxes they won't be able to compete but they paid their workers, they paid their suppliers. They respect social culture, respect the culture of business and cannot compete and these, the important thing is that they have paid taxes and that the whole state, maybe the state is cramped because of them and they don't pay anyone, which is not paying suppliers the market power, this law doesn't foresee, it's a huge lack of this law. As it is to praise that it is finally, that subcontractors must be paid directly, not but to the sea. And any law would have to contain clear definitions, should not contain, in a certain way, such terms do not exist in the law. What does that mean? So also the article 10 which speaks about the conditions when a contracting authority may exclude some. Once again, there is a paradoxical situation that will remain someone in the public procurement process because the contracting authority has decided that he can exclude it but will not, for example, exclude it and is convicted of a criminal offence or because I know here that the economic operator has been legally convicted of a criminal offence, that the economic operator has committed a serious professional failure in the last two years since the start of the procurement procedure. What is it now that I'm asking you a question up there again? Don't pay taxes for 2000 kuna or be convicted of economic crime and crimes? And now it's left to the public order that he's assessing whether or not he's going to do something. And then not from all of these, that it excludes everything, but can leave one, install the other and selectively access from the process to the process when some parameter will turn on and when one will rule out, as it suits. The law shouldn't make it that way. He would have to be clear who can and can and under what conditions to compete. This means that in one procedure, one of the contracting entities who is convicted will be able to participate in a public competition, and the other economic operators will not be able to obtain it. Is that normal? In Zagreb, in the same place in the same city can in one case in another case not be... and the same legal entity under the same law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or in Split he can't, depending on the subjectivity of the contracting authority when who will,... , and even the same, and the same economic operator can include it once, and after a month if the new public procurement can turn it back on because it gives him judgment when he will rule it out and when not out of public procurement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not enough is being conducted in the public procurement process on the costs of those involved in the public... , only participation in public procurement requires too much cost. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why must public authorities do so, too, and work to ask all bidders for a bank guarantee. 20 of them must provide all documents, a bank guarantee that costs and which is extremely expensive to select one that ultimately provides a bank guarantee for the performance of works and services, and those 19 or 18, or 15 of which needlessly spends money and pay only fees to banks. The problem is simply solved to condition the letter of intent of a business bank that, if you are elected as a contractor, you are obliged to deliver a bank guarantee. And then all those who will not be chosen will have at least no extra cost. And about that, imagine how many entities are involved in public procurement and chosen individuals only. And they all have expenses, and they're only getting worse anyway, and they're having a difficult situation. The payment is well decided to be paid by the contractors directly but not taken into account when paying an advance why the advance goes only to the one chosen and not to the subcontractors. In the pro-proportional amount, the advance part should also be paid directly under the contractors in accordance with the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42294	Thank you. We have three replicas of Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42295	Dear fellow Maric, here you have touched some very interesting topics but one about it, this law carries that famous E, European law. Now you've listed, as I said, you referred to an article on the 10th where I spoke where it says it can, it can be excluded from public procurement if it's convicted of economic crime but it doesn't have to. Often in laws, so-called. The European laws that we are agreeing here unanimously and then in the tenth part are about European laws, and the rest is being pushed over by what has nothing to do with the directives, so this practice needs to be abandoned. Therefore, we will vote if you correct the laws, and certainly no directive says that a criminal can be excluded from public procurement, but we must do so. You were talking about long suppliers, actually unfair competition. It is important to pay taxes to the state, and whether someone owes 300 million suppliers and thus, as you said, acquires market power, the legislator does not seem to care. The big problem is additional work, it's that extra-cost work that's often in 3, 4, 5 and 10 contracts bigger than the contract itself. That kind of thing just wasn't regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42296	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42297	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, so I stressed that uncertainty should not be an integral part of any law. For example, I'll read it to you, it can adequately determine its application. Which means he can do it properly. It's not in any law and it can't be a directive. The directive is what is required to be installed and something that is flexible cannot be imposed, which is undefined. Therefore, we are installing and always leaving room for manipulation on purpose and consciously. I don't know why, because of the individuals. How is it possible that some company in bankruptcy under Article 10 of this law may be in the process of public procurement, and the other cannot. What are the criteria? Someone can be in bankruptcy with a re-shuffle, someone in complete bankruptcy, nothing is defined. Now even the same company that is in bankruptcy will once be eliminated, the second time it will not be eliminated. Well, we can't do that, we can't do that, indefinity. Which means if someone in the last two years, someone's been paying taxes for 20 years neatly and he's come in now, he hasn't charged the invoice one, and he can't pay, he hasn't paid his taxes in the last two months, he's stayed in debt. He will be eliminated completely, and to whom the state has written off 500 million kunas or billions of kunas, he is competing and he gets a job and he will continue to come back to the situation that the state is likely to write him off again. I think such defects must make the law impossible, not leave room for any abuse but in advance possible. I therefore believe that this Article 10 must be adapted to Article 9 and more clearly define what the tax debt is. If it's even one kuna, I agree, but then it can't be a debt to the suppliers of 300 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42298	Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42299	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Maric, with most of your debate here I agree and support, but here are two aspects. If I heard correctly because you swallowed a word, you said the debate was uninteresting. If I've heard it wrong, feel free to correct it, but if the way I thought I heard you, why, why would this debate be uninteresting? So is it precisely in this single chamber atmosphere when we try to listen to each other, and here we have a decent replication, so without the windiness we're trying to substitute with measurement, etc., so I just think that's what this room agrees with, that all discussions are conducted in one atmosphere of decentity. I'm up for it right now. But what's far more important is that you said the biggest problem of public procurement is additional works. I can agree in one part that this is a big problem, including the problem of public procurement but not only of public procurement, especially when we go back to the public sector, from ministries to local self-government units. The additional works are often blamed for the project task, so from those who set the task through the projects, I am almost convinced that there is no project that does not deserve to be audited and then we come to the public procurement process and, of course, sure that then and through those performers who have been reported specifically in that section that they know how to look for and put up problems with additional works, but I would not have ruled out this whole series. Project assignment, projects, then it means procedure, performers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42300	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42301	Thank you very much. My colleague Kovačić, I said that the debate was casual, casual that it was. ... But here she is no longer casual. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But why, because I listened carefully, I did not hear a single particular problem and a way to solve that problem. Now, in these last 15 minutes, we've heard about it, which is why these discussions are good for the law. And great to say in one of these debates what's good, which is not, I just don't know why it's always hard to say most of the time I agree with your replica. I wouldn't talk, I've often said I agree entirely if I agree. But there's always one reserve left, so you didn't point out what you disagree with me about. But, of course, the additional work is a big problem and should be watched in the context of the problem of how to solve the problem. It's not always a situation that outside of cost-effectives there has to be 20% or 30%, but there is a situation where there has to be. And it must not apply the same rules to those situations where they are necessary and when they are not allowed to matter because there are many situations where none of the Junees outside the cost-effectives can be. There are such situations, and we define the law according to one situation and another. I pointed out most of the unfair competition and that the existing possibilities for certain entities in the same status to be treated differently, that one could participate, and the other not, to encourage unfair competition. This eliminates the market balance, resulting in a full market imbalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42302	Thank you. Young Nova, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42303	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, you said at the beginning that the amendments to the law assume that the reaction occurred as a response to a problem that is in practice, which is happening in real life, and that should be the case. Unfortunately, however, we are aware that lately we are only here because of the adoption of these directives from the EU. You also mentioned an expression outside the cost-effectives or as they often call them VTRs in the jargon. Interesting that the VTRs so-called. in many of the findings are also found by the revision, and even the finding that these costs have exceeded even those basic costs, and it happens even a few times, so it is well known that some works, the basic competition is for some really funny figure, and then it pumps up after the unsuspecting proportions. Interesting that those institutions that find it a problem, that's where it all stops. There's no reaction beyond what should be. On the other hand, I must admit that I also agree with what your colleague from your club, a fellow Milosevic, has said before that the amendments to the law should in some way enable those who are successful, who have some problems that are real to find them some way to help them. One of these problems is, let's say, constant complaints, so repeating competitions to fatigue, putting in a situation that actually no longer makes sense because he needed to be, which works should have been, or what should have been agreed with this contest more pointless and such competitions fail. That's where the law should do its part, but these other institutions that deal with it should, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42304	The replica matches my colleague Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42305	Thank you very much. Well, it's great that you mentioned colleague Novak to the State Audit. So this law and the amendment proposal should be based on the findings of the State Audit. If anyone knows the difficulties and what's going on in the area of public procurement and what needs to be done that doesn't happen, then the State Audit knows. I don't even know if they were members of the working group to make this proposal? I don't think it's as far as I know, maybe I'm wrong, but I don't think so. There is finally no state institution in Croatia that has worked as professionally and consciously as the State Audit has not done in the past years. But lately it is the most professional state institution in the Republic of Croatia. And don't see what they've seen. Well, they would see there that outside the cost-effectives that have the keybinding wrong VTR because and then speak as if it were outside the cost-effectives, and it's not in the spirit of Croatian, then they would see that it's a really detected problem that appears everywhere. And why force the contracting authority to always cleave to those permitted amounts, and when the State Audit noticed when it was clucking, and when it wasn't, in which case it was, in which case it wasn't. And fellow Milosevic well noted that in no case should the price be the main element of the decision-making factor. Well, as a rule, a good businessman, usually the lowest price and the highest reject, doesn't even consider them. It implies the rule of good business behavior, and then it asks, there are so many elements that decide what is the best offer, and the price is just one of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42306	That's how we exhausted the list of people reported for discussion. I'm asking Deputy Economy Minister Allen Liveric, will it be final? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42307	Thank you very much. Vice-Presidents and distinguished MPs and MPs, so here before I give the final word a clean few of the information that has been opened at this debate today. As regards the State Audit, the Honorable Representative, the Ministry of Economy, held an opinion on the existing, amendments and additions to the law, and we received no opinion from the State Commission. What we received from the State Commission, and what we get after the audit and the Assembly, the audit reports we send the indictment proposals, so in 2012, 20 of the indictment proposals were sent in line with public procurement and 4 of the indictment proposals to date. As regards the additional works for public procurement mentioned here today, the European Directive 17 and 18 of 2004 allows for additional works of up to 50% for public authorities, and the Croatian law provides for up to 25%, i.e. the Public Procurement Act. It means Directive 17 and 18 of 2004. The distinguished representative Martincevic mentioned time periods. Here is a clear article of the 39th precisely on the trail of what you have mentioned for the city of Varazdin, the condition is that within 30 days of the day of the submission of the order, the commission must make and publish a decision, and on the basis of that, this Parliament has also adopted somewhere at the beginning of the year the Law on the State Commission, where the Council of One has increased to three in order to speed up the process of making the appeal procedures. The State Commission is also obliged to deliver a report on its work by the end of this year to this Parliament. And I would like to point out in the end that in addition to harmonising with the Penal Code and other laws and provisions of the EU acquis, and here it has been repeatedly and said, this law pursues the reduction of administrative requirements and facilitates the application of the public procurement process to those who submit, as well as facilitates the process to the contracting authority itself. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42308	Thank you. A respected counterpart, Goran Maric, applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42309	Thank you very much. Mr. Leveric, you said how many of the charges were made, but it wasn't the subject of the debate. The point of the debate was that Article 10, that whoever is accused, for example, is hypothetically saying 100 indictees from the economy, this law allows 99 to participate in public procurement, the public procurement process, and one to shut down. That's what we're talking about. It is said that one who is in bankruptcy, paragraph 1 of Article 10, that the contracting authority may exclude it if it is in bankruptcy. So, out of the 500 bankrupt entities, only one can be excluded and not allowed to participate in the procurement process, and 499 participates in the procurement process. You don't answer that, it doesn't make sense, it's not rational, it's not life. That's what I'm talking about. This allows selective access to public contracting authorities, and this is not good for the Croatian economy, it is not good for Croatian society. Answer that, not what I'm not asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42310	The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42311	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 379. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club and the SDP Representatives' Club. Please make your statement on the amendments. Deputy Minister of Economy, Honorable Allen Leveric, please. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 10 of Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42312	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42313	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 18
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42314	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42315	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3 to Article 34
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42316	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42317	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42318	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42319	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42320	The provision of Article 15(1) of the applicable Public Procurement Act does not define the concept of a protection workshop, and its definition should therefore be sought and interpreted in accordance with the provision of a specific regulation, i.e. Article 19(2). The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which is lex specialis in relation to the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42321	On behalf of the Proposer Club, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club are extremely sorry that the Government has no understanding for companies that employ persons over 51% with disabilities and unfortunately they do not even want to accept that this Article 15 is not in line with Article 19(2). The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42323	I ask you to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 9 esteemed Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42324	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42325	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42326	The proposed amendment cannot be accepted because, otherwise cited, it could not be applied because Article 67(2) The public procurement law does not contain the word "obligation".
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42327	On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42328	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42329	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragovan Igor. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. Can we get a score? I find that the majority of votes 76 for, 21 against and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42330	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Competition, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 399 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42331	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Competition. The basic reason for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Competition is to determine the competent authority and enable the direct application of the EU acquis in the field of competition protection, Articles 101 and 102. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU which regulates competition protection issues between EU Member States, followed by the EU Council Regulation of 2003 implementing rules in the competition prescribed by Articles 81 and 82. The Treaty establishing the European Community and Council Regulation 139 of 2004 on concentration control between entrepreneurs. However, although the applicable Competition Protection Act is in line with the existing EU acquis in the field of competition protection through EU membership procedures for establishing prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs and the abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs, this law will ensure that, with national law, the law of the Republic of Croatia directly applies EU law Articles 101 and 102. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU when it comes to agreements or practices of entrepreneurs having an effect on trade between the Republic of Croatia and the Member States of the EU. Therefore, this law regulates the competence of the Competition Protection Agency as the bodies authorised to apply the first paragraphs 101 and 102. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Therefore, the applicable Competition Protection Act only authorises the Agency to apply that law to agreements and abuses of the ruling position of entrepreneurs exclusively with effect in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this law regulates the jurisdiction of commercial courts to directly apply those articles in private and legal disputes in the cases of the parties and in the proceedings for the determination of the damages caused by the infringements of those articles. The power to apply Articles 101 and 102 directly to competent commercial courts in private-legal disputes under complaints shall be conferred on the parties to provide faster and more effective legal protection. It is also one of the reasons why it is pointed out that this law, apart from establishing the competence of AZTN and national courts, is to enable the application of the full acquis of the EU to that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42332	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague, Đuro Popiac, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with his associates. So here is really a real example of what it looks like to coordinate a certain part of legal legislation with the EU. I'm afraid even this law can't cause too much passionate debate. So here are some colleagues who have also commented on the need for such a kind of debate, but it is really very important to understand what it really represents and in the introduction is Mr. Deputy and said. Therefore, this is indeed the full transposition of the EU acquis into one part, and it is mainly about the protection of competition where powers are handed over and the Agency's powers are established for the full application and direct application of certain EU legislation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and it is about the application of Articles 101, 102 and 106. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, which in principle regulates the issue of competition in the EU Member States. It is therefore necessary to ensure that, in addition to national legislation in the Republic of Croatia, law is applied directly, so that the EU is directly concerned by the behaviour of entrepreneurs having an effect on trade between the Republic of Croatia and EU Member States. Therefore, Article 101 regulates prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs that may affect trade between Member States and which is targeted or resulted in the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the common market and exemptions from the general prohibition of the conclusion of such agreements, so it is cartels. I believe that we understand what 500 million people at market level and the highest concentration of economic power also means for the domestic market. Article 102 thus speaks and regulates the abuse of the dominant position of one or more entrepreneurs on the common market or its significant part which does not comply with the common market because they affect or may affect trade between Member States. That's what they're called. abuses. The only area within the protection of competition governed by a specific regulation is the concentration between entrepreneurs, which is the common competence of the EU institutions, the institutions of the Member States. The current Competition Protection Act is already in line with EU legislation but it is still necessary to ensure that, in certain cases, EU law is applied directly when it comes to the behaviour of entrepreneurs having an effect on trade between the Republic of Croatia and EU Member States. Thus, the Competition Protection Agency will monitor the application of common exemptions to agreements that have an effect on the Croatian market and on trade between the Republic of Croatia and EU members. The Agency will assess the concentrations that have an effect on trade between EU Member States but only when the evaluation of these concentrations is decided by the European Commission to give way to the Agency. Furthermore, the Agency is obliged, of course, to provide mandatory confirmation of the authorisation of the concentration without delay while in the applicable law, the certificate is delivered at a written level. The amendments to this Act allow the Agency to apply Article 101i of Article 102i directly, in practice, the only point at this point where certain regulations will be applied directly in the field of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the law amending and supplementing this law shall also govern the jurisdiction of commercial courts for the direct application of these articles in private legal disputes by the parties in the proceedings for the determination of the compensation caused by the infringements of these articles. Furthermore, the law amending and supplementing this law regulates the exclusive jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia to decide on actions against decisions of the agencies and to issue orders to carry out unannounced searches of business and other premises, land, means of transport in procedures relating to the establishment of the most serious infringements of the Law on the Protection of Competition, i.e. prohibited horizontal agreements of cartel entrepreneurs. It is important to mention this again because here I repeat this is one of the few but at this point here are the first direct examples of the direct application of European legislation in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and of natural and legal persons who would potentially be concerned by these provisions. In addition, AZTN is intended to impose penalties on those entrepreneurs who violate competition rules or those who join themselves to obtain illegal profits for themselves or for their companies. So far, this has been done through misdemeanor procedures that in practice did not bring God knows what results. The only thing could have been that a certain percentage of the amount of these penalties is directed directly into the budget of AZTN, so the Competition Agency has a certain need for additional funding itself, such as in Hungary and some other countries, to allow AZTN to have some other income than the revenues of the state budget. Otherwise, the area of competition has already been mentioned here in the Parliament. It has primarily been more or less a matter of state support so far, and thus the role of the agency itself. We often discuss this or when there are reports of certain ministries provided by state support or agencies. And we must therefore also remind ourselves, to mention how much the role of AZTN itself was during the previous period when we closed negotiations because the competition was one of the last and last actually open chapters, when negotiations on the accession of the European Union and one of the three last or two closed chapters. And certainly one of the most difficult primarily and generally precisely because of the unlawful state aid that the Republic of Croatia has given to certain economic operators in difficulty. Of course they relate primarily to shipbuilding but there were problems around Croatia radio television, so if, industry, steel etc. It's all worked out successfully. The Agency itself has already had years of experience in full and regulatory but also operational adaptation and its activities, as well as throughout the market, which are extremely, extremely important for the functioning of this single European market. Indeed, all that and all those experiences that have been gained over all these years have definitely helped both in the process itself and in the negotiation process, the accession and conclusion of accession contracts and the introduction of rules of conduct regarding the protection of competition in our economic operators. Because it will actually be extremely now and under the light of the European Commission directly. We will, of course, support this Law because it is here we are talking about the direct implementation of the jurisdiction of certain legal regulations on our market and directly... the harmonisation of this Act with certain provisions of the European Commission as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42334	Thank you. The esteemed Ivan Shuker has applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42335	Well, fellow Popijac, perhaps when I say this one last step in harmonising Croatia's legislation with EU legislation, maybe this is exactly the law where we should say that we should come at all to this stage that we should bring down a series of prejudices, customs, opinions, I have to get it, I can't be banned from getting it. That may have been the hardest step. And it's not all negative, it's not all bad, it's when you look at this law and maybe it's the Ministry's representative. Because in principle when we spoke and when we talk about the report of the Competition Protection Agency and when we talked about the new Support Act we are in principle clear... which is waiting for us tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's all basically tied up. And you just can't look apart from each other. And perhaps the biggest problem is that in this haste of emergency procedures, we simply don't view this law that way. And we don't actually say all those heavy steps that should have been taken. So, you only mentioned shipbuilding. There were a number of incentives that were simply given in the Republic of Croatia and people were getting, in fact, companies had incentives just because they were dealing with something. However, the amendments to certain legislation needed to establish certain rules of the game that you should not only have a company to deal with something to get incentives, but simply have to get incentives for something you do. May I say what is missing in this debate to be a little more lively and joyful, but all those who have participated in the amendments to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia over the past 7, 8 years and all those who have faced these customs and prejudices, and I have to get that opinion, know that it has been an extremely difficult job to get to this last step and that in the late 30th evening we all celebrate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42336	The replica matches the Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42337	You mentioned these two important things, therefore, only competition and great, great effort that all those who participated in this final phase of the conclusion of the negotiations and did both institutions and individuals to meet all the criteria in this chapter, so there was also shipbuilding, of course, the biggest problem. And as for these, this part of the activity and the agency itself, as well as the general state aids, should, of course, always and continuously repeat that, for a long time, it has been fully accepted and regulated and practice and the way the support was contained in, especially in the part of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And for the first time, of course, these horizontal support has started to be applied precisely thanks to the regulated support system. And which was also a key part of the role of the Competition Agency because it also evaluated all programmes from the ministries but of course from the legal and economic entities themselves which had been participated in this section in a particular segment. In particular, the restructuring part, therefore, is now talking about major restructurings and restructurings have always been done. And whenever there was a restructuring process, it had been going towards the competition agency for seven or eight years, which gave an opinion and gave negative or positive opinions on restructuring programmes. So, of course life doesn't start from today or it was yesterday, but here's a good thing that continuity continues and that we finally have the whole story rounded up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42338	Thank you. What the HNS thinks about this bill is that we will hear from respected colleague Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42339	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the current competition protection system in the Republic of Croatia, the Competition Protection Act which entered into force in 2010 and the Government Regulations adopted on the basis of a proposal from the Competition Protection Agency. This is even about 11 regulations laying down the way and criteria for the determination of the relevant market, the criterion for assessing the concentration of entrepreneurs, setting out the criteria for the delivery of administrative and penalty measures, or governing other competition protection issues. The protection of competition between Member States of the European Union is an integral part of the legal gain of the Union since its establishment and concerns both market behaviour control and control by Member States of the European Union in the award of state aid which may distort trade in the Union market. The specific area of protection of competition in the legal property of the European Union is governed by the provisions of Articles 101, 102 and 106. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which in fact prohibits agreements which could result in the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the common market and, of course, the prohibition of abuse of the ruling position, i.e. the prohibition of monopolies. Those provisions are also required to be applied by the European Commission, the competent competition authorities and courts in the Member States. This ultimately means that Member States are obliged in practice to ensure the application of rules in the field of competition protection and, of course, it is important to amend and supplement this law and adopt it. Because while the existing law is therefore in line with the acquis of the European Union, Croatia's membership in the European Union is necessary to ensure that, with national legislation in Croatia, the law of the European Union is also directly applicable, especially when it comes to the conduct of entrepreneurs who have an effect on trade between the Republic of Croatia and a member of the European Union. It is important to say that these amendments and additions lay down the clear competence of the Competition Protection Agency as the bodies authorised to apply the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as for cooperation with the European Commission and competition protection bodies of the Member States of the European Union as necessary in order to achieve a parallel competence between the European Commission, the competent European courts and national courts in the Member States in the application of legal gains in the field of competition protection. As part of this law, I have to look back a little bit on AZTN's work in a slightly different tone than the HDZ Representatives' Club said, precisely because its role has become even more and more important and often crucial for the business of our entrepreneurs. In fact, within a few days, a market of 500 million inhabitants will be fully opened, which will, of course, bring great advantages and opportunities to those who are willing to do so, but also great problems to those who have not prepared themselves well enough. The European Union market brings pressures on competition from the common markets and is tasked by Croatian entrepreneurs, of course, to these challenges. In that part, I believe that the Agency can and must take additional steps in the field of promoting competition rights and policies, i.e. to inform entrepreneurs and institutions, as well as professional and wider public on all relevant regulations, taking into account precisely the importance specified for the growth of the economy and the growth of competitiveness. Based on conversations with a number of businessmen, as well as insight into a whole series of disputes which therefore continuously exist between the economy and the agency to conclude that our shareholders are very unhappy with the work of the agency and of course they often see it through their glasses and that their criticisms are actually often the consequences of exactly this uninformation that I was talking about earlier. But I will have to agree with them that the agency should still play an advisory role in helping the fallen Croatian economy in a way that helps them overcome the difficulties and obstacles encountered in the process of proposing and taking measures to save companies, which is decided by the agency. In fact, the agency most often manifests itself categorically not without any intention of helping solve the problem and finding a solution. And they have no objections to this, but certain authorities of the state administration who, together with the owners, recognize that the key is to find a solution within the framework of what the European Union allows, and the best knowledge of how to do so has exactly the Agency. As it is known that these are the most affected right now by the processing industry and, in particular, the textile and wood industry of Croatia, which, with the problem already mentioned, points out that the agency is not quick enough to respond to their demands. Namely, the verifications of individual programmes with the agency take an extremely long, sometimes more than a year, given the moment in which we are absolutely unacceptable. And that is why it is extremely important that companies, when they report with constructive proposals, that the agency is really showing them, responds as quickly as possible because, as we know, most of the companies that propose specific programmes and restructuring processes do not have too much time. So in this sense, the agency should be far more sensitive. It is known that agencies in the European Union countries are highly constructive and that, despite the very clear rules of competition that apply there, they have found models to save their industries because they recognise that, of course, the aim is to respect all the provisions of the European Union's positive legislation, but also to take all measures possible to protect the domestic economy and domestic industry. I honestly don't think there's a need for us to always be more papal than the Pope and that, as I said, the agency is now becoming even more important and more significant and that, of course, we should start and it's never too late to think that way again. In this context, it is important to say that the law determines exclusively the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia to decide on complaints against the decisions of the Agency. I believe that the proposed regulation will allow for better legal protection of addressees than the legal solution so far, as it takes into account the need for good knowledge of the legal property of the European Union and the specialisation of judges who would, of course, be uneconomically and unrealistically implemented at as much as 4 Administrative Courts. And since it is mainly a matter of haste procedures involving a number of parties with different seats in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, such a solution is likely to ensure this necessary economicity and urgency of conduct. The law also lays down the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia to decide on the requests of the Agency for the conduct of unannounced searches of business and other premises, and in procedures relating to the establishment of the most serious violations of the law. This solution seeks to ensure that urgency and secrecy are respected when it comes to giving orders to carry out these unannounced searches and that, of course, there also needs to be a lot of caution in determining what the most serious infringements are in order to define the law and not abuse it. And as far as the courts are concerned, that has already been mentioned several times. It is important to say that for the first time, it is possible to directly apply Articles 101 and 102. The Treaty on the Functioning of competent commercial courts in private-legal disputes should also enable faster and more effective legal protection. Here is the CNS to support the adoption of amendments to the amendments to this law, with a sure requirement to suggest from this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42340	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42341	Dear colleagues, in the next period until sobering we will talk about fair, free, principled, regulated, legal competition. Normally, it's as expensive a flossula as the free market is, it's also flossula. We know well that of the two German, former German, the more undemocratic was called a democratic state. You said one fact that we're opening up a market of 500 million inhabitants. Tell me, first of all, what we're going to do with our jobs, which we're going to be competing with on those 500 million inhabitants, which we're prepared for, which is what our country has prepared for our producers, our exporters. It's a very high-profile businessman who told me this. The market survey, for example, of the EU's 50 million inhabitants for the goods they produce, costs more than a 100-year sum of profits. They said we can't be competitive on the market and we won't be competitive and we can't compete with our products. So one is the law and the other is our wishes and the other is what is often mentioned, so this is how I'm going to mention political demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42342	The replica matches Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42343	Dear counterpart Vuksic, we are prepared for the EU as far as we are prepared. We have decided all together to join the EU and we will bear all that is good and all that will, of course, hit us negatively by entering the EU. So now I really didn't understand this replica of yours very well. In my debate, I wanted to point out that all together, and this also applies to this previous Public Procurement Act, we must make sure that we are not more papal than the Pope and that in the system of procurement and in the system of action of the Agency for the Protection of Competition in the framework of what the EU allows, we find solutions in the framework of legislation to best protect our economy and our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42344	Second replica, honorary representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42345	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Martincevic, you have spoken and I think it is good that in this debate, in both of these discussions on two of these bill proposals we are also talking about our experiences, so in this broad area that concerns me, I repeat all of us. And you mentioned some remarks regarding the work of the Competition Agency in terms of and slowness, ineffectiveness, and I certainly say we all talk about our experiences. However, I would like, of course, here without the intention of being understood as a lawyer of the agency to say the good experience we have just had in negotiations in the last two and a half years regarding Chapter VIII. What's the matter? So, an agency that is an entirely independent institution but of course not independent of Croatian interests has made a huge effort and knowledge and thanks to this effort and this knowledge and perseverance, I think we have succeeded in what has been the goal of all of us. When it comes to shipyards, first of all, to what is Croatian production, to save as much as possible. We have two opportunities for privatisation, successful privatisation or of course bankruptcy, and it is unfortunate that many have said bankruptcy with liquidation. Therefore, the agency's work in support of not the Government but in support of one of our main objectives was large and almost undetectable in some moments. And that's why I think it's good to share our experiences. So, I would like to conclude that the experiences were good, that the experiences were excellent and that thanks to both the Agency's efforts and the agency's work, we succeeded in most of the shipyard as you know how to save and with that benefit, we join the EU 1.7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42346	The replica corresponds to the representative Natalija Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42347	Of course, the agency and I also talked about it in the Agency’s work reports in certain segments. I'm glad you mentioned the shipbuilding that was successfully resolved after 20 years for the term of office of this government according to the model of the former Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Cacic. That's really good. I just wanted to suggest that the agency and in these other segments, so help and support our economy should be more flexible. She has the greatest knowledge, she's at the source of knowledge, the best barbaric problem. And I think that, apart from that exclusion, often those first quick negative responses to our economies should give their proposals, therefore, suggestions and constructive proposals so that they can actually achieve and achieve what they want, within the framework of, of course, legally allowed and permitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42348	The SDP club's position will be brought closer to us by respected counterpart Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42349	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, once again with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I thank you for such a beautiful announcement, Mr. Vice President. Here, let me do it. Indeed, in the shortest lines since the predecessors also said that it was mostly about harmonisation and the debate itself has shown that there will therefore be no dissonant tones in terms of accepting or not accepting this law. The competition system, therefore, for the past 10 years, but also for 20 years we have upgraded and promoted it, but today it is based on the Law on the Protection of Competition, which was adopted by this Parliament in 2009, and it came into force as of 1 October 2010, and has been supplemented by the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, therefore, were adopted on this subject by the basis of the AZTN proposal in the period from the adoption of the law until 2011. It is 11 regulations. They spoke before me about this and since those regulations regulate the issue of protection of competition only in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary for them to remain in force after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into EU membership for 10 days. I said that there are no bigger and more contentious disputes about this law and that it will be accepted as such, and most of it is about, and in these rather broad reasons it is practically about nomotechnical harmonisations except these words which therefore come from the side of harmonisation, mainly about nomotechnical harmonisations. A fairly broad detailed explanation may sometimes be the question of how much, in fact, especially to someone who is referred to the subject of how much clearer they actually give the picture of the law itself, and how much in fact they can in some way distance a well-intentioned observer from the law itself. There, perhaps, I should take a little bit off the topic on a general one-digressive government proposal could do more to bring these arguments into line, to bring them in some way and bring them closer to us professionals from a professional level, but also to the general public and to all interested Croatian citizens in one significant part so that there may be explanations and simplifications to make some basic features clearer to the entire Croatian citizenship. I say by respecting all the complexity of this topic of protection of competition, it is indeed one of the most sophisticated issues of legal gain. But I'm saying I think it would be possible and something simpler to get closer to telling our citizens, and to MPs who don't have a narrow specialty on the subject itself. Just to say briefly, because of this complexity, I do not fully share Mrs. Martincevic's opinion that she had said earlier, I think AZTN has really done a lot in the given circumstances, it has become a sort of Center of Excellence that we have concluded with the State Support Act. She had a rather ungrateful assignment. I would be pleased that some other institutions in the Republic of Croatia function at the level at which AZTN operates. I say, their task was not simple, does not mean that it should not and should, of course, always move towards a more positive but I am not sure that tomorrow when the European Commission will take over a good part of the task that it will be after... and from the Competition Protection Agency itself. Thus, we will achieve a certain shift in this area. Therefore, this law ensures the direct application of Articles 101 and 102. The EU financing agreement, which therefore determines the issue of protecting competition between EU Member States. All Member States are therefore obliged to ensure the application of legal gain in the field of competition protection and, in accordance with the abovementioned obligations, to the following rules in the case of possible distortions of intra-EU trade, while also ensuring the application of national laws and regulations in the case of distortions of competition in national territory which have no effect on trade in the EU. For example, when it comes to these local service communal, educated, health and similar activities that are not expected for international competition. Most often, depending on the activity in which there is the very suspicion of a competition agreement between the competition authorities of each Member State, they decide whether it is an injury that leads to or could lead to a distortion of competition between the EU Member States or its impact is limited to the national market. It depends therefore on whether proceedings against entrepreneurs will be conducted on the basis of legal gains under Articles 101 and 102 or on the basis of national legislation in the field of competition protection, or at the same time as possible, and on the basis of both regulations. In addition to determining the Agency’s competence, AZTN has been shortened as bodies authorised for the direct application of Articles 101 and 102. The EU Agency will also be responsible for co-operation with the European Commission and the competition authorities of the EU Member States, which is necessary in order to achieve a parallel competence between the European Commission, competition authorities, so all EU members, competent European courts, the EU Court of Justice and the national courts in the EU Member States in the application of legal gains in the field of competition rights. The law therefore lays down the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Commercial Court to decide on actions against the Agency’s decisions and to decide on the Agency’s requests for the implementation of unannounced searches of business and other premises, land and means of transport in procedures relating to the establishment of the most serious infringements of the law. The assessment of the applicants was therefore sufficient in this regard, that given the relative complexity of that topic and given the size of the country, a small number of cases were expected, it is better to leave this activity exclusively in the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, while commercial courts remain competent to directly comment on the provisions of the legal property of the EU in this area in private legal disputes, in accordance with the complaints of the parties and the procedures for determining the compensation resulting from infringement of national rules. As my predecessors have said, this bill will certainly receive the support of all clubs and thus the support of the SDP club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42350	Thank you. We still have to hear the views of the HDSSB club, so I call on the respected representative Josip Salapic for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42351	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister with his associates. And the HDSSB club will, of course, support this bill for a few more reasons, similar to the other colleagues from the clubs that discussed this law, just stressing here that this is not only a technical law that falls within a very important area of protection of competition that has been present in the European Communities today since '47, '57. We've been developing this area of law since 1997. It is true that the agency has justified its existence in this long-term developmental pathway that the purpose, intention and work of the agency has very well justified its existence in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. What we agree on is one new question. All that has been done so far in Croatia, and much has been done, this belongs to this part of the Law on the Protection of Competition and in one other part falls within the area of justice because there is exclusive jurisdiction here for the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia to decide on lawsuits against the decisions of the Agency. So this is not just a technical issue for the protection of competition, but for one issue that lies in the sphere of justice. In all these areas in our negotiations, many have been done in the closure of the negotiating chapters, and what follows now is an entirely new story for the Republic of Croatia, our country, which will become a full member of the EU in two weeks' time. So, technically, what is said to be a no-technical direct application of EU legislation to the legal system of the Republic of Croatia is one of such laws, so direct application of the EU acquis in the field of protection of competition in Article 101, 102, 106 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, therefore, is a sphere of protection of competition. What I want in my debate in particular to highlight this new role of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, what is necessary to ensure the truth is that this would not have been done if we had given the law jurisdiction to these 4 administrative courts which we have brought to the amendments to the law when it comes to administrative trial in the Republic of Croatia, where we have relieved the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. It's okay for the High Administrative Court to decide on these issues. And also what we must do as a Croatian Parliament, which is the area of the Justice Ministry's work, should provide enough professional staff in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and judges. We have no doubt that this already exists today but what we certainly need is that we are through that judicial academy through the State School for Judicial Officials should make additional efforts and provide financial resources in the state budget. We are witnessing that the economic situation has led to a decrease of around 800 million kuna in the budget of the Ministry of Justice. If we really want the EU's European law and acquis to live in all areas, and also in this area of competition protection, expertise, capacitation, technical conditions, material conditions of action and agencies should be ensured, but in this case also the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Commercial Court of Justice, which will judge in private legal disputes which are raised on the protection of competition. So these are all new challenges and new chapters that will be found before both the agencies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. Last week, we discussed the relations between the parliament and the government after Croatia becomes a full member of the EU, and we can say the same about this area. So this is a technical law, a law that adds up to the already existing law where the work and operation of the agency are defined by law. This is the direct implementation of European law in these three articles, but also what we stress if we are really going to live in the full sense of that word, our membership in the EU needs to ensure expertise, capacitation, staff and enough resources to educate people and to bring to this new challenge for the Republic not to go down on this first step, so that we do not embarrass ourselves in these key issues, which is that we have done a lot so far and done to become a member of the EU, we have brought a lot of chapters and legislation in these few years, and now it is up to us to do what is said and to really live what is agreed and what is better interest and will definitely be of all the citizens of the Republic, and to benefit from what we have become a full member of the EU. The HDSSB club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42352	Thank you. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42353	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Competition, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 390. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. The amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was delivered within the deadline and became an integral part of the final draft law. That is why I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 101 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Competition in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with its amendment. Is there a problem? There isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42354	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Market in Heat Energy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 372 Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42355	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Heat Energy Market Act continues to bring the new 4 Croatian energy laws into line with the market principles that have been built so far. These are the Law on the Energy Market, the Energy Act, the Law on Regulatory Activity and the Law on the Gas Market, which are in line with the 3rd Energy Package of EU Law. This law regulates individual solutions to the EU Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency and thus saves... consumers of heat energy, as well as reducing negative environmental impacts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law on the heat market has three basic directions for innovation in the direction of recognition, the importance of energy generation in cogeneration systems, i.e. at the same time the production of electricity in the single technological process. The importance of planning heat systems in the energy sector and the importance of installing the measurement of consumption and the ability to control the consumption of thermal energy in apartments with self-usable units that all apartments in the Republic of Croatia must be equipped by 2016. The buildings as the largest individual energy consumption represent a great potential for energy, economic and environmental savings because over half of the energy needs of buildings make up the need for space heating and heating of warm will. Effective design and installation of heating and cooling systems should be recognised on each building as a separate unit and the Law puts in the same position all buildings or owners, the users of the space within them. On the same track, heat systems are also shared on independent heat systems related to one building, i.e. its tenants self-sufficient on the market, professional management, boiler maintenance and are obliged to report to the Ministry of Economy and HERA on elements related to energy consumption and heat production. The closed heat system connects several buildings or buildings but limited lengths of its external installations do not fall within the scope for which the concession is granted. In this supply system, registered suppliers and registered manufacturers may also appear if the boiler room is larger than 1 megawatt. And the central thermal system for whose installation of the local self-government unit gives concessions to the distributor. The distribution of heat is considered a public service and market participants in this system are the same as in the closed system. The law also introduces newspapers in relation to the activity of customers that can be carried out by a legal or natural person who, on behalf of and for the account of the owner or co-owner of the building, purchases energy for the production of heat in a separate heat system, or purchases heat from the heat supplier in a closed or central heat system for one building or building and is freely selected by a representative of the co-owners on the basis of the decision of most co-owners' votes and concluded with them a contract on the consumption of heat energy with the buyer. This Law also solves the problem, i.e. the way and possibility of singleing out the final buyer on a common scale of heat energy, i.e. excludes from the thermal system the price of buildings and buildings. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Market in Heat Energy, prices shall be established in each of those systems. In the transitional period to the developed market, or until more heat producers occur on a central heat system, HERA will regulate the price of heat generation until the time when the share of the individual producer is less than 60% in the central heat system when the HERA decision opens the market and the heat price will be freely formed in accordance with the market principles of supply and demand. The production and supply of heat solved in this way will encourage the introduction of criteria and heat dividers, and any activity and investment in modernisation, rebuilding the building will affect the savings in the thermal system and we expect to encourage projects in the energy reconstruction of the building. Other papers of the Law are seen in close cooperation with local self-government units that plan to develop thermal systems, especially in areas where cogenerations of renewable energy are developed. Like. for bio-mass and give priority to such heat generation systems for space heating and hot water consumption, which is related to the design obligation, the construction of new production plants, as cogeneration plants, and thus foresees the restoration of existing energy, industrial plants and their invitation to the central heat system. The provisions of the Law on the Market in Heat Energy also transpose Directive 2012/27 of the EU which determines the introduction of individual measurement of heat consumption in both old and new buildings. And the building, i.e. the buyer, proposes a unique way of introducing individual measurements and, as the deadline until which each independent unit or apartment must have an individual measurement, is determined at the end of 2016. For new buildings that are just beginning to build, the introduction of a measure of consumption of hot and cold water for each self-using unit is envisaged. Energy rebuilding of buildings, introducing individual measurements of heat consumption, investing in new cogeneration production, investing in existing energy facilities, investing in existing industrial plants, restoring the distribution network, are all elements that will contribute to increasing energy efficiency and reducing costs in the heat sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42356	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Ivan Shuker, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42357	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So unlike these two previous laws, where Croatia has, in recent years, so to speak, step by step, harmonising legislation with the European Union has introduced certain rules and has practically come to the stage that it is currently suffering from the same pain as most European Union members do. This is a law which, despite compliance with European Union legislation, still raises certain questions. And this is a law that practically directly entangles so it must be 50 % of Croatian citizens somewhere. And the logical thing to do before I say a few words about the law itself on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club to ask three basic questions. The first is whether this Law gives us an answer when the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will pay for heating according to real consumption. No matter what the law... We simply don't have a question, no one today can answer this question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why is that? Because we have so many different heating systems in the Republic of Croatia from city to city, from place to place that it is practically one legal provision and by the fact that it is intended to comply with the legislation of the European Union which has long been practically applied by this topic and unfortunately, in most of Croatia, we have remained at the yet resociative beginnings in solving the problem of heating. And so this is one of the key questions because look at us as parliamentary representatives, it must not be at all, however, it would be extremely human unfair and incorrect to close our eyes over it, that at this point in certain cities there is a 60, 65 square feet apartment in winter months paying for heating from 900 to 1000 kuna. And these people who have the salary of several thousand kunas, a pension of several thousand kunas, or unfortunately those who have lost their jobs, those 900 or 1,000 more kunas can very hard to pay for that heating. And now look at my colleagues and colleagues, why I started this debate from here, for the simple reason that with this bill, we, if we look at him technically he's perfectly made and we have nothing to object to. However, we are here not only to talk about the law but to talk about the problems of our citizens because with these changes of the law in 5% of the cases we will not solve the problem of this 1000 kuna price. And it's not the government's fault, so don't think right now, Mr. Deputy Minister, that the criticism is coming to you, it's a simple topic for discussion, so this is one question. The second question is what I've already said, is this law applicable? It is precisely because of this great diversity in the Republic of Croatia that it is not applicable. You have in certain cities to supply heat to the city heat, you have a case of HEP Heating, you have a case of several blocks or buildings having their own boiler room for themselves, so they've given it to someone to manage. What's not solved at this point in collective housing is that whatever there is gas installation, these apartments don't have gas in these buildings, so citizens are not given the opportunity to use their own water heater van or, in fact, it's technically the most acceptable solution, solve heating on practically thorough heating. As you have in the City of Zagreb, I think there are several buildings in Prečko that have been solved since 20 years ago and some other years. So everyone got their own connection when building a building and thus solved the heating. But it is also a lot of citizens unfortunately in the situation that pays for heating 900, 1000, 1500 kuna per month for a 65,70 square-square apartment, at the same time cannot regulate practically the heat in the apartment, many of them open windows and it is ugly to see in the City of Zagreb and in some other cities that it is -10 or -15 and you have at least one or two windows open in many apartments. So these are the facts that we can't escape, why, because as a state, we're losing large funds that are simply lost, and I'm not talking about the technical performance of these collective housing units where practically some kind of thermofasade or something like that can't be talked about. Start from these cans in Zapruj to these concrete buildings in New Zagreb, we can talk about my Great Gorica, and that's exactly the same story when a ten-inch concrete wall is simply not something that's some sort of insulator. So these are the problems that exist and that this law will not solve. This law in its only indications suggests that someone could solve it, but the real question arises if you separate something that you now have if you have solved the problem. You're not. Why? So for the simple reason that these people who live in these apartments can't at this point single out an extra 4000 or 5,000 kuna to solve the thermofasade problem and to solve the problem of these divisors and this whole thing together. Look, it's nice to say 500 kuna per radiator, it may not seem much but someone who has a pension of 2000, 2500 kuna, who has a minimum wage or who is jobless 500 kuna are... money. So one apartment of 60 squares doesn't have one radiator, it has at least 6-7 radiators, so times 500 it's 3000, 3500 kuna. And so this is the problem that we, as parliamentary representatives, have to talk about, we simply must not watch it because we could also debate and say this law is in line with the directives of the European Union, it predicts that certain activities are being separated. Yeah, and is it possible at that point? When you tell HEP Toplinarism that in certain boiler rooms you should be on that mule, which at this point is the ecological worst fuel that can be switched to gas, they don't think of it because it's too expensive for them. It's too expensive for them. But in the end, the inhabitants of the em destroy their environment, and they have to pay very expensive heating. So these are facts we can't escape from. These issues do not have political omens on the left or right because in local self-government units we are in different positions in power. I said that most of the time this heating was solved practically at the level of local self-government, the state there except HEP Toplinarism doesn't have much to do with it. And that's why this is all the trouble we can't get away from, and I don't think this problem just wouldn't get a political dimension in this assembly. If he gets a political dimension, then unfortunately whoever writes the laws in the future won't try to solve this problem. And then the third question that I just can't get around is who's going to bear the cost of losing heat, because look, from the big heat to the users of that thermal energy are huge losses. Why I'm talking about it, so if you've been reading the law a little bit, and in the end, it's also the European Union directives in this separation that have to specify the costs exactly. This is how each of them will set their own costs. Now the question is, who's gonna pay for the cost of those 1 km, 2, 3, 5 or 100 or 200 meters which your tube within a foot or a meter or a foot or a half below the ground goes to your building and then in winter when you're walking around the park then you see just this path of a meter wide there's no snow. This is the loss of heat during transport because these pipelines have been made some still ask God since when and the logical thing that they are probably not isolated and not reduced to them by this loss of heat to a minimum but simply by such. So who's gonna pay for it? Is he who produces heat? Look, he's going to use cheap energy sources to produce heat to come up with some kind of price. Now, this distributor that's going to distribute that thermal energy can he at all at the price of that energy that he has to cover that loss. So, one question that is not stated in the law, but a question that we simply must not ignore. The question until we come to some stage of the arrangement of this one perhaps the most unsettled problem in the Republic of Croatia simply must be taken into account. Because look, as in many water lines, water loss is 40, 50% due to net weariness, and depending on how much heat is going from heat to consumers, it's probably up to 30, 40 percent somewhere. I'm no expert on that part, so I wouldn't get into it. And what's a grudge to all these laws. Look, all of us who have been in politics, and have been in the executive power, have been taught one to say the legislative, Croatian language, and now this alignment with EU legislation, unfortunately, has made our laws completely unclear many times, makes them totally unclear to an ordinary man who doesn't even look at it, and maybe he doesn't look at it his whole life. But simply because of these prices that I was talking about and everything, he simply makes life look at the law. To him, this law is completely unclear and unreadable. Maybe if some things were said differently, you wouldn't get anything to comply with that. And at the end when I said the cost of building a thermal valve and divider is 500 kuna. Yes, 500 kuna. Take it I say a 60-square apartment is no big mega apartment. It's a two-bedroom apartment. He's got at least 5.6 radiators. And then the question arises, and what about those common spaces that so far are warm corridors and everything else? Who's going to fall for it, and how is that going to pay? So, colleagues and colleagues, these are some technical, life-long remarks that we simply cannot escape from. Because it's easy to argue and accuse someone of raising the price of 30% or 40% of the heat and we're having a political fight day, two, three or over the media. However, citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless. In one building you have all the political options, and the majority of those who do not belong to any political option have to pay for that heating 30% or 40% more expensive. So that's the problem. As for the law itself, just a few notes. So, with this that's the third package, so-called. the energy rules, that its basic provisions are related to the performance of activities in the context of the supply and production of heat as a market activity while the combination is now very interesting, while the distribution activity as an electricity sector gas regulated activity. So you have two segments that are your market activity and one segment that is your regulated activity. And I've been telling you why not go in technically deeper, which affects the price of that heat energy. And it's very difficult that you'll be able to set something up by market principles, and you'll set something up to say what you like to say in sports when you draw some pairs of semi-produced lot, and that regulated distribution of gas and electricity dictate some rules of the game. And whoever does this can't step out of those rules of the game, and someone else who participates in that game you let him make all the possible rules because he's on the market, he can do whatever he wants to get that job. So given the unsettled situation at this point, the question is how much will it be able to act. So, I'm talking about it. Maybe in five or ten years it'll be okay. But at this point, it's something that's certainly controversial, yes. And what I've already said, so it's nice that the Europeans have told us that we must, in the energy sector, do the decommissioning of the costs incurred in carrying out certain activities from others both within the heat market and according to the activities in the electricity and market gas market. Now in which segment of the cost you'll put these costs I've been telling you about. It doesn't belong to distribution. In order to come to the market at all, you simply have to predict these costs that you have to do in order to maybe become cheaper in four or five years. And what this law also says is that buildings are like the largest individual energy consumers and they today represent a great potential for energy, economic and environmental savings. This is great in the law written and said, however, these buildings have a lot of problems. And in order for them to be what the law defines we have to solve a bunch of these problems. Otherwise, this definition in law simply doesn't drink water. Because it doesn't matter if some tenants do what they do now invest money, increase their reserve they pay, arrange the facade, lift the loan, create a thermal facade, so five or ten centimeters of Styrofoam as far as the next building that didn't do it. Because it sure as hell won't be done by a heat distributor. And what I would also like to say is that it is necessary to amend the proposed Articles 45 and 46 in such a way as not to impose conditions on the consumer in the event of termination of the contract with the heat supplier. Because if we let heat suppliers compete in the competition, if in this part of the regular we've regulated some regulations, then it's not fair for those who pay all this together to determine the rules of the game how to behave if they break the contract. So what I would say in the name of the club at the end of two sentences is that we will surely support this law. It is simply a step towards regulating something, however, with the ultimate goal of finally paying for the heat energy of Croatian citizens, rather than for what others have spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42358	Thank you, too. We have reported four replicas. First respected representative Igor Radinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42359	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it was interesting to listen to a fellow Shuker when he appealed, so on this possible cost for Croatian citizens around new heat divisors, etc. And I often just in the debates about other points of the agenda. I am just using this example of HEP heat and heat management on how HDZ governments were irresponsible in managing state property and simply letting things go their own course and then later transferring the costs elsewhere. I don't know Mr. Schucker was a member of the government of the Republic of Croatia when she made that decision, but I will remind you that according to previous law, the government should therefore give consent to the purchases of heat prices, and that the government then transferred that power to the units of local self-government that are neither the owners of this HEP heat, etc. What was the consequence of that? The result was that citizens of cities where HEP heat was not paid for the really economic price of heat heating, and during the price of electricity practically paid this difference to cities such as Zagreb and Velika Gorica which were therefore on HEP heat. The company was totally devastated, destroyed, and I'm surprised that you didn't, and then you noticed that this massive waste of heat destroys the environment and continue to act like rich poor people and that in fact indirect costs like any energy, and that's where you'll believe you'll agree with me, energy costs someone pays the sea. And it's always good for that price to be determined as high as possible and to be distributed to those who use energy, of course respecting all social elements. I am convinced that through this bill, so through the construction of the divisors, etc. to be found through local companies certain loans and certain incentives to bring things in because ultimately we will certainly pay less because we will spend less energy. Why have we worked all these 10, 15 years on that better you and your colleagues know the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42360	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42361	Sincerely speaking, I am surprised by your replica, but you often like to touch someone else so little that you blame someone else for something. I'm just going to tell you one example, in 2001 I was mayor of Great Gorica, we gassed the city and we literally wanted all the heat that the city has a few crossings on the gas without being on the mule. Unfortunately, I didn't make it back then. I couldn't even make it when I was a minister. And I was just talking about these problems knowing how many they were, so when I spoke in the previous replica saying that some things unfortunately left roots and it's very difficult to change them. Since someone irresponsible is very often speaking irresponsiblely, however, you are in power for a year and a half, don't overrule anyone because I don't think my debate went to anyone else's side but simply to warn them that what happened in the previous years is not happening. And I said no matter what political option, also no matter what political option I could tell you about what is happening to the citizens of the City of Zagreb. Well, I didn't hear too much of you talking about it. But it won't take us anywhere because the purpose of our debate isn't that the two of us are going to fight, the HDZ and the SDP are going to fight, but in whether this law when we pass it will create a prerequisite for Croatian citizens to at least pay cheaper electricity in one part. That was the point of my debate. And anyway, I've said it a few times that I can't think of telling someone something. Or at this point in the replica, I want to just say it, but I'm saying, unfortunately, you've technically apologized for what's in the law, what's changed by law, but the problems remain. We can't solve these problems with this law. And the proposer is fully aware of that. But we simply have to open this question for a simple reason for Mr. Deputy Minister to put it on the table of some kind of college to start solving somewhere. Because look at the political bickering that one mayor says I'll sort it out one way or another, and in the end, without the money of the Environmental Protection Fund, nothing can be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42362	Another replica is respected counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42363	Dear fellow Shuker here, and now you're talking in your replica about what I want to talk about. You said this didn't have much to do with politics and that in these problems it couldn't be politicized. You have raised the question of who will suffer the losses of heat in transport. Well, they always bear the loss of citizens. What good politics, I don't agree with you, doesn't work out with citizens. In the end, even those users who don't use heat, even them. You know that in the end what's going on. You said you would not talk about Zagreb, in Zagreb it is also such a similar situation. But you mentioned a very interesting case, and that's a waste of water. For example, in Zagreb, 40% of water is lost from the drain to your faucet, 40%. Who's paying for it? Well, citizens. So we pay for more expensive water than gas. We pay for water like we have a slightly weaker gemist we drink, we pay for that much water. And then you say it has nothing to do with politics. How does it not matter? The ones chosen didn't do a good job. Everything has to do with politics, nothing happens beyond politics. Politics regulates everything. Therefore, it is not true that this is not a political issue, of course. Then we wouldn't be discussing it at all. Well, since we're general-type politicians and we're discussing it and it has a lot to do with politics. And what happened in Velika Gorica has to do with politics. Remember in the election campaign eight years ago, four years ago when it was just getting hot and losing. Mr. Picula lost his election in the heat. He didn't know how to handle it. It's politics, it's politics, and all we have to do is say no to each other. No, all we have to do is tell each other the facts. Because of the incompetence of politics, citizens pay huge costs of everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42364	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42365	Yes, colleague Vuksic, every segment of life is politics. Because let politics make a decision about something. But I'm in something, so every segment of life politics makes a decision. Whether at local, county or state level. But when I talked about this subject, so I tried to put some things on the table for a simple reason taught by how to discuss the two previous laws that some things simply didn't want to be highlighted, so put some problems that bear their share and SDP and HDZ, you're carrying because you haven't been anywhere in power yet.' But problems that if we don't open here in this assembly and we don't talk about them, we'll practically pass the law and they'll welcome the next winter. So that's what I was talking about. And I say, I could have opened up a series of things, I could've opened up how the SDP acted in 2009 in Velika Gorica when the government made a decision to increase the price of heating then they could have organised this or that and now they don't want to burden the units of local self-government but they're going to do it, but I'm saying it doesn't matter. I think that this is primarily a life theme and that citizens cannot live without it. Citizens today will be easier to eat less bread than to freeze at minus 10. So it's something they have to have and something that pays far more than they should. Take one pensioner or one pensioner who lives in a 60-square apartment and has a pension of, say, 3.5 thousand kuna, that's for Croatian terms and gets a thousand, thousand, 100 kuna, gets electricity from 300 kuna, and then we're talking about something. So that's the problem we need to talk about. And that's why I said when we talk about this problem let's not push that policy, and politics will ultimately decide how this problem will be solved, good or bad. So in this context, I was saying that politics is not the place, so in our discussions. And politics is the one who gave responsibility at local or state level will finally make a decision. And whether that decision is good or bad will evaluate voters in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42366	He will now be replicated by counterpart Josip Bencic to represent Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42367	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd do with a little replication. We pay for the most expensive heating in Croatia, an apartment of 70 squares about 1300 kuna, Toplana went bankrupt one city firm went bankrupt, 80 million kuna. I'm going to replicate on this part of you that it has nothing to do with politics. 80 million kunas went bankrupt, we got a new Toplan actually old into it already invested 50 million. That's where the directors were changing like they were in the running lane. I think five of the HDZ coalition partners passed them through Toplane's executive chair. I'm telling you this because I agree with you too that the law is good, but the problem is in irresponsible local self-government. And in that part, I replicate it has nothing to do with politics. There is, there is a lot of it if politicians are unfortunately setting up directors and heat and public enterprises and they have to answer for it. Here's the part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42368	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42369	Well, my colleague, Bancic, I would say that first, if you and your colleague Radjenovic agreed on who was responsible for the heating. You said local self-government, he said earlier that the government didn't have the strength to make that decision but was landing on local self-government. Therefore, my intention was just not to accuse this or that, but to try to help Croatian citizens together. And my debate went that way, in no other direction. I could have gotten an example out of this one or the one who can get him out of this room. However, the 1.11. citizens of Croatia will again pay crazyly high heating. If we don't come to some conclusion here from this debate that this law has to be brought into practice so that it is practically applicable. And I don't want this one to be right either in Karlovac or in Gorica or here, but the citizens and Karlovac and Gorica and Zagreb pay as much as they pay for what they unfortunately can't pay in view of their incomes. And that was the intention of my debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, so without intent on calling but with the intention of speaking openly about the problems that are. We could have spoken a great excateral law is great, it's in line with EU legislation, the directives require that this be separated to bring this together to regulate this to be on the market and that would be great. But life’s problems are completely different and we in this House sometimes have to talk about these problems without accusing each other because if we accuse each other, then we run away from the problem. And that's the point of the whole story. And whoever didn't do something doesn't need someone to stick it in his forehead, he knows it himself, no one should tell him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42370	The last line will be presented by dear colleague Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42371	Dear fellow Shuker, here I want to relate myself to you or to the part where you stand out over the high costs of the family that are attached to the heat. So I want to tell you that my family, and I believe a good part of 50% of the other Croatian families that are not connected to the heat, would be very happy to pay these thousand kunas because our monthly costs during the winter months for heating are climbing and on several thousand kunas, and that is also a fact that should be kept in mind. Yeah, they're very high heating costs but it can always be worse and you know it yourself. And as for what you said about thermofasade, I wanted to point out that in the UK, they developed very, very good models and I would say excellent models of combating energy poverty, given that in the good part of the EU, more and more energy poverty and energy costs for the average population are rising above 15% of the total budget. And they developed ESCO models in a way where heat suppliers finance thermofasades, energy inefficient buildings, and consumers pay over a certain number of years the difference in that investment through the difference in heat savings. And I am sure that liberalisation in general of the energy market in Croatia may also lead to similar projects, and we will also have an increase in energy efficiency which is the most important goal that we must achieve in this part of the heat energy towards the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42372	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42373	My colleague Holly, in principle, we agree because I didn't talk about individual units at all, I live in a private house, so I'm not one of those people who lives in an apartment to make it look like I'm defending it. but I mentioned those who at this point, given all the together, have no practical choice of options. He doesn't care if he has a closed radiator or if he doesn't have a salary equal. We at home can regulate certain things as much as we spend, as much as you want to walk in a short sleeve shirt around the house, etc. That's how much you're gonna pay the bill. Therefore, we have opportunities here even though, ultimately, citizens living individually in family homes pay the price and ineffectiveness of the energy sector because most of these heats are connected to the gas consumption of the gas of the interested distributor, when you negotiate with someone outside, given the quantity, you certainly get it. So these are the purely economic categories, and ultimately it would come to you and me and all the other citizens who have this kind of gas paying it cheaper. So I'm glad we agreed here and I'm glad I started the topic, I didn't want to talk about it anymore because you'll probably talk about it more because you're more professional about these thermofasades. I just mentioned some buildings in Zagreb, with me in Gorica or somewhere else that that can of a few centimeters or what you have in those famous buildings in most Croatian cities can't be some kind of thermoinstor. But if a ten-centimeter Styrofoam were put in there, I am sure that these 900 or thousand kuna bills would go down to some 300, 400 kuna and then surely the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would want this part of the difference that they would make to participate in something. But there's a need to be made possible given all this together to get into that position. Because they're simply not citizens against something, they just need to be given the opportunity to pay for something that they can really pay for right now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42374	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative, Mirela Holy, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42375	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives and representatives of the government. At the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP on the final proposal of the Law on the Market in Heat Energy, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law, which brings Croatian legislation into line with the so-called "SDP". the third European energy package consisting of two directives and three regulations. Directives on common rules for the internal market in electricity, Directives on common rules for the internal market in natural gas, Regulation establishing an Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, Regulation on conditions of access to the network for cross-border exchange of electricity and Regulation on conditions of access to natural gas networks. Unfortunately, we do this almost at the last minute, about 15 days before Croatia enters the European Union. The third package of European Union energy regulations, as I mentioned earlier, consists of two directives and three regulations aimed at creating a single European energy market in the electricity and natural gas sector. To enable final customers to choose suppliers and to protect socially sensitive customers effectively. In order to achieve those objectives, it is necessary to effectively separate regulated or network-based activities, i.e. production of energy supplies, and to enable the market formation of prices and an effective level of regulatory oversight. In the SDP Club, we stress that the adaptation to the third European energy package must not only be the result of the European Union's request, i.e. contractual commitments made in the accession negotiations process with the European Union, but must be a genuine desire for the Republic of Croatia itself to establish a more modern and business-efficient energy sector. The whole adjustment process should therefore be seen as an opportunity for the energy sector to be properly regulated as an extremely important and pro-pulsive business branch and for the entire energy sector to be established on market and sustainable principles. Unfortunately, the current situation, which the government led by the SDP, has inherited from the previous two HDZ-led governments, is not good in the Croatian energy sector and characterises the following. Not the investor's interest in investing in the energy sector, and the evidence is that most potential private partners are giving up on the Plomin thermal power plant project, indicating insufficient quality of project preparation and what HEP wants. The approval of the construction of energy facilities is still extremely complicated and burdensome with administrative requirements that make matters worse are not resolved within the legal deadlines and therefore it is very necessary to pass the Law on renewable energy sources as soon as possible. ... The price is not marketable, there is no quality and sustainable system for the protection of socially endangered customers and there is no real possibility of changing the energy suppliers and the entire energy sector in Croatia is still dominated by two companies INA and HEP, i.e. companies that are extracted from these systems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the SDP Club, we stress that there are inherited problems that cannot be changed by the mere change of legal regulation but the adoption of new legislation and the raising of efficiency from the quality of the work of the public authority, the state and local administrations are the first steps in the right direction and the proposal for a law that we are now discussing is one of the important stages on that path. Several years of unhappiness, favoration and obstruction to the monopoly of two energy companies have a high import dependence on the Republic of Croatia, as the Republic of Croatia is as all known to us among the largest gross imports of electricity in Europe. These insufficient levels of investment in both classical and renewable energy sources. In order to better understand the extent of the problem, it is enough to say that 100 megawatts were built in thermal power plants and 45 megawatts in hydropower plants, which is less than 15 megawatts per year or 0.35% of the total installed capacity of the electricity sector. At the same time, praise was built for valuable but insufficient 70 megawatts of wind power plants. On the contrary, by 2020, 110 megawatts in thermal power plants will be out of the plant on average, which will further increase the dependence of the Republic of Croatia on imports. To change such an unfavourable state, it is necessary to reform... The energy sector has become a competitive and sustainable energy supply secure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The energy sector must be based on market principles and be open to the region and the world and integrated into Europe's internal market. It is precisely these objectives and principles that advocate and seek the Directives of the third energy package of the European Union. In the SDP Club, we believe that the energy sector is an important infrastructure and entrepreneurship activity with strong external economies that promote economic growth and employment. Sustainable development and environmental protection are inevitable in the development of the energy sector. And ignoring these facts will cause unmistakable not only ecological but economic damage to Croatia. At no time should we forget that the non-compliance with the obligations of the third European energy package brings also the payment of very serious financial foams. After this reference to the overall energy blood count of Croatia, I note that although the provisions of the aforementioned Directives of the third European energy package do not directly refer to the thermal systems which are the subject of this final bill, the Directive indirectly refers to the principles of the development of the heat energy market. In other words, the market for thermal energy also introduces market principles, supply and production of heat into market activities, and the distribution of heat is just like electricity and in the gas sector regulated activity. This law also prescribes ways to protect customers, but what is extremely important is the ability to manage consumption through the heat divider that we must put into operation by the end of 2015. The strengthening of consumer rights by this law is ensured by the obligation to deliver heat in accordance with standard quality conditions and the right to information on the conditions of supply of heat. The common European energy goal, which has also been integrated into the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which we have discussed and adopted in the previous Parliament's summit, is to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 20% by 2020, which is an area where Croatia has a strong helmet for most European countries. Namely, energy intensity, i.e. Energy consumption per GDP unit in Croatia is even twice as high as in the members of the European Union. Compared to the average energy intensity in Europe, energy intensity in the Republic of Croatia increased by 11.8%. This suggests that Croatia is very late in energy efficiency for members of the European Union. Heat energy has an extremely high potential for increasing the energy efficiency of Croatia, i.e. raising energy efficiency in construction. The buildings are the largest energy consumers in Croatia and therefore, just in the realisation of energy efficiency projects in construction, large energy, economic and environmental savings can be achieved because over half of the building's energy needs are the need for space heating. Without a doubt, the large share of energy efficiency and construction is related to improving the thermal insulation of buildings, but the high potential and more efficient use of heat energy alone is achieved by applying the heat divider. The heat dividers can achieve large savings. Some analyses show that between 30% and even 70% of heat consumption. The modern heat divider is used for the distribution of heat energy costs, the heat element's emissions account and the SDP club welcomes Articles 33, 50 and 52 relating to the installation obligation of the heat divisor as a very efficient instrument for raising energy efficiency in construction. In the SDP club, we hope that the competent institutions will ensure the full application of this law and thus bring us closer to the realization of energy targets because this law must not remain a dead letter on paper. After the adoption of this law, we will have a legal instrument, and the quality and efficiency of the public authority depends on whether this legal instrument will also become an actual instrument for meeting important energy, environmental and economic objectives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42376	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42377	Dear colleague Holly, at one point you said these are the problems you're talking about are inherited problems. I think you're a little contradictory here because you remember, as soon as Kukuriku's government came into power, the coalition rose great dust about what you were talking about, about building, about raising energy efficiency, and then the journalists wrote this conveniently about zigzagging buildings, and then you announced for half of 2012 a major blow, or raising energy efficiency, and it was like one of the pompously announced economic, economic projects. But what happened, nothing happened. So it's not inherited, we've already inherited this from you, we've inherited it from you, you've inherited it from yourself. The other thing is, you were also discussing Plomin, trying to solve Plomin. It's just talk about Plomin, it's standing there, and it's taping in place. What about Plomin, your government is going to commit a great deal of fornication around that Plomin, so what happens after all? Nothing's going on. Therefore, I agree with my colleague Shucker, he should not be in the second year, and soon there will be two years of this government, talking about inherited problems without pointing to his own weaknesses, and the weaknesses of this government as regards the energy sector are more than obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42378	The replica matches myrella holy's colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42379	Dear counterpart Vuksic, I agree with you on energy efficiency in construction, and the fact is that the remaining results as expected by the government are related to this project which can talk about that the project has been quite badly set up, but there are therefore opportunities for some things to be solved in walking and to change the model and I think that models can be changed by the basis of certain experiences of other countries in the European Union. I believe we'll do the same. As for the TE Plomin project itself, I was talking about it and it was a criticism definitely in my debate. The fact is that the project is not best prepared, but let us release by the 10th month until the deadline for binding offers expires, so we will see whether this project will go into realisation or not, but the fact is that there are certain structural problems in HEP that cannot be solved overnight. I hope, too, that by the end of the term of office, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, however, significantly improve the situation in HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42380	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42381	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Holly, it's not all that black because of the former governments. I'll just make an example of HEP and INA. You're talking about monopoly, INA already practically at the time when it had no strategic interest and importance does not control more than 50% of the oil and derivatives markets. Also in many units of local self-government you have local gas distributors, so it's hard to talk about their monopoly. But when we talk about HEP, we forget that after the Homeland War, we lost a few thousand kilometers of power lines, and we can talk about tens of thousands of kilometers of low voltage grids. And it's all restored from HEP's funds, from the State budget. Take a look at the state budget, and you'll see through the Ministry of Regional Development how much is released annually. So hep and the question arises whether or not we even raised him up by the stairs two up should have left him to the game. Someone swallow it tomorrow? This is one big question, one big questionnaire that will remain over both this House and Croatia. So it's easy to go to the market only if we've prepared a player for the market. That's the key question. So, as far as INA and HEP are concerned, the uninterest of investors. Well, Croatia's biggest problem is building infrastructure because it is necessary to build strong, strong kilometres and relatively small consumer numbers. And then the product unit that you sell is extremely expensive and that's why you don't have investors except for big cities. Well, after all, we do this highway, PLINACRO makes it a highway to Dalmatia. Why didn't anyone answer outside to build that bus pipeline? He'll report after five or six years when he sees how many connections he has and knows how much gas he'll be able to sell. But in such a uncertain investment, no one from the outside will come safe. Therefore, let us not keep talking about someone else’s fault, and about Plomin and Ombli can be written especially in the last year and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42382	The replica matches Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42383	Well, I have to admit, I'm pretty surprised by HDZ's later wisdom. In fact, we had the opportunity to discuss it on the Committee on Economy and when there were other energy laws, and then it turned out, at least that's how I understood it from the discussion of most of the representatives on the HDZ quota committee that HDZ advocates things for the application of the TSI model. Is that right? You had the chance to think while you were in power to implement, i.e. to enter into the legislation the TSO model oxy times so you didn't do it. And you didn't do it because you were under direct pressure from a certain lobby from HEP. Unfortunately, these lobbies are very strong, and I'm afraid that any ruling set doesn't remain immune to these pressures from HEP. And what the liberalisation of transmission and distribution will look like will only be seen after Croatia enters the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42384	The Croatian Labourers – working parties and representatives of Zlatko Tušak are now coming. And I'm sorry, that's where the papers are all wrong. HNS and colleague Natalija Martincevic, I'm sorry. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42385	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit this debate as a review of the law. However, here are some topics which are certainly the most important of which are the ones opened by counsel Shuker, which is that our citizens pay very much, the vast majority of them, and that is actually the basic question of how to establish a model of how to pay citizens towards consumers. I must say, I agree with most of the debate and with questions. However, I would have two questions here. So the first is why it wasn't done by it that didn't apply only to you, but to all why nothing's been done in the last 20 years. And another question with all the problems we know and who we are aware of are actually the solutions that we offer to improve this system. Because today we can really discuss all day all the problems our citizens have, but it would be good to talk from this pay phone about some solutions that may be possible for the existing system to improve. On the other hand, MP Holly's debate also agreed she was very well aware that Croatia is one of the biggest energy importers. And as long as we are importers of energy, we can almost have no effect on the price and of course it's important to establish our own production, to create our own capacities. Because it's the only way we can affect the price. And I am truly very sorry that all of these very serious intentions from the beginning of this government are being implemented very slowly and that, with all the projects that have been given, they may not have been perfectly imagined but they existed, they have been placed, unfortunately, with many obstructions, none of them have yet set out correctly. I believe that both the Government and the Ministry of Economy, with all the obstructions that exist, will nevertheless take a more proactive position and start to realise these projects. 'Cause like I said, the only way to do it is to make our own energy supply is to lower prices. As regards energy recovery as a model of government may be, I do not know what practice is in the rest of Croatia. However, I must say that we in Varazdin have applied it extremely well. Namely, we have reported all our urban kindergartens, two schools and urban reconstruction pools according to the energy efficiency model. The competitions have been successfully held and in three weeks we are going to rebuild and kindergartens, so all schools and schools and city swimming pools. You know, if you know the model that this is about, then we're renovating public institutions at no cost at the expense of local self-government units. So it's a good model, and it would be good if the other units of local self-government applied it that way. And now for the law. Therefore, this law is adopted as a continuation of the harmonisation of energy laws with market principles that have been incorporated into the new four Croatian energy laws, which are of course in line with the third EU energy law package, but the reason for the adoption of this law is also the installation of an EU energy efficiency directive that came into force at the end of 2012. I think it is extremely positive that the public debate over this law has lasted since the start of the third month and that they have actively participated in it and made their remarks and proposals and representatives of the Croatian Regulatory Agency, the Energy Institute "Croatia Pozar", the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Heatmakers, employers' associations, residents' associations, the Union of Cities and municipalities, consumer associations and others, which is certainly important in the adoption of such an important law. This law... energy activities and relations in the heat market also regulate certain important issues related to energy efficiency, which, of course, saves for end-users as the most important position and, of course, reducing negative environmental impacts. Buildings as the largest individual energy consumers today represent a great potential for energy, economic and ecological savings because over half of the energy needs of buildings make up the need for heating and heating of hot water. For this reason, the law has three basic directions, namely the regulation of energy production in production systems, i.e. the simultaneous production of electricity and heat in the unique technological process, the planning of heat systems in the energy sector and the installation of measurement of heat consumption in apartments in which all apartments must be equipped by 2016. And here I might actually ask for an additional clarification, i.e. an explanation of the way in which the means of which this is meant by 2016 are operationally and implemented. The law introduces a new area to edit the so-called the potential for efficiency in heating and cooling as an obligation to plan heating and cooling. In this context, each investor's commitment to a new electrical heat generation facility with a total installed power exceeding 20MW is determined in order to reduce costs and increase the benefits of the plant's work must be designed and built as highly efficient facilities. The proposal for this law also introduces newspapers in relation to the activity of the buyer which can be carried out by a legal and natural person and who buys energy for the owner of the building for the production of heat. In which case, a representative of the co-owners shall be designated to apply to the buyer for the activity of the buyer by the basis of a decision by the majority of the votes of the co-owners, which shall be accounted for by co-owners, and not by the number of co-owners, and if most of the votes of the co-owners cannot be reached, the court shall decide in an extra-party procedure. I also have to give an example here from Varazdin because, as in other cities, there is this serious problem of buildings that have boiler rooms and therefore have very high directing. A lot of them wanted to move on to the floor heating, not all the tenants agreed, nothing could be done. We have been extremely engaged as a city and agreed with Termoplin to implement the network for free, also agreed to co-finance interest on loans that people took, and that it made it easier for them to move on to gentle heating, and that we actually made one shift that people had seriously reduced their directors by moving on to thorough heating. This is also regulated by the possibility of singleing out a final buyer located on a common standard of heat energy with the fulfilment of the tax on those conditions. Decisions of this law, namely to rebuild buildings, introduce individual measurements of heat consumption, investment in production, investment in existing energy facilities in existing industrial plants, rebuilding the distribution network, therefore all these are elements which will certainly contribute to increasing energy efficiency and reducing the costs of heat production activities with quality application. And that's why the HNS club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42386	Thank you. We'll have a break by 3:00. Croatian Labourers' representative Zlatko Tušak will continue. Bon appetit!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42387	Dear fellow MPs, we continue with the plenary session, the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament with the topic which was the morning Final Proposal of the Law on the Market in Heat Energy. The Club of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak is next. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42388	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the ministry, few colleagues and fellow MPs. The law on the heat market that is ahead of us harmonizes with EU legislation and not only that part of which must be harmonised Croatian Labourists believe it is very important that it regulates and determines energy consumption and energy savings. The energy consumption time must be behind us, and we must start to behave responsibly in this area. We must seriously think about saving and preserving the environment and do something because it is necessary but to take care of the possibilities of citizens, can they bear what we offer them. The bad economic situation and the social situation among citizens when citizens barely survive is around 1/3 on the edge of poverty. The question arises whether this law will add to them or enable them to settle their costs more easily and live better. The increase in costs under this law will inevitably come because the market will be left to independent systems, heat that heat one facility and closed systems that involve heat with a maximum of 500 heated buildings and up to 2,000 metres of heat grid. And only the third type of central heat systems that exist in large cities will continue to be regulated practically will not be freely formed on the market. Simplification, citizens who have heating organized their facility has heat as well as those smaller independent systems themselves will negotiate the price of heating with individual suppliers. The market price will certainly be higher than those who pay citizens today, and a rise in price could be more significant as well as a new blow to citizens' standards. In the absence of real economic reasons whether such a decision is justified or not, it is likely that because it is said by some experts in this area and that, without an increase in the price of heat, there is no economic justification. It may be so, and there may be other reasons to talk about how heat and the overall economy would relieve some unnecessary burdens but also make it more rational and efficient in its business. And that's why we have to ask ourselves a question, if there's no room for what's been done on that other plan, which is the wages that should somehow follow the cost of living to make it easier for citizens to bear the inevitable purchases and to endure constant declines in living standards. I wonder what's been done on a bigger job? I have to say nothing but some seasonal affairs that are only straws to save individuals without any greater security in the future. So there will again be many who will be dissatisfied with the application of this law because it will not make any relief, although it essentially offers some good solutions when we talk about saving energy, but we believe that not enough. It won't mean much to the citizens if they have more energy savings, and they pay it more through a higher price. We will practically have less consumption, and greater spending which clearly will not be good for the citizens but also further impact on their standard. We must remember the problem of heating in Karlovac and Vukovar where the tenants fought the battle with heats over the high price of heating and the problem of detachment from the high price system couldn't pay. There will be more and more cases like this if we do not create conditions that citizens can and can earn enough to pay for their obligations. Under this law, each housing unit will have to have a separate device for measuring heat consumption and such a legal obligation has never existed before, but it is estimated that somewhere around 60,000 consumers already have built-in thermostatic valves and divisors. Although this is how savings should be achieved by some estimates and up to 30%, heat consumption has different experiences that it is not so and that the funds are not paid very well because some costs have even increased and this clearly depends on some other factors. The average cost of the thermostatic valve he was talking about and fellow Shucker is moving somewhere around 500 kuna and the devices should not be those that are the most expensive and if the state and wants them to be in some way in a trend of time and more modern and expensive, it must also take over part of the financial obligations and not put them on the back of citizens. It is necessary to find a model to help citizens and should not reveal hot water in heat because in most European Union countries they use cheaper devices and somewhere it moves in 95% of cases. They pay the advances twice a year, read the devices and then make the final reckoning. I have a feeling that with our proposals, we impose expensive systems of visibility because this is probably how it suits interested groups of Croatian distributors and at least thinks about the most important ones, which is for the citizens of consumers and whether they can support it and pay for it. Why not let them decide which devices they want to have and only meet the technical conditions for precise visibility. Digital regulators that should serve and save energy prevent overheating did not revive and losses are large and all ultimately paid by tenants of consumers. As the costs of installation are borne by the users themselves and only in a small number so far has the installation been co-financed through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund or local self-government units, solutions should be found to help citizens and which would not be able to bear that part of the burden. It was about this talk that, for example, somewhere in a 50-square apartment, the cost should be about 2 thousand kuna, which makes about 37% of the average salary paid in the last year. And when we talk about those with minimum wages and small pensions better say they certainly won't be able to finance it. It is precisely the financial expenditures so far have been an obstacle for citizens not to opt for this investment. Thus, part of the householder paid heat to individual consumption and part to the surface of the apartment, which was the worst solution. The law provides that by the end of 2015 the installation obligation of heat measurement devices and divisors is to have all buildings with more than 70 independent usage units connected to the thermal system. And by the end of 2016, a deadline for buildings with two and more individual uses is foreseen. The prescribed penalties for non-compliance are 10 thousand to 50 thousand kuna per apartment. I must ask the question of what will happen to those who are unable to install the devices by that deadline because they do not have any financial opportunities to do so. We forget about the unemployed, the retired and the low-income ones. Although I must say that there are many positive solutions in the law, such as that apartment owners will directly sign individual contracts with heats rather than more representatives of co-owners, creating mutual obligations and responsibilities. But there are also some bad solutions that should be improved in any case in the further phase, and in particular Article 45, which should be much simpler in order to enable end-users to make it easier to get out of the system if they do not want more heating and thus avoid the problems we are facing lately. I also ask myself why a common system needs the votes of most co-ownerships, why wouldn't that right be an individual's right and why does a user have to pay something and even if he can't and some other majority decides not himself? Paragraph 2 of the same Article of the Law states that the building can be excluded from the system with the consent of the distributor. This means that distributors will be the ones who decide, not the users, and will be left to the mercy of the distributor. Therefore, with some good solutions, there are also solutions that will cause further problems for citizens. Croatian Labourists will support this law, but in any case it must be kept in a further phase of concern for citizens, not in a way that we also bring them into some kind of an unexplainable situation with certain laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42389	Thank you, too. By doing so, we have exhausted the list of representatives clubs in the Croatian Parliament who are applying for discussion on this topic. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate on this subject. That's how we exhausted the list of agents. Will the Proposer's representative be final? No, I don't. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We will vote on the final draft of the law when the conditions are met. We are going with the Final Proposal for a Law on the Market for Heat Energy, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 372. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Okay. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 100 votes in favour, 2 abstentions have been passed by the Heat Energy Market Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42392	Your Honor, your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. On the day of Croatia's accession to full membership of the European Union, Regulation 1025/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on European standardisation, which is a regulated area of standardisation, will apply directly in the Republic of Croatia. This law regulates normisation in the Republic of Croatia under the conditions of application of Regulation 1025 of the European Parliament and of the Council on European standardisation, lays down the framework for the implementation of that Regulation, as well as the competent authority for the implementation of the same Regulation and defines the concepts in the field of standardisation, principles and objectives, the establishment and activity of the Croatian Standardized Body, the general conditions of membership in the Croatian Standardized Body, the preparation, acceptance and publication of Croatian Standards and the financing of the Croatian Normalised Body. The competent authority for the implementation of Regulation 1025/2012 on European standardisation is the Croatian Institute for Standards. The Croatian Institute for Standards as a Croatian normative body established the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a regulation establishing the Croatian Institute for Standards. Its activities shall be to carry out in accordance with the rules of the European normative bodies based on Article 5(4). Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). Regulations establishing the Croatian Bureau of Standards. The constitutional rules applicable to national norms must be fully in line with the way the organisation works, voluntary normisations applied to the price or valuer, which was also one of the criteria for closing Chapter 1-Freedom of the movement of goods. The Croatian Institute for Standards and for Professional Work on Voluntary Standardisation is completely independent and independent in its work and has fully adapted its professional work to the rules of European standardisation. The Croatian Bureau of Standards represents the Republic of Croatia as a full member and the International Organisation for Standardisation, the International Electrical Commission, the European Committee on Standardisation and the European Committee on Electrical Standardisation, as well as other bodies dealing with.... Croatia's normisation is based on the principles of voluntary participation of all stakeholders in the process of preparing and accepting Croatian norms and voluntary application of Croatian standards, consensus on the content of Croatian norms, public work at all stages, preparation of norms and information to the public on normisation work, preventing the overcoming of individual interests over the common interest of the mutual compliance of Croatian norms and taking into account the achieved state of technique and the results of European and international normisation. By promoting the role of normisation at national, European and international level, its ongoing development achieves the quality and competitiveness of the Croatian economy, facilitates the exit of quality Croatian products to the European and international markets, participates in meeting the requirements for membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union and the obligations that the Republic of Croatia will have as a member of the Union. The following shows that the aim of normisation as well as active participation in its processes is to develop the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in the international and European markets, improve product safety, protect health and safety at work, protect the environment, nature and protection of consumers, and develop legislation and technical infrastructure, enabling freedom of movement of goods on the single European market as adequate results in the internal market of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law respects the specificity of the time and process of Croatia's accession to the European Union and allows for the flexible adaptation of domestic legislation to the legislation of the European Union and the direct application of the European Union regulation after the accession of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42393	Thank you, Your Honor. Do the rapporteurs of the Croatian Parliament Committee want to present a report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and Honorable Representative Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42394	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here, in the sphere of legislation that means adapting our legislation to European legislation, and this law on standardisation is, although when it comes to its content in relation to the existing Standardisation Act, we believe that these changes could have been implemented through amendments and additions, but more or less. The law is here and, as has been said, it is a alignment with European Union legislation to adopt a new regulation of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council on European standardisation 1025/2012. So the norm develops on condition that there is a real need, it must be applicable and be the result of consensus and agreement, full of involvement of all interested shit in the activities of normisation. It should certainly be pointed out that norms must be planned, updated, especially in the field of fast-growing technologies, so as not to prevent the flow of new ideas, and if the norm is too early to determine the design of a method or how the preparation of the norm would not start too late. The normisation or activity of setting up provisions for general and repeated use relating to existing or possible problems in order to achieve a better degree of arrangements is intended to ensure the conformity of a product, process or service for placing it on a given market and under the conditions of any market. In national and international contexts, it seeks to move towards the production of standard or standardised goods, i.e. in the context of globalisation processes. those goods which meet the pre-set requirements regarding all essential characteristics, composition, weight, appearance, mechanical properties, dimensions and quality properties in general. The normisation provides the best technical and economic solutions for products and processes, enables the introduction of specialisation and production cooperatives, determines methods for testing product quality, introduces rationalisation in the production process and thus restricts and abolishes both outdated and unusable dimensions types. For these reasons, it is also important for the economy. The main interest, i.e. the main holder of normisation, is certainly the industry that initiates changes in this area and is also financing these processes. Furthermore, internationalisation of standards for a number of practical reasons, from economic to technical and quality requirements achieves a reduction of environmental and security risks, increases the quality and reliability of materials and products and increases the flow of goods and market liberalisation. So without norms, there would be no globalisation. Is she good or isn't that probably another time? The main objective of internationalisation of standards is to avoid protectionism, create a single market and spread the latest technical and technological knowledge. It also achieves a certain degree of consumer protection because if some of the products on the market do not meet the standards in terms of negative effects on human health, they are withdrawn. This is what we were aware of in European markets, but of course with us. However, it is likely that the very act of entering the common European market of norms for both consumers and for our exporters, of course, will mean whether or not they are, and for consumers, there is certainly a certain guarantee that there is no import and there is not everything on the shelves. The regulation provides again for the establishment of a Croatian standardisation body. Maybe it was an opportunity to define everything right away in the law. But here is a solution that has so far been predicted that in the same way the government brings to the future. So I assume that the Croatian Institute for Standards will be re-formed, that the statute will be governed by how they will function and will continue to perform their role and function as it has so far and will, of course, enable all Croatian economic operators to be competitive on the European market by introducing and accepting both European and Croatian standards. Thank you very much. We'll pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42395	Thank you, Your Honor. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42396	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. According to the Croatian Bureau of Standards, the document was adopted by consensus and approved by a recognised body which provides rules, instructions or characteristics for the activity or their results with the aim of achieving the best degree of order in the given context, meaning that standards should be based on verified scientific, technical and experience results and should be aimed at promoting the best advantages for society. While normisation is the activity of establishing provisions for general and repeated use relating to existing or possible problems in order to achieve the best degree of order in the given context. The standardisation law was passed 10 years ago in order to bring our legislation in the field of standardisation with the EU acquis in chapter 1 of the freedom of movement of goods. This law harmonizes the principles and objectives of Croatian normisation, organisation and action, as well as the preparation and publication of Croatian norms. A Croatian national normative body was also established. The Croatian Institute for Standards is an independent and non-profit public institution established as the national normative body of the Republic of Croatia to achieve the objectives of normisation, which are: increasing the level of safety of products and processes, preserving human health and life, and protecting the environment, promoting the quality of products, processes and services, ensuring a meaningful use of work, materials and energy, improving production efficiency, limiting diversity, ensuring compatibility and exchangeability and ultimately removing technical barriers in international trade. At its meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 17 October 2012, it concluded with regard to information relating to changes in the process of harmonising Croatia's legislation with EU regulations in terms of future membership of our country in the EU, which has been entrusted by the authorities of the state administration and other competent authorities to carry out the procedure of analysis of the positive national rules in which the normative content of the EU Regulation has been adopted, which have a direct effect in the conditions of EU membership with the aim of identifying the amendments and adjustments to be implemented in the national legislation until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia. Following that obligation, the above analysis has been carried out and it has been established that from 1 July 2013 in the field of standardisation, the EU Regulation will apply directly. 1025/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on European standardisation laying down rules relating to cooperation between European standardisation organisations, national norms and standardisation bodies of the Member States of the Commission. Pardon me, normisation for products and services in support of EU legislation and policies. Identification of technical specifications in the ICT area which meet the conditions for reference to them, and the financing of European standardisation and participation of stakeholders in European standardisation. In essence, the paper in relation to the applicable law presents that provision on the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to advertise the European Commission on the Croatian National Normal Authority. In accordance with the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Bureau of Standards have joined the adjustment of the legislative framework in this area of standardisation. It is also not necessary to provide additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the proposed law. Therefore, the SDP club will support the final draft legislation on standardisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42397	Thank you, Your Honor. We've exhausted a list of clubs to discuss on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It's the honorary representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42398	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President, for the representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The importance of the proposal for this legal solution is read from the definition of the mission of the Croatian Institute for Standards, and as already said here. Because by promoting the role and importance of standardisation at national European and international level and its continuing development, the Croatian Institute for Standards contributes to the quality and competitiveness of the Croatian economy, facilitates the exit of quality Croatian products to the international market and participates in meeting the requirements for Croatia's membership in the EU and the obligations that the Republic of Croatia will have as a member of the EU. Regulation (EC) No 1025/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for the assumption that all stakeholders are actively involved in the standardisation process in all stages of the development of norms, which is particularly insisted by the European Commission. These are the following stages: proposing and accepting new work projects, technical discussions on the project proposal, submitting comments on drafts, participating in periodic examinations of existing European norms or other standardisation documents, spreading information and building awareness of accepted European norms or norms. This implementation also allows for a clearer respect for the principle of normisation, consensus as a general consensus, which is characterized by the absence of strong opposition to essential content by a significant part of the stakeholders and by a process in which all stakeholders are sought to take into account the views of all stakeholders and to coordinate the conflicting views, noting that consensus does not necessarily have to mean unanimity. The inclusion of all stakeholders as a democratic process for the preparation of norms assumes the inclusion of all who have the right to participate and to make their contribution to making a norm in order to apply it voluntarily. The public work as a process of preparing the norm must be made available to the public from its beginning and at all stages. At the beginning of the preparation that norms in the body which prepares the document which serves as the basis for its preparation and the stages of preparation such as the debate on the draft norm and the publication of norms, the public must be informed in an appropriate manner. A degree of technology development in the days of time based on verified scientific, technical and experience knowledge can be said that norm defines the state of the technique. The consistency of the norm collection, the set of norms must be coherent, norms cannot be contradictory. By bringing in a new standard for which the subject of an old standard is withdrawn. The Croatian Bureau of Standards is obliged to encourage and accelerate the adequate representation of all stakeholders, including SMEs, organisations and consumers, environmental protection associations and social associations in their standardisation activities. The European Commission's view is that the main holder of standardisation is the industry that initiates changes in this area and is also funding these processes. The basic principle is that standardisation must be in the service of increasing the competitiveness and information of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs on the issue of standardisation and standardisation processes. In this respect, HZN must allow for more active participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in standardisation projects and in the following ways: to identify projects from the annual work plan which are of particular interest for small and medium-sized enterprises, to enable access to small and medium-sized enterprises to standardise work, whether or not they are formal members of the HZN, to provide free access and with special fees for participation in normisation activities, to enable free access to norms, to enable on their website the review of the introductory summary of each standard without charge, to apply specific discounts to the purchase of certain norms or groups at reduced prices. The Croatian Bureau of Standards except for its own incomes, which account for about 30% of the total funding, is financed from the state budget. This requires supervision and control of the spending of these funds in order for the Croatian Bureau of Standards to achieve the objectives and fulfil the tasks for which it was established. The Croatian Bureau of Standards must fulfil the obligations of membership in European and international standardisation organisations and fulfil legal obligations under the laws of the Republic of Croatia and the harmonised EU legislation. The Croatian Bureau of Standards has 173 active technical committees with about 2600 members from industry, engineering chambers, scientific and educational institutions, structural associations and state administration bodies. By 31 December 2012, 28730 normative documents were published, and currently around 95% of European standards are accepted in the Croatian standardisation system. Since 1 July 2013, when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the EU, budgets amounting to 12 to 13 million kuna will be intended exclusively for the activities of standardisation. Despite unfavourable financial opportunities, special attention should be paid to improving the expertise of the employees of the technical committees and representatives at European and international level, and further open to the public through websites, lectures, seminars and education. This legislative proposal regulates normisation and lays down a framework for the implementation of Regulation 1025/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on European standardisation, thus ensuring that the objectives of Croatian standardisation are met by increasing the level of safety of products and processes, protecting human health and life and protecting the environment, promoting product quality, processes and services, ensuring meaningful use of work, materials and energy, improving production efficiency by limiting diversity, ensuring compatibility and exchangeability and removing technical barriers in international trade. This legislative proposal should therefore be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42399	Thank you, Your Honor. Your debate closed the debate on the text of the final draft law. We'll vote when the terms of this law are met. Final draft law on normisation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 362. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 102 votes for the adopted Standardisation Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42402	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. On the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia, the EU Regulation 765/2008. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 764 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2008 laying down procedures relating to the application of certain national technical rules to products lawfully placed on the market of other Member States will act directly on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This law lays down the framework and provides for the conditions for the implementation of those Regulations, the competent authorities and the tasks of the competent authorities and national provisions are laid down to ensure the safety, protection of lives and human health, domestic animals and plants, and the protection of the environment and nature, as well as the protection of consumers and other users. The law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment is fundamental and so on. the horizontal law in the field of technical legislation. This means that this law constitutes a broad legal framework for the adoption of a series of sublegal acts, which, as a general rule, the heads of the central authorities of the state administrations adopt regulations governing the placing on the market of products covered by the directives of the new approach and the directives of the old approach. This law prescribes a way of prescribing technical requirements for products which must, for example, be met. lifts, low voltage equipment, pressure equipment and pressure vessels, aerosol sprayers, personal protective equipment, textiles, shoes, crystal glass, etc., but this law also provides a legal basis for the adoption of non-harmonised technical regulations. Regulations that do not comply with EU legislation as well as rules on regular extraordinary product checks in use. Furthermore, this law prescribes a presumption of compliance with the prescribed technical requirements. Where the product complies with the relevant harmonised standards, the obligation of economic operators to comply with the roles of the supply chain, the minimum specific requirements that must be met by conformity assessment bodies and the obligation to establish a committee to monitor but also an authorised conformity assessment body shall meet for the whole duration of the authorisation of the prescribed requirements, consisting of at least three members of which at least one of them will be representative of the National Accreditation Authority. This law also provides for a transitional period in which documents on conformity and marking C for products placed on the market until the day of Croatia's accession will be valid in the territory of the Republic of Croatia until the expiry of the stocks of those products and for a maximum period of two years from the date of placing on the market in order to avoid negative entry into force of new harmonised rules with Union legislation as well as directly applicable EU rules. The aim is to facilitate economic operators to adapt to EU requirements when placing products on the market. The application of the Technical Requirements Act for products and conformity assessment will allow for further strengthening of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in such a way that the market will place products that will be safe and meet the criteria of European standardisation, which will allow for better protection of the safety of human life and health, animals and plants, the environment and property. This law will reflect positively on the future development of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia quality infrastructure, which will also contribute to further development and strengthening of the competitiveness of the economy, as the products tested in the Republic of Croatia will be able to circulate freely within the EU single market even when the regulations of other Member States that cover the area in question are different from the rules of the Republic of Croatia i.e. in the case of national non-harmonised regulations. In this way, the cost of placing Croatian products on the EU single market will be reduced and will allow Croatia's economies a significantly favourable position in a demanding competitive fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42403	Thank you too, Deputy. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the HDZ's Club of Representatives and the Honorable Representative, Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42404	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is part of a package of this law that is attached to the law that we discussed just before. I think that with regard to the importance and attention that should be given to these topics, I mean, in the context of the interest of the economy and the importance of the economy, it's probably one of the most important ones, except for those tax laws that are here, which may cause a lot more attention when they're on the agenda. However, this really speaks of how in the future entrepreneurship infrastructure will be regulated in terms of coordination and the obligations of the economic operators to bring their products in line with all technical requirements and that we have bodies that are capable of assessing that compliance, if we understand that correctly. It is therefore also important for this regulation to be made in quality but also to be applied in quality. Therefore, the Act on Technical Requirements for Products and the Assessment of Consensus is governed by this law by the way in which technical requirements are prescribed for products and conformity assessment procedures with the prescribed requirements, and the adoption of regulations whereby the heads of the central authorities of the State Administration for certain products or groups of products are more detailedly governed by the technical requirements which must meet the products. The rights and obligations of economic operators which place products on the market or at the disposal of conformity assessment procedures, rights and obligations of the bodies implementing the conformity assessment procedures of the product with technical requirements, the consent documents, the way in which the product is to be marked, so anything concerning the production and marketing of the product, the assessment of the consent and, of course, the protection itself and, finally, the consumer to obtain products with those properties as they are declared on certain declarations. As the Deputy Minister has said, this is a roof law, and behind it follows a series of regulations that regulate certain topics, so let's say that so far, rules of equipment and the protection of systems intended for precisely explosive atmospheres, so the safety of elevators, so the safety of pressure equipment machines, gas appliances, electromagnetic compatibility, really everything that surrounds us in everyday life and work, and maybe we're not even aware of it. This law creates a general legal framework, and compliance with all those amendments that have taken place with the European Directive and those which mean Croatia's entry into the single European market and with all our economic operators entering the market with their products. Something specific, therefore, should be said, a little bit about the obligations of economic operators and some of the provisions that may need to be particularly highlighted here and that we do not fully agree with. It therefore states that, when placing its product on the market, the manufacturer is obliged to ensure that its product is designed and manufactured in accordance with the requirements laid down in the regulations relating to that product. And therefore, these are all the norms and all that is prescribed by other rules. In addition, it shall speak between a series of items to the manufacturer’s obligation in the event that the regulation referred to in Article 4(1) of this Act relating to the product requires it, the manufacturer shall ensure that the product is accompanied by instructions and safety data in the Croatian language or in languages which can easily be understood by consumers and other users. Here we now come of course to the same problem when we had, which we also had in the recently discussed law, that the declarations should not be only Croatian, it does not have to stand Croatian at all if there is a language on the declaration that is easily understood by consumers and other users. What language is that? Same question. It also writes that the manufacturer is obliged to provide the competent inspector with all the information and documents necessary to demonstrate the conformity of the product in the language to the understood competent inspector. Now, which language the inspector will understand, probably by some regulation then should also predict whether it is English or Hungarian, Slovenian, Croatian or other, therefore easily understood by the competent inspector. But I don't know if this provision is clear enough and whether it's good at all. So, authorised representatives, which must be done by authorised representatives, which are their obligations. The manufacturer may, on the basis of written authorisation, authorise a natural or legal person established in the European Union to be his authorised representative. I single out this item only because we need to become aware that all those representatives in the European Union will be automatically and representatives of course in Croatia. Easy, but it's safe to start getting used to these things. What are the obligations of the importer? The importer is obliged to place only the product in accordance with the provisions of the rules applicable to that product on the market of the European Union. So it is also said in our Single Market Act, so we are becoming and we are aware of the European Union market. And all that comes to the market of the European Union is also valid for the Croatian market and these products must comply with all the regulations applicable in Croatia and the regulations applicable in the European Union. In Article 5(5), Article 7(5) of this Act states that where the regulations laid down in Article 4(1) of this Act require the importer to ensure that the product is accompanied by instructions and safety data in the Croatian language or in languages that consumers and other users can understand. The same thing, therefore, as in Article 5(9), which is a language that will be understood by consumers and other users without being Croatian. Why in Croatia we have to prescribe this type of manipulation without it being clearly said that in Croatia the declarations must be written in Croatian. The obligations of distributors are the same thing, so Article 8(2) writes before making the product available to the distributor must include instructions and safety information in the Croatian language or in languages that consumers and other users can easily understand. We assume that some children will probably use some products, so it might also be a question of whether and whether the same treatment will be possible when God does not give something and that a distributor can defend that it is not quite clear and precise in which language it is spoken and whether the Croatian language is bound on that product. A very good one who has had the opportunity to buy something in America shows how Americans actually take care of everything in their packaging that could potentially endanger health, life, or any safety of a potential consumer. Therefore, here are also these few comments, of course, and we will propose amendments to all the articles that speak this way. And let's just say, for example, Amendment 1 in Article 5, paragraph 9, instead of the words "or in a language that is easily understood by consumers and other users", the words "and the Latin letter". In paragraph 11, instead of the words "language easily understood to the competent inspector", the words "Croatian language". Here's about what we had to comment on about this law. The amendments will be submitted as they should, or they have been submitted. And on that case, of course, we will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42405	Thank you, Your Honor, for this, we have exhausted the list of respondents to the debate under this proposal, the final draft of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 378. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. I would like to ask the representative of the honourable deputy minister, Alen Leveric, to show himself. First, the Legislative Committee. Amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42407	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42408	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42409	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42410	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42411	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42412	Reason, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42413	In the Act on Technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, which, in addition to Croatian, states the possibility of using languages that can easily be understood by consumers and other users does not in any way exclude the use of the Croatian language but merely represents a harmonisation with the EU acquis in the area of consumer protection and freedom of movement of goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42414	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42415	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, we are very sorry at the Croatian Democratic Community club that the government has no sense and need for Croatian citizens and even constitutional provision that it is under Article 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in official use in the Republic of Croatia and the Latin letter, given the fact that in a few days we become the 28th member of the EU, and that the Croatian language becomes the 24th official language of the EU, we believe that in Croatian there should be texts in the Latin letter. If the government has no understanding of it then we understand how the national interest in Europe will be protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42416	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42418	Yeah. Please state who is in favour of the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club No. One that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 2nd of the same club of MPs. Your Honor, Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42419	The amendment is also not accepted. It does not exclude the use of the Croatian language but merely represents a alignment with the EU acquis in the area of consumer protection and freedom of movement of goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42420	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42421	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we really regret such a dreary explanation of the government's representatives for not using Croatian and Latin letters. But I repeat, in accordance with the provisions of Article 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is officially used in the Croatian language and Latin script, and since we become the 28th member of the EU and the Croatian language becomes the 24th official language of the EU, we believe that they should be as such incorporated into the law. But I repeat, the government once again shows how it will protect national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42422	Are you asking for a vote? Please make your statement on Amendment No. 2. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 3rd of the same club of MPs. Your Honor, Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42423	The amendment is not accepted. It is also an explanation that the Act on technical requirements for products and the assessment of conformity which, besides Croatian, cite the possibility of using languages that can easily be understood by consumers and other users do not in any way exclude the use of Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42424	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42425	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we express our dissatisfaction again with the way the government representatives explained it, which could have taken at least a little more effort to explain why he did not want to use certain Croatian and Latin script products, so we remind him again of Article 12. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia that the official use of the Croatian language and the Latin letter is in Croatia and that we become the 28th member of the EU and that the Croatian language becomes the 24th official language of the EU. But it obviously doesn't mean anything to you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42426	Please state the amendment No. 3. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Okay. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law on technical requirements for products and assessment of compliance in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Now we're going to cut to the next item of the agenda and that's: - Final proposal of the Law on the Control of Transport of Military Use and Non-military Murders, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 377; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Defence Committee. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy, respected Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42428	Thank you very much, President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. The reasons for the adoption of this law relate to the regulation of the conditions relating to the control of the traffic of military use goods and non-military means of killing for commercial purposes, the provision of services relating to the goods of military use, the transfer of defence products within the European Union, as well as the establishment of the competent authority of the State Administration of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of this law, as well as the rights and obligations of exporters, importers and service providers. In addition, this law will fully comply with the acquis of the European Union since that law is fully implemented by Directive No. 43 from 2009. The objective of this Directive is to simplify the conditions for the transfer of defence products within the European Union in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market in the European Union. Since the adoption of that Directive, legislation has been different in the Member States of the European Union and related to the transfer of defence products within the European Union. Such different legal regulations hindered the movement of products and disrupted the competition on the internal market, which put industrial cooperation and the competitiveness of the defence industry of the European Union at risk. This area has so far been partially regulated by the Export and Import Act of Military Use and non-military killings which have been in force since the beginning of 2009, which will cease to apply. This legislative arrangement of the area of surveillance of goods of military use and non-military means of killing for commercial purposes, the provision of services relating to military goods, the transfer of defence products within the European Union will contribute to a priority reduction of administrative barriers for companies from the Republic of Croatia dealing with the production of those goods and which are mainly export-oriented. The creation of a good legal basis for the regulation of this important area will have an important impact on the simplification of export procedures, i.e. imports of those goods. I also state that the paper introduced by this law is an increase in the duration of the export licence from 6 months to 1 year which will also be of great benefit to exporters because it will facilitate their exports through the possibility of full use of the approved... which has not been the case in practice so far, and will also significantly reduce the administrative costs of the company's business. It is also important to stress that the adoption of this law will improve the efficiency of export controls, taking into account the security objectives of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the adoption of this law on the one hand will open the possibility that an effective general legal framework, as well as a system of export and import control of goods of military use and non-military means of killing, which is necessary to respect the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, will affect on the other hand the increased competitiveness of Croatian companies engaged in the transport of military use goods and non-wary means of killing both on the European and on the world market. Data on the importance of regulating this area refer to the fact that the overall realised value of exports of military goods in 2012 amounted to more than 72m euros, which is 45% more than in 2011. These data suggest a positive trend in the growth of military goods exports in 2012. The control of exports and imports of military goods is very important from the point of view of national security, foreign policy and the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. For many years, the Republic of Croatia has tried to balance all these factors that affect the improvement of the competitiveness of domestic companies, as well as the development of a system of control and monitoring of the traffic of controlled goods. By this law, the Republic of Croatia as an active participant and party to all global legal instruments in the area of arms control enables Croatian companies to establish and continuously improve their development policy and create institutional regulations for the control of the traffic of goods and technology of military use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42429	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the Board of the Croatian Labour Authorities want to submit reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the HDZ Representatives' Club and Honored Representative Zvonko Milas. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42430	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, Proposers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have heard this, is therefore another law where we are harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union or more specifically with a whole series of acts of the European Union as set out in the proposal for this law. As the deputy said, therefore, by adopting or adopting this law, the law of 2008 on the export and import of goods of military use and non-military killings will cease, and it is important to say, perhaps that some articles or certain articles of this law will enter into the European Union on the day of the entry of the Republic of Croatia, not eight days after the publication in the National Journal. The 2008 Act on the import of military use goods and non-military killings was part of accession negotiations for membership in the European Union, Chapter 31, so foreign, security and defence policies. It regulated the matter until then by the Regulation establishing the goods to be exported and imported on the basis of licences and the list of military purposes was an integral part of that Regulation. The law was then passed in order to fully monitor exports and imports of military goods and to provide services for military purposes. Then new definitions and concepts that exist today in the bill were introduced, and they were taken over from the acquis and it might be convenient to mention how we heard from Mr. Deputy's presentation that there is, therefore, also relevant to national security. In 2002, when the National Security Strategy was adopted, we showed our readiness to access international arrangements and regimes, so as to control exports of controlled goods, technology. So, all that is said today, and what has made Croatia a significant success. The only thing we haven't solved yet is that we haven't yet brought the National Security Strategy. I think it's high time to approach that too, if nothing else for the reason of the update. Let's say one of the most important objectives of the strategy was to join NATO, which is what we have been doing since 2009. We have heard about the issues covered by the draft law regarding the conditions for importing and exporting goods for military purposes, the means for commercial purposes as well as the powers to issue licences. The intensity of the law, therefore, is what should be obtained and the results are a reduction of bureaucratic, administrative barriers, which should lead to a reduction and cost, i.e. raising the competitiveness of Croatian companies, which should all facilitate exports to foreign markets together, in particular to the EU market, which we will access in about ten days. This is important because the defence sector of the Republic of Croatia employs about a thousand people who participate in the production of this kind. And thanks to new technologies and innovation in production, we should soon secure, of course, a better position on the EU market and beyond. So, the story isn't tight. Its importance is strengthening, its purpose is to strengthen the military industry, which we believe the Republic of Croatia has good positions, good preconditions. Finally, some technical solutions such as permits for individual, general, or global where individual, with 6 months, its validity goes to a year will also help ease and efficiency of exports. So, positioning our companies on the external markets. What might have to be further mentioned is that this law introduces a special register of transactions. So, since it's sensitive matter, I even think that the period of keeping documents could be increased by, say, 20 as it's been said here for 30 years. And I support the criminal provisions prescribed by this law for the same reason, and I think other than monetary and prison provisions for up to five years so that they can be even bigger in view of the subject matter of this law. So, I support this law and the HDZ club will be for law-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42431	Thank you, too. The next club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is the SDP club and respected representative Boris Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42432	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, sometime before the Swedish Institute of Sipri, he published a new report that testifies that in 2010, the year is still a major global recession crisis, the arms market, primarily conventional weapons including sales, donations and transfers of technology between states, international organisations and armed groups. There is, of course, no small arms exports. So this particular market grew significantly slower than usual. But what's important is to emphasize what's still growing. Unfortunately, at the same time, every minute, one person in the world dies because of armed violence and categorically needs control to prevent illegal trade from being delivered to conflict zones and thus encourages deepening, continuing and developing new conflicts and wars. Croatia is of course aware that anti-trafficking measures are one of the conditions of a safer world. It is the policy of arms export control that is implemented on the basis of the criteria and principles contained in the Code of Conduct in the Exporting of EU Weapons which, of course, Croatia has accepted. The aim of the Code is to achieve a higher degree of transparency, to prevent the export of equipment that could be used for internal repression or international aggression, which could cause regional instability. The code contains 8 criteria. First enforcement of international obligations of special sanctions, second respect for human rights in the country of destination, third internal situation in the country of destination, fourth preservation of peace, security and stability in the region. Furthermore, national security and security of friendly and Allied states. The sixth, the country's behaviour towards the International Community, in particular its position towards terrorism, and respect for international law. Furthermore, the existence of a risk that exported equipment will be rerouted by unwanted stealing of the user or that it will be re-exported under unwanted conditions. Finally, the compatibility of arms exports with the technical and economic capabilities of the receiving State. The strategy of national security was here just before and said, which is the word for it. But the adopted ones back in March 2002. Of course, the Republic of Croatia has expressed its readiness and interest in joining international arrangements and activities in the field of export control of controlled goods and technologies, and this is later confirmed by the accession of our country to different international associations with the aim of achieving transparency and greater responsibility in the transport of goods and technology for conventional weapons. Therefore, by respecting all the above-mentioned proposal of the Law on the Control of Transport of Military Use and Non-war Murders with the final proposal for a law that is before us has the following key points – supervision, control, international harmonisation in the fight against terrorism and the prevention of the spread of weapons of mass destruction, harmonisation of the conditions for imports and exports of military goods within the EU, and particularly important for our producers, it is precisely the reduction of administrative barriers to domestic companies in the procedure and imports and exports. And of course, teaching it and reducing administrative costs. Therefore, the provision of services may involve persons registered for the purpose of carrying out the production activities, i.e. domestic and foreign interventions of goods listed in the list of military use goods of course based in the Republic of Croatia and registered in the register of service providers for military purposes. The number of companies enrolled in the 2012 eyewitness was 113, meaning exporters and importers of military use goods and non-military killings and 15 other service providers for military purposes. So a total of 128. The economy ministry has already issued a total of 667 export licences in 2012 of which 319 for exports and 344 for imports, it might be better if it were the other way around but so were the facts, and 4 for providing services. Export licences have been issued in total of just over 238m euros, but a little more than 51m euros has been realised. If this adds to the 2012 realisation according to the approved permits, then from 2011, we come to a total of exports worth just over 72m euros. In addition, there was a positive trend in the growth of military goods exports in 2012 when we competed with 2011. Therefore, the value of imports and exports of military goods is not a negligible figure. The growth of these figures will certainly contribute to this proposal of the Law on the Control of Transport of Military Uses and Non-war Murders, first and foremost, we expect this by reducing administrative barriers to domestic companies and simplifying export procedures, i.e. imports particularly within the EU, while improving the efficiency of export control while respecting, above all, Croatia's good security. The extension of the export licence from 6 months to 1 year is also considered to be of considerable benefit to our exporters. In the case of licences issued with a period of up to 6 months, a large number of certain licences have actually been used or only partially used. Here, for example. During 2012, licences for this activity amounted to approximately 2.5 million euros. Unfortunately, they weren't used. So this extension gives you more opportunity. This April, the Croatian military industry in Split at an international exhibition of arms and military equipment involving 100 exhibitors from Europe, the United States, something from Asia, proved that it actually has something to show. In addition to these changes, the Croatian military industry will be considered more operationally competitive. And because of all of this, the SDP Club accepts the proposal of the Law on the Control of Transport of Military Use and Non-military Murders by means of the final bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42433	Thank you, too. This is what we have exhausted the list of people who have been reported to discuss this final draft of the law. We will now stop working at the plenary session and announce the start tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a united discussion of the final proposal of the Nature Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 301 and Final Proposal of the Environmental Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 391. We suggested that the debate on behalf of the club take 20 minutes. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. Final proposal of the Law on the Control of Transport of Military Use and Non-war Murders, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 377. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the representative of the Deputy Minister of Economy, Alen Leveric, to show himself about the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Articles 4 and 77. Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42435	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42436	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 2. of Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42437	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42438	It's also becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 3rd in Article 15, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42439	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42440	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42441	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42442	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 5th to Articles 21 and 38.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42443	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42444	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 6th of Article 23th of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42445	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42446	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Article 26, 39 and 82
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42447	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42448	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42449	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42450	It's also becoming an integral part. Amendment No. Nine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42451	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42452	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. Ten.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42453	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42454	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42455	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42456	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42457	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42458	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42459	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42460	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42461	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42462	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42463	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42464	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42465	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42466	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42467	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42468	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42469	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42470	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42471	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42472	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42473	The amendment shall be adopted with the reason that the amendment to Article 87 shall be adopted in a way that replaces the word of the Regulation the list instead of the amendment of the proposed word rules. Therefore, since the basis of Article 87 of the Law in question does not provide for a regulation, a list is already adopted, containing a list of goods of military use, defence products and non-military means of killing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42474	The Honorable chairman of the board?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42475	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42476	Thank you very much. It shall be accepted in the amended text. Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42477	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-18-0.u42478	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 100 votes for the adopted Law on the Control of Transport of Military Use and Non-military Murders in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Dear fellow Members of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues continue with the plenary session of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. According to yesterday's agreement here in the Croatian Assembly of Club Representatives today we will begin united with the Final Proposal of the Nature Protection Act, united with the Final Proposal of the Environmental Protection Act The representatives of clubs can talk about these two proposals of the law for 20 minutes. So: - Final proposal of the Nature Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 301 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. - Final proposal of the Environmental Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 391 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've also received an act in the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate for this draft law in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain both proposals? Yeah. Dear Minister Michael Zmailovic. Here you go, dear Minister.
