ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36782	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, MPs and MPs. So you have before you the Land Book Act. I'm not going to go into the details now because we've been through most of the first reading, I'm just going to say a few things and look back at some of the things that happened in the meantime. So, as you know and as you have seen, the first-readers also introduce a whole series of new institutes from high court to other things that will allow for faster, simpler procedure in land books. It's something that bothers us all like any of our citizens or almost every single one of them met with it sooner or later. The most important changes here are what I said about equating practice. We now have a kind of feudalization where you actually end up in the County Court, unfortunately it is understandable because of previous practices and traditions since certain parts of the country came from different legal systems and so they entered the land books and came to different solutions. We are now introducing a unique place where all complaints will be resolved and legal practice will actually be balanced through this, and more importantly, legal certainty will be given to citizens. What's most important, and unfortunately today isn't always happening to you everywhere in every part of our country when you have the same problem, you get the same solution. That's what we want to do with this, and that's very important. The second thing is a whole series of provisions that actually allow for the transition to electronic business. I know there's been a lot of questions about this, so what do we do now? We don't have any papers, if electronics are safe. Let's watch it differently. Today, at this point, probably billions of euros, dollars, kunas are being transferred electronically, there's no paper anywhere. And that's fine. So the world just works that way and that's something we have to accept. So far, we have had the destruction of land books due to floods, fires, and so on. and the need to rebuild and so on. So the paper isn't safe, and electronics will be safer than the paper is now. So there's no need to be afraid. It's another thing. We want the whole procedure done in a way that deals primarily with it means land-book reference and judicial advisors. A judge that only comes where there's something controversial. That's why we're introducing here the objection and remissory decision of the judge of the same court simply to avoid wasting time going to the appeal, because if the judge decides whether or not he was right or not if you have any objection against it. We mean, we see it as a very effective solution and a acceleration of procedures. What the technical predisposition will allow, and we'll be working on it very quickly means, say, that the IC excerpts are working out for any court in any court. You know how complicated it is today when you have something here I don't know in Old Town so you have to come from Zagreb and then you get it there. This way you will go to Zagreb or anywhere you live and take it out. This law allows, and we are also working on a technical solution to make that possible. The whole series on it will connect in perspective, it is also prescribed here and the electronic handling so that you will be able to submit your request somewhere and it will be resolved. The next thing we know from practice is that I have to say and by talking to the MPs of many in the Parliament, which is the possibility of co-financing certain procedures by the local community, i.e. companies with public authority. That's the exact definition. In practice, it happens very often that there is an interest, for example, in rebuilding land books, that there is no funding in the budget for this, and that the local community has it. We've had a legal restriction so far and you couldn't do it you couldn't finance. There's no reason why you shouldn't because it's a public interest. So he's getting rid of everyone who lives in that catastrian community, everyone. So no one's comfortable. And this is a very good solution that should in practice work in a way that those who can co-finance will co-finance. It will free up the resources to work there with those who may not be able to co-finance, and so we will speed up and improve the whole process. A more precise delivery is being arranged. I said this common information system, redefine the institutes of establishment, reconstruction, addition of land books and individual processes very important which is now coming, which is now actually turning into one means to be implemented wherever there is a legitimate reason. You're the current situation here. I'm going to tell you an example down there of the Kastastar municipality of Kostren, the Adriatic Highway, there's been no I don't know since the 1960s. According to the current structure, it was merely transferred to the land book in a way that included old owners, natural persons who are mostly seen by the date of enrolment of the deceased. Now we change that and there will be an individual proper procedure, can be carried out on request and the status will be entered according to what it is. So this isn't a magic wand, something that's going to solve it tomorrow. We all need to be clear, but it gives instruments and tools to get rid of all this. There's a way we're finally going to start solving our citizens' problems where the land books are destroyed or not at all. A whole series of people can't really do anything with their property. He can't because he doesn't exist. The property exists, but it's not registered. Now here we have a mechanism that will be able to get rid of it through the process and that people will actually be able to come realising their property, something with it to do, buy, sell, burden whatever they want. Like I said, what here is important tools, they're not the solution that's going to be tomorrow. Citizens simply need to start taking better care of their property. One of our problems here is that during the entire periods of certain social arrangements there were no incentives to address the issue of ownership or the opposite, there were incentives not to solve it. So that's why you have records from I don't know 1918, etc. 'Cause no one ever passed on after that. So he doesn't pay taxes, so he doesn't lose a child's allowance or anything else. It's a situation that no court can do. The state can't solve it. You have again that user and citizen who is interested in getting rid of his condition and who has to come to initiate it, and here are the mechanisms for how to do it. I'll look back on just one more thing that started two or three days ago. That's the alleged check-in of land books. You have before you the text of a law that hasn't changed, so you've seen it before, and you see that the billing is not foreseen. And of course, right now I'm going to say and apologize, our argument is not clear enough, and that's where we were in the ministry because the explanation with that text isn't clear enough and it gave the basis for some questions to be asked but the text of the law isn't. What's this about? Of course you will never be charged with insight because you must have a public land book and it is important, transparent and every citizen must be able to see what is there. However, if charged and that is why this possibility is therefore going to be charged when these data are used further for commercial purposes. What's this about? Now let's say you come up with any activity, here we can talk, I'm a former lawyer, so we can pull a whole series of data, use it when a citizen comes to us, and then we can charge him for it and we get it for free. And before that, the citizen financed them from the tax. Well, that doesn't make sense. So, if it is introduced, it will be introduced in the case when it is commercially used further. Why? Because it's normal for all of us to finance you, that's all in taxes. And they're all funding citizens. But if someone continues to charge for it then it's logical that they participate at least in the maintenance of the system. At this point it's not on the table, it's something again because through the CIS you have to be aware that this amount of data is multiplying. You will be able to have insight into the collection of documents, into everything you can't see now, from your office or from your firm. Well, it's normal if you're still selling it that you'll have to pay for it. So when you're talking about charging just in that case. Here, I won't last any longer. They're ahead of you, and we've pointed out what technical changes are compared to two readings, and that's that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36783	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36784	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected ministers with a co-worker. So spatial data is one of the foundations, or we can say the foundation of both the state and society, and as such play a key role in all areas of human activity. So far, the results of the land administration reform can be recognised by the shortened time of the case resolution, the reduction of backlogs and the acceleration of bookkeeping, and the education of workers in catastrian and land-book offices, along with awareness of the public, which has also taken place at least to a certain extent. The transparency of the e-earth book and e-catastra should also be added to that. This bill, which is now before us, continues and improves the establishment of a modern and up-to-date record of the legal status of real estate that is in line with the cadastrian data and, in that sense, the fundamental value of this bill is to reduce the process and discharging the system. On behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to highlight a few things that we find particularly useful and particularly interesting in this proposal. Article 1 paragraph 6 of the proposal, so the establishment of the High Land and Book Court as a second-degree court, must be one of the serious steps in discharging and speeding up the procedure, and there seems to be no dispute. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. First of all, we have complete confidence in the possibility that the electronic data stored are really permanent and seriously stored and in this sense we have no sense that paper books were in any way a better solution or a safer or more permanent solution and double bookmaking that we have recently had, so both paper and electronic is really a completely pointless thing. And we're glad to finally give it up. Article 7 of the Law provides for a specific type of note which amends the provisions on the registration of the seal as well as the procedure for deleting the note. All those who have had this touch, whether professionally or only as citizens of users, know that in practice it has created numerous and serious problems both for people and for the system. And we really hope and believe that this change will first level as the first course of action in the courts, and secondly and perhaps even more importantly facilitate the exercise of the right of all citizens. Article 8 each party shall bear its own costs. So far, the provisions of the Law on litigation procedure have been applied, which has been completely pointless here, but this is mainly not about the dispute but about another type of request. So it's good to have a new model of work with this law and that. Article 9 amending Article 97 of the Law the possibility to submit proposals for entry by electronic means, so it is really interesting for me to 2013 and thank God that we finally come to the level of operation that technology has been enabling for a really long time. What I would especially point out is that this possibility also opens up for powermakers, therefore it is also one step towards reducing procedures and increasing efficiency. What we are particularly hoping for, as it says in the light of the bill's proposal, is that this entry by electronic means will very quickly become a dominant way, a dominant way of working and communication. Article 15 is an important amendment concerning the delivery of a solution, a provision that is more appropriate to this type of procedure than the provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure used so far, and we believe that this will also result in another additional discharging of courts. Articles 18 and 19 are important amendments concerning procedures in accordance with the complaints lodged which were one of the key samples of the length of the land-book proceedings. Article 32, which amends Article 170b of the law, introduces the right to access and search the land database to persons authorised to carry out geodetic activity. I would stop there for a moment, it seems to us even though the way a man looks at the whole bill might not be such a dominant change at first sight, but it seems to us a very important detail in this law. Namely, one of the possible ideas that is on the table and which we will probably and hopefully also talk about here in the House about future for the full reform of the system that we are talking about and the introduction of, say, authorized geodesy engineers with public powers, so some kind of geodetic notaries or geodetic notaries, let's call it that in cases where the property is indisputable and we're talking about the fact that 90% of the cases of uncontested ownership could actually be done with certain tasks, with, in addition to the license of course, which are currently in the jurisdiction of Earth-based courts. And courts would only deal with disputes, only cases in which property is disputed. So that's 10% at this point, about 10% of the current procedures, which means that by just some arithmetic calculation, we would speed up the proceedings 10 times if we were to discharge the courts. And that would certainly be one of the possible foundations of the reform of the entire system that we are talking about. Another important amendment to this law is Article 36, which allows for the establishment, renewal or addition of land books to be carried out for a certain part of a catastrian municipality. So far, the practice has been such that it has lasted an extremely long time because it was not possible to work on only part of the Catastrian municipality and there is no reason not to decide that one piece of agricultural land or that one area of a city was solved and made without the whole catastrian municipality being taken into action. It is something that also speeds up not only this part of land books and catastras, but also what we are constantly talking about, therefore, about investment opportunities, possibilities for real estate transport, the possibility of rounding up agricultural land and everything that is often on our mind and on the road here in the Croatian Parliament. Article 56 provides for good practice in cases where a cadastrian change has been carried out and the data either partially or predominantly do not correspond to land books. What we think is also particularly important is Article 57 of this proposal, which detailed the individual proper procedure. Therefore, it is said when this procedure may be required, which may be the subject of this procedure and the content of the proposal and of the documents to be proposed. What I want to point out in this individual proper procedure is that it is, for example, the key to changing state agricultural land where the launch of an individual proper procedure is the only way to resolve unimplemented measurements through the land book. We often discuss this in the Parliament, and that is the same thing, it is only seen from this that this story with the grantovnica and the cathedral is actually the cornerstone of some procedures and some reforms that we talk about very often in the Parliament, both in the government and in the Croatian public. The last thing I want to highlight from those that HNS particularly supports is the possibility that units of local self-government finance or co-finance the establishment or renewal of a land book without strict frameworks and ratios that have so far been in place and in many cases made it impossible for local self-government units to carry out the job they consider to be in favour of and which they need to take a step further in investment, whether in matters of agricultural land, whether in the case of real estate traffic, either at the end of the situation in the area where they operate. Although he is respected, Minister Miljanic referred to Article 32, which amends Article 170 of the law, we also disagree with the possibility of charging a fee for insight. I've appreciated, no, no, absolutely I've appreciated your observation about it, but you won't be mad at me, I don't quite understand how it would have been done. So there's still, what I'm trying to say is that it still remains unclear in fact, and I think it might be a good idea to kind of formulate that article more precisely in the direction of this which you pointed out in your opening statement just so we don't have doubts, confusion and possible different interpretations of that item. So, we at the HNS think that this law is a good step towards discharging the system and towards greater efficiency of the system, but it's also one huge but. What we must be aware of all together is that one of the key patterns of riots in the Republic of Croatia is hidden in the grantovnica and catastra system. The riot is something I often talk about in the Parliament, I often talk about that the parties to the Kukuriku coalition that one of their key tasks took order into the systems of the Republic of Croatia and this is probably one of the fundamentals, if not the fundamental system in which we need to introduce the order. The double system we have is in itself unsustainable, so it will no longer be able to function. We managed to match 3.8% of the data, correct me Minister if I have the wrong information. So at this rate, it's gonna take us 200 years to get order into the garter and cadastre. In other words, it will take us 200 years to bring order to the Republic of Croatia. I believe the Kukuriku coalition will get the citizens' trust again, but I'm not sure it'll last 200 years in a row. So we need to start moving a little faster into these reforms. It seems to me that in the HNS, it seems to us that the minister corrects me, please, if you think I'm wrong, that the main problem lies in the area of land books or courts. The problem is the status of land-based book courts within the justice system itself. The problem is to suspend procedures that are very common. So catastre, the geodetic administration does its part of the job and then, for some ridiculous reasons, even by leaving the employees who have worked the cases, there is a suspension of the proceedings that have already been under way. One of the possible solutions that I'm also putting on the table right now in the debate as something that we're going to talk about, I hope soon in the complete reform of that system, is that the land books and the jobs currently being done there fall under the jurisdiction of the geodetic administration because for now I see that you disagree, but in our opinion it has proved to be a stronger, faster part of this double system where we are currently operating in Croatia. But whether or not we agree on the details, what we can all agree on is that we need a complete reform of this system. If we need money for this reform, of course, it's something we can't do for free, it's something that costs but every kuna invested in that reform is an investment. It is certainly not a cost and without this reform we cannot count on either serious investments in the Republic of Croatia or serious traffic of real estate in the Republic of Croatia, nor can we count on serious rounding of agricultural land, for example. nor can we count on the serious withdrawal of money from EU funds anywhere that withdrawal is related to the fact of the country, so especially in agriculture. So the HNS absolutely supports this bill. We look forward to the changes that will happen. But what we warn with several basic ideas and thesis we wanted to point out is that we are also expected to be seriously reformed by the entire catastra and grantovnica system in the Republic and relatively quickly so that we as the parties who took responsibility for the management of the Republic of Croatia can make the key promises that we made to our fellow citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36785	Thank you. The Republic has Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36786	Thank you very much. Comrade Coleman, I agree most of the time with your exposure except for some elements. It's true that there's a mess to be arranged, and the exact purpose of what you've listed in your presentation is why it is so. But you need to know that all land books would be settled, the geodetic measurement of all catastrian municipalities should be carried out, and do you know how much boredom has been measured in Croatia even though we have raised or received a World Bank loan for it. These are the percentages, therefore, which are on the fingers of one hand can also be numbered by a word, so on the fingers of one hand. Furthermore, you've a little bit of come on, my harsh word demeaning the books, you've given a clear advantage to the electronic notes in the garter. It's true that this is a faster way, a more modern way, a modern way to get data in a garnery. But there's a big but. To follow the history of a particle or a catastrian municipality you must have books, because as far as I know history is not recorded in electronic form. So the history of the particle. I asked for it myself, so I couldn't find it. Next, you see the example, I'll tell you on a personal example of how it's done or how it's in the garter when you come in because you saw by entering electronics that your particle on your particle that I've been working on for my 25 years is recorded by another owner and on his next-door owner. So to get to the fact that what's a fact is, we need to buy each other a particle and pay the tax to actually get in the right situation. So I was given an explanation in the garter and there's no other way except for me to buy his and he buys mine and we pay our taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36787	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The answer to Igor Coleman's line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36788	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As far as the cadastar dimensions are concerned, I couldn't agree more. So they're the foundation of everything. I have therefore stressed that this is the work ahead of us, that reforming the entire system is what is waiting for us and that it is not a job that can be cheap and that we must be aware and that we must secure money in the state budget but also find other means of funding to do so. As for the history of particles in electronic form. I'm not 100% sure, but I don't think it's the first idea, that the idea isn't to throw those old books in the trash right now. They usually end up in some archives, in a state archive, or in some version of the archiving. And the other thing that seems the same to me, and I hope I'm not wrong about the idea when it's done, when any kind of electronic serious database is done, so, of course, all the data that exists is placed in that database and not just the ones that we came to after the establishment of the database. So I don't think there's any serious concern that by electronic data-keeping, the history of particles will be lost. I don't think there's any reason to be afraid of that. However, I think today's technology allows the data stored in electronic format to be much safer and much more permanent than data stored on a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36789	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36790	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with an associate. The second reading, i.e. the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books, and in the first reading, we said our vision of this issue, so we will repeat this because we consider this to be an extremely important topic for the functioning of the legal system. The regulated land books are the liquids of a modern society on the one hand, and on the other hand in a formal legal sense is a fundamental matter of trust in the public of data in the truthfulness of the data in land books and they are primarily public books, public data that should be available to all. They need to define both pure and clear ownership, so ownership relations true and unburdened or clean must be recorded in land books. It also has an economic dimension today because without land books and factual conditions in land books, it makes it impossible for people to participate today in traffic management. One who does not have a defined property in the land book cannot participate in some kind of economic life, simply cannot be in the bank's debt to take credit, cannot count on the ability to use certain social benefits, benefits, incentives, let alone to participate in flows that are ahead of us or European funds and all that's being told what's up to now. Therefore, for us, the basic thing is to organize land books, and therefore we welcome the ministry's efforts to edit this matter through two readings. We think that, finally, with this other text, that matter has good assumptions that the construction of land books will bring it together. True, the basic motive is primarily the digitization of land books. Here, however, some articles and solutions provide the opportunity to settle the complete matter of land books. I will remind only that the reform of land books in the Republic of Croatia has been implemented on several occasions and several projects and has been implemented for many years. Work is being done on a project to establish a common information system, it has been going on since 2007 with the support of the World Bank loan. This project was preceded by a project to update and arrange land books and catastras, and the project has been extended for 10 years with the loan of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where 617 million kunas have been spent so far, and 336 catastrian municipalities and 5.5% of the area of the Republic of Croatia have been arranged. So only 5.5% of RH's surface area is catastrian and grantovically arranged. In the Republic of Croatia, we have 3 thousand 350 catastrian municipalities, and for 219 there are no land books. In 64 catastrian municipalities is the restoration or founding of land books is currently under way. So this information tells us what our condition is in our land books and what a need for the normative arrangement of this matter. We welcome the establishment of a single property register system that will combine data from land books and catastras and the introduction of electronic management of land books, as well as the follow-up of time and abandoning manual management of land books. The advantage is in any case the availability and visibility of the data my predecessor spoke of. We also welcome the introduction of a High Court of Land to decide on all complaints in land and book cases. We think it's a good and practical thing. However, the digitisation carried out by us in this way would not solve the main problem, which is the inconsistencies of real-state land books because data that do not reflect the situation on the ground have been entered in digital form, and I will say something about it later. So digitization as a method is a good thing, but if we feed it with the wrong or incomplete data, then it's for itself and it doesn't have any purpose. This text has been improved and nomotechnically and somewhere, therefore, a certain increased expertise is required in the personnel to do these tasks, clearer deadlines are defined. The article 15 is news that we have received an advertisement board that will be conducted electronically, which I think is good then and the data will be more accessible. We have something that requires a specific comment or interpretation, which is in the transitional and final provisions of article 84 which speaks about joint ownership of the state and former social property, so that it would be good if we could get some sort of explanation to see exactly what this is about even though we assume. But for us at this point are the most important two things, that is Article 35 and Article 40. Article 35 here clearly defined and left the possibility that a methodology would therefore be laid down to establish land books to be refurbished or complemented by land books. Why does it matter to us? Because we still have phenomena I said in how many catastrian municipalities there are no land books. So we have the absence of land books in the area of Gorski Kotar, but the area of municipalities, the Municipal Court in Ogulin. So, for 17 catastrian municipalities, we don't have land books. They were put out of force back in '95. So it's almost 17 years old. And in those 17 years, it was stopped or even slowed down legal traffic of real estate. So people are not allowed to participate in economic life based on their real estate. And that's not good. So because of the absence or unregulated land books, a certain category of people is placed in an unequal position. Up to the new cadastar measurement and renovation of land books, legal traffic is carried out through land cardboard, which began in 2005. But for the establishment of land cardboard it is necessary that the party attaches the documents to the original and as well as a copy of the cadastrian plan and the historical extract from the cadastre and this all costs and it all goes on the party's burden together. Which, of course, shouldn't be. In a particular area, we have an additional problem regarding the rebuilding of houses that we spoke of yesterday as a problem, in a particular area of the land book not taken care of since II. World War I. So we also have an example of the return village of Otišić, which has made it difficult and slow to rebuild houses. The renovation was carried out without the necessary documents. And now it's about how so-called houses are going to be legalized, how they're going to register at the expense of those people who are otherwise at the end of the existence, how they're going to do it. So, we expect that through this Article, the 36th State speeds up the construction of land-based books in these areas, these are mainly areas of special state concern or return environments, which, with an additional overall environment that is such as it is, make it more difficult for them to exist and not have regular legal traffic for their real estates. Another article that is very important to us, which is Article 43, which said: "If it is not possible to establish the owner according to the provisions of Article 182 of this Act, the Republic of Croatia will sign up as the owner or co-owner of the cadastral particle which is the subject of the procedure.". That in a legal sense is some sort of logical sequence. So if you don't have a owner, then you finally enter the state as a fiscus. But in life it's not like that, in life it's not like that, in these cases, the owners exist, the owners aren't here, the owners still can't come back, in the meantime the state signed up as the owner of their land. It is the area of northern Dalmatia, it is the area of Kordun, Bania, Like, the hinterland of Zadar, etc.. So it's not a small space and there are no isolated cases. We, they know they have to, and we know that owners have to regulate their property rights. But we have this series of difficult facts, so they're not here otherwise, they don't have the right information about the Justice Department project in that direction. They don't have the means to do that. In addition, the question arises how the state could register for something that is not its own and there is information about the owners. We also have a case in the village near the city of Nin, the municipalities of Vrsi, the municipalities of Polica, Gerva and so, we have a number of cases. The examples are identical in the catastrian municipality of Glina, Gornja Cave, Donja Selište, etc.. I wouldn't pollemize this, but I would open up and point out the problem. This Law, therefore, whether it can be solved directly or not. We have spoken to the DORH representatives and each of the following cases will be resolved in a way that cannot be recorded in favour of the state until the DORH controls the factual situation on the ground. However, I am asking the question of the retroactive importance of this Law, how it will retroactively address this situation. And we would love it if the state paid special attention to this problem and created some kind of review mechanism for these people to come at as little cost as possible to own and own the property they had before these books. So, we welcome this Law, we welcome this Law, we think that, in the wake of a major reorganisation of this serious problem, a very serious mechanism called grantovnica as a guarantee of protection of private ownership in the Republic of Croatia by entering the European Union, this is ultimately expected of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36791	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36792	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the setting up of land books is a condition for both rule of law and legal certainty with regard to the protection of property rights. Dealing with the situation in land books and so quickly solving cases, in them conditions without which you can't and when we talk about investments, whether public, or private sector. The situation in these books, the rate of restoration of land books and the speed of enrollment of ownership rights are still far from satisfactory despite the measures and reforms taken so far, which we have been following for many years. So of course we at the SDP Club support these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Land Books. We consider it an extremely important step towards meeting the conditions I was talking about. So, for example. The introduction of a new court office high in the land of the library court is considered an extremely good step that will lead to the first order as equating court practice and rationalising the work of courts. So far, the case law has even differed in the Sesvetski and Zagreb courts without talking about judicial practice in the coastal or Dalmatian places where land books were kept even in the Italian principle, there the Italian State, Italy therefore established a system of land books, and here northern Austria. And the problems in practice that we have encountered in solving land-book items have been a major obstacle so far and so far and today, a major obstacle and transfer of ownership rights and the achievement of legal certainty. We believe, therefore, that this introduction will lead to an increase in legal certainty and, in particular, to speed up the proceedings in land-booked cases. We particularly welcome the fact as well as colleagues from the HNS Club, that they insisted on a complete transition to the management of land books in electronic form. In today’s time, technical opportunities mean long ago they allow far faster and more efficient treatment in land-book items. When there are opportunities for both real estate transport to be technically facilitated and assisted both by the economy and citizens, making procedures faster and more efficient, the application of the principle of eGovernment or e-Government and the management of objects is seen as necessary in this area as well. It is therefore necessary to reiterate what I think is not accompanied in the public opinion in line with the importance of these changes, that these proposed amendments are finally allowed to be entered into land books and based on an electronic document and that the application for registration can be submitted by electronic means. It all significantly speeds up and facilitates the process. In particular, it means that at any moment a contract can be concluded and the property recorded, without having to... land-book offices and lose all days of travel and waiting in ranks. Savings and times and money with these solutions are great. The public also lacks sufficient knowledge of the fact that these changes will allow for the release of the IC excerpt, regardless of where the real estate is located in the Republic of Croatia. Here are public notebooks, lawyers, legal persons who have public authority to do so will now also be able to issue these ZK excerpts, which will be a significant relief for both citizens and the economy. So far, we have had to take out an excerpt from Zagreb in a court in Pula or a court in Zadar, so we had to ask that we be delivered in writing or even go there in person. I say that technical possibilities exist now and I believe that in the future, as was pointed out in the first debate, the debate in the first reading, will consider that the excerpt is also issued in the form of electronic documents but I say, and this change will significantly facilitate the life of citizens and economics. In any case, we look forward to the direction that has taken place in the land-book information process, so it is intended to follow in other segments, so here we have the opportunity to read in the media that an e-script project is being announced, and if you allow me a small distance from the strictly narrow subject of the judiciary, we encourage strong and application of such principles and in the section of the administration. Here is proposed a series of amendments aimed at rationalising and increasing the efficiency of the work of land-booked departments and, therefore, remains in this second reading. Positively, we stress the fact that a wider circle of persons who are authorised to make a solution in the land-book process, delivery provisions seem to be more effective as I would have said narrow throat in almost all procedures and so on and land-booked and also allow for how the use of the digital format in delivery is listed here. The rationalisation that continued was the introduction of certain... court powers which would lead to a lower burden on the higher court and a faster and more efficient settlement of the case. In our first reading discussion, we welcomed the fact that this law goes into two readings so that all proposals can be considered to get the best possible solutions in this extremely important matter. In this regard, we welcome the fact that part of the suggestion is accepted. It should be noted in turn that Article 192(2) has recognised the nootechnic need to seek to eliminate excess text and paragraph 5 of Article 51 has been deleted. It prescribed special treatment with objections and applications that arrived after the appointment of the correction hearing and made clear that an ad of such a type was already published when the correct procedure was opened as proposed by the amendments to Article 186. Furthermore, Article 200b(3) of the new proposal provides for the erasure of entries which are contrary to the entry set out in the debate on correction and hence the legal remedy against the clearance solution has been prescribed and the text is now clearer. Article 200c adds a provision on the rule of law, so that there is no interpretation that the disgruntled party does not have any right to what may have been wrongly interpreted by reading the previous bill. Article 200a adopted a solution to ensure that delivery of the solution is made to the persons from whose registration it is possible to conclude that delivery would be possible and thus savings on postal costs and shortens the procedure, so it applies the principle of economicity of the procedure. Perhaps in the public debate that preceded the law and here in the debate there were some proposals regarding... some changes to the renewal as prescribed now and this bill. Some suggestions and some changes have been made here. I think it might be interesting to hear from these proposals that existed, especially in the renewal of the procedure, which therefore suggested that the correct procedure might be implemented immediately. This is partly not accepted because here it might be interesting to hear more from the expert public's point of view as to why perhaps a little process that will not be so effective would have to be re-enacted after the procedure has been renewed if there are any recommendations on the establishment of a further right of ownership, therefore, it will have to be in that correct procedure or in other procedures, although it may be a more effective solution whether the immediate and correct procedure is implemented in the process of restoring land books. However, in conclusion, the SDP club believes that this proposal will contribute to a faster and more efficient resolution of land-based books, will allow easier legal traffic of real estate, greater legal certainty, a level playing field, and, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36793	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36794	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is a legal proposal which can be called the cornerstone of legal certainty, primarily of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also of the economy as a whole. There is not a single enterprise, no project that will start if it does not have land books, ownership issues, security issues in business investment. And this is one problem that has both its history and its past. We are witnessing that many land books date back to the time of Austria-Hungarian, has its present. It's a problem that today we can discuss it this way. We have seen that, we can't say that this legislative proposal has now led to a solution to the problem of the whole of the problem of fixing land-book law, but we can say that for a whole number of years already here over 10 years this problem primarily wants to be solved, modernised in a modern, accessible way to make this right available to all citizens in one easier, cheaper and more economical way. That this legislative proposal has its future according to the instruments and new solutions that we have discussed in our first reading, and in this final text of the law, we can first and foremost see in the name of the HDSSB club that we have supported and the first reading of the law and that we certainly support this final text of the law because it serves legal certainty, greater quality of the service of the judiciary, speed of settlement of proceedings and it is certainly not good that there is no legal certainty or a stable state in the judicial and legal sense if we have so far witnessed that there has been an unequal case law, that in some courts in the Republic of Croatia the same legal issue of land-booked matter has been resolved in a completely different way. Therefore, this is the introduction of a high court of land and book that will resolve the appeal procedures, surely leading to a level playing field and that the law and laws for all citizens in all areas of the Republic of Croatia on this matter are equal. This is very important, first of all, because it is about ownership issues, issues of outstanding data in land books and issues of legal certainty and the very Republic of Croatia itself. The introduction of new institutes, the objection as a remisonary remedy that will simplify and speed up the solution of the problem in the land-based court itself is certainly something that will help reduce the duration of the proceedings and the safe economy of the proceedings when the parties face such a problem. The resolution that issues of land-book solutions will also be decided by judicial advisers who have completed undergraduate studies, the Faculty of Law and the judicial exam and the establishment of human resources. Therefore, solutions in the land-book departments of courts as provided by law. It's something that's first and foremost good and will contribute to a faster and cheaper process resolution. The transition to full digitization is already being witnessed now that there is a resolution with, to digital extracts from the court's land and book department. Complete digitization is something that will primarily contribute to security and data preservation whether it should be fully crossed, so from this manual to this digital. We have seen in the reasons that this is something that defines security and above all something that needs to be supported as a legal solution. In a procedural sense, redefine the establishment, renewal and addition of land books as well as solutions in the law on individual proper procedures, as well as in order to simplify and speed up the process of uniform application of procedural material law, is well resolved by this legislative proposal. We can also say that these funds that have been invested in the World Bank's loan in these past years are somewhere around 35m euros, which has been spent so far in the settlement of cadastrian particles in the Republic of Croatia, we can point out that there is no solution to the entire land-book problems and unsettled land-books unless the issue of geodetic measurement of all cadastrian particles in the Republic of Croatia is fully resolved. We have seen data that this is moving about three, all about 3% of the issues of geodetic measurements of state land in the Republic of Croatia, that this situation is not good, that this situation does not lead to any legal certainty, it is certain that there will be a uniform application of law and legal insight into the real state of land books from what will be achieved by digitising only when the geodetic measurement of all cadastrian particles in the Republic of Croatia is fully measured. This is, above all, a problem that prevents entrepreneurship, prevents the opening of entrepreneurship zones, inhibits investment in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, and this has indeed already been heard in past discussions something which is the cornerstone of the legal security of the Republic of Croatia as well as the foundation of legal certainty of investment in the economy. Because if we really don't take steps, we can't say that so far nothing has been done about it. Yes, but that should be speeded up, that funding in the state budget should not be provided to move things forward if we are witnesses unfortunately due to the economic and financial crisis in the country. But we are witnessing that this 2013 budget also reduces funds in some parts of the Republic of Croatia to 50% for the geodetic measurement of cadastrian particles. This will not contribute to legal certainty or the effectiveness of the law. So, this is a problem that is also related to a problem that can only be solved through unique treatment in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, so regardless of the financial crisis, it is necessary if we really want the real situation in land books and the real state of ownership of individuals, individuals and persons, legal persons and the Republic of Croatia themselves. So that's something that needs to be brought first of all into line with the joint efforts of all clubs, regardless of which, this is not a subject which is something that needs to be cut politically. This is our common interest, the interest of the Republic of Croatia, our citizens, and here we all need to find the strength and opportunities to solve this problem. On behalf of the club, we wanted to submit an amendment to this issue to determine the fees for land-based books by electronic means. The minister explained that it wasn't like that. What we also suggest is that there may be more time for ministers to redefine and better legally resolve this issue because it is difficult to distinguish what it is to use this right for individual purposes for natural persons and what it is for commercial purposes for legal persons, law offices and the like. Well, maybe even though the intention is clear, you've explained it, maybe a legal solution should do it a little better. The same thing that is left open as an open question is that each party is costing in the process. It may be possible for some parties to be introduced through a procedure not by their own will and desire but by the wish of the person who wishes to resolve his legal situation and his right under ground-book law, so it is necessary to see whether it is fair and fair to bear the costs of both parties equally because one of the parties can be found in the procedure as a party who has not entered the procedure by his own free will but by the will of the other person. As far as the other laws are concerned, it is certain that this practice that you can get a solution in court today in one day, somewhere you can get 241 days, somewhere it lasts on average for 34 days. This intention under this law is that the average of 34 days will arrive at about 7 days to resolve the procedure is something that needs first of all to be supported. We hope to see really only when these changes and additions come into effect whether they will, but the intention is good and the intention as such should be supported. The current number of cases is 7,000 appeals, to be reduced to three, four thousand and less. This is all the intention that this law, as a strong judicial instrument, makes available to the parties and we are sure, and we want to be absolutely sure when this law comes to life and new instruments and new institutes that are provided for by this law come to the courts' land and book departments that this will prove to be of general interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and then to the Republic of Croatia as a whole. The HDSSB Club supports this final text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36795	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Branko Vukšić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36796	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here is just when I thought that I was able to catch Minister Milenić in a mistake in illogicality, in some pressure on the citizens he admitted that the reasons of articles 32 and 170 were bad, in fact, that it was not about the collection of insight into land books but that only those insights, i.e. those printers that are used for commercial purposes, would be charged. I have to admit, the minister broke my thesis at first. But it's better that he brought down the thesis for me than that interpretation that's probably going to change in law. It is already known that whoever rules the information rules the world. In order to at least partially rule the world, at least the more visible public and accessible parts of the world and citizens must at least partially rule the information. And it's rare that they have information. One of the most intriguing, one of the most accessible information in Croatia is the one about the content of land books. As counterpart Salapic said before, this law regulates the foundation of legal security and citizens and companies, as well as those who want to invest in Croatia, and we all know well how much we cry out in this House, how much they cry out to the Government for investment. What we're doing today and what we did in that set of laws regarding justice and justice, we took a big step forward. Not long ago, you should have waited for days to surrender your submission or for insight into the land books. I know I've waited many years for a book solution. I don't know. I don't think I've waited seven or eight years for a book. If anyone would let me rank the greatest success of the state administration at the very top, it would just be the digitization of land books. Finally, all land-booked data has been transferred from those thick, dusty and often folded books into digital form. That's why everyone's data is finally available via the Internet. The digitisation of land books is one of the most successful, one of the most efficient, most tangible anti-corruption measures. In the '90s and years later, many citizens who urgently needed a solution to the book for selling or buying an apartment had to engage in an additional cost. It was to be removed from the pocket several hundred marks, later on the euro, the service was not cheap, and they had to give the money a link that hurried the solution in the book. And no wonder the people who did those jobs got rich. Today the items are solved either within 30 days or in some cases in 40 land-book departments, I know how well it works, for example, in Čakovec, you can get anything in just one day. The digitization of land books cut off at least a fraction of the corruption octopus. And that's certainly commendable and encouraging. So you can. You can go ahead. Digitalisation and the creation of a unique system of Real estate registers that will combine data from land books and catastra is trying to encourage those who would invest their money in Croatia. However, I have a question to Mr. Minister, when the data of the cadastra and the gruntovnica will be combined, you have to know that the cadastrian particles differ in the grantovnica and in the cataster in the number or even in the owners, how will it be done when such problems occur, how will it be solved, and how long will it take to solve such problems that are great? And before that, some predecessors said, you know well that either in Istria, Dalmatia, there are small particles of land on the islands where you have twenty, thirty owners, co-owners, some of them in Australia, some of them dead 50 years would be interesting to hear in which ways will be solved, not solving these problems that are great and in cities. It won't be possible to do what the minister said in the introduction. Thus, the Ministry of Justice and this law set out to create a new entrepreneurial investment climate. Part of the state bureaucracy no longer stands in the way of investors, most of it still succeeds, the truth plantes the feet of anything that tries to walk upright. The Kukuriku government has not yet found a model to prevent red tape from being used for its own benefit or for damage to investors and citizens. A segment of land books can serve us honorably. It is amazing that 20 million people online each year check the status of real estate. This is what we are in European, possibly global trends. Finally, the state has made one important information available to citizens and in the most democratic way free of charge. In fact, not entirely free, the state charges everything in various ways. In this explanation, he then tried to push through the thesis as someone benevolent allowed citizens to review and print real estate status for free. It should be recalled, as the minister said at the outset that the money for digitisation and I am convinced 1000% significantly more expensive than the real market price, that they gave citizens. So, citizens financed their money through digitisation to ease their suffering, to make information about their own properties more accessible and to be able to register more for life without bribing someone. Electronic application, electronic solutions, electronic file and digital archives allow rationalisation, and this means the costing and shortening of proceedings on Earth-booked courts, the number of Earth-booked courts, which is also one type of savings, the money and time will be burned, and only one court will decide on all complaints in land-booked cases. This will hopefully even the case law. What is encouraging but what is so far just words and we are waiting and actions is what the minister said in the introduction when you have a unique problem you will also have a unique solution. Let's welcome that too in Croatia. It is absolutely certain that with this clarification given by the minister at the very introduction, Croatian Labourists can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36797	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36798	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support this law as a further step and further progress in addressing the land-based and catastrian situation in Croatia and in the final and full transparency of real estate traffic. It's a pleasure to say that this area is one area where the laws we've been making, I would now say systematically for maybe ten years now since the land-book reform started, that they're mostly being implemented. And they are being implemented because they are being provided parallelly with a financial basis both from the budget and from the World Bank's loans and from European projects. Therefore, they are provided with conditions so that they can be implemented. Here I find it 50 million euros a difficult project, but today we are truly witnessing one full transparency of traffic, traffic of real estate, insight, everyday insight into the state of the land-booking state, and also in the state of proceedings before Earth-based courts. Now here's one step further, so with the increasingly up-to-date alignment between catasters and land books. We have heard here that in a particular part of the country they are still out of sync, that they have small particles etc., but the cadastrian shootings are expensive and it requires a certain time, time and resources, but also further progress in the fact that the ZK extract can be obtained anywhere regardless of the area in which the court, regardless of where the property was located. We think this proposal has several valuable solutions. They're probably listed here. I will first of all commend here and we have done this in the first reading, editing the process of rebuilding land books since throughout the courts in Croatia this practice was different. Some of them strictly stuck to the law. Some courts were, they found ways to be more efficient and to solve the way it is the essence and purpose of the restoration, which is actually the purpose and purpose of the restoration. It is good that the legal provisions are now amended in accordance with best practice so that the application will also be uniform in all courts. Furthermore, further development of the institute of the proper procedure to be applied as widely as possible. Of course complete digitization. I think the conditions have come, that the time has come for us to replace the books in full with digital data. Of course, there are important insurance to avoid breaking or losing data, but of course it all has its technical capabilities. It's a good distinction between jobs, clearly between the U.K.'s court of reference. I am pleased to say this, in my first reading, that they are recognized in this law by the prime ministers in the bologna and I appeal to all other restores to follow this example equally so that a valuable counsellor can be recognised by the courts since after a new system of progress in the judicial duties and the election for judges by introducing a large number of quality people who know the job, who are ready to do the job of court counselors will remain and that they should be used and an adequate place to find them in these affairs. As well as improving delivery provisions, it must, delivery must be effective and rapid so that the case can be concluded. In relation to the text in the first reading in this second reading, the amended provisions have also been made in such a way that the decision to open the correct procedure is provided only to persons from whose enrolment it is unequivocally possible to conclude that delivery can be completed. It is a commendable change for the economics and speed of the process but here it opens up one question of the possibility of abuse and now the question is how will this undoubtedly conclude that delivery can be carried out? Although there is a public advertising reserve there but we know that people don't read public ads every day. And the question is who and how and in what way, it will likely have to be determined by the rules that it is unequivocally determined that a delivery can be carried out. Of course, I am warning of this provision because it is possible for every reference to decide what can happen. We absolutely commend the introduction of the High Land Book Court as one of the second-degree land-marking courts. This first and foremost enables the introduction of a unique practice in land-marking procedures that has so far been diversified by all county courts and people have found it difficult to do so and also enables what is necessary for quality solutions and that is the specialisation of judges. We also support the absolute introduction of the objection as a revised remedy, so that second-degree courts are not burdened, that the procedure is not complicated for the citizens. We think that's good. What I have to say to the proposer. Today he receives his own commendation but I would say something, that I am sorry that the promoter has not shown himself about the remarks that are in the debate, whether representatives and club representatives. By reading the explanation, we read the differences between the solutions proposed by the final proposal compared to the proposal in the first reading. These are good solutions, but I see that they are mostly according to the proposal of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, who certainly knows this issue well and has proposed good solutions and some proposals from the Committee on Law, for the Justice and the Committee on the Constitution, and in the fifth section, which lists the proposals and opinions given on the proposal which the Proposer did not accept, says the following sentence: "All the proposals of the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System have been accepted." But I don't know if it's some new business maybe a provision, whether the proponent keeps the comments of MPs and clubs insignificant, less valuable or less professional, so he doesn't pay any attention to them or even enough to find it appropriate to say why he didn't accept them. But here's what I'm going to say about the remarks made by the HDZ representative's club in the first reading and some of the things he warned about that the motioner didn't show himself about, but as far as I remember, there were objections and other MPs, so at the very least, that would deserve one explanation. First, our warning or question is given the question of trust in land books. So we put it as a problem where the enrolment is being conducted. So so far, the enrolment has been carried out before the power of a solution as it is quite quickly in many courts after enrolment, but in some courts not immediately there is a time when there will be enrolment in the land book, and that the enrolment will not be justified. We asked the question whether a provision could be introduced to make a note of that entry, a note that enrolment is not powerful to the power of the solution, and we did not get an answer. In fact, when someone makes an insight into the land book, he sees the owner there with full trust, he can acquire that property without actually having the rightful entry and the person doing it knows nothing about it. It is therefore not mandatory and the provisions on trust in land books say that the citizen is not obliged to investigate the records in land books for this trust to be worth it. Here's what we expected. And something else that no one here mentions and I'm surprised that it's social Democrats, laborists, etc. they have not noticed, and these are the cost provisions. So somehow it was shyly mentioned in Article 8 that in land-based library procedures each party bears its own costs. So far, it has been a provision for the costs to be borne in accordance with the Law on Procedural Procedure, so the party that fails to make up for the costs. Here it is very simple to say that everyone is carrying their own costs which means next, and that has been so in practice so far. I have held and held that it is not right and it is not fair for citizens that when you are given the wrong entry, for example, the court may make a mistake, you will not be able to correct it, but by appeal or complaint. It will cost you some tax on that and when you succeed in that, it is said that someone has wronged no one, but the party that requested it will have to pay the tax. Equally in the proper procedure, someone may request the proper procedure, the person enrolled will have to react somehow and will have to defend himself, engage in the procedure, have some costs. If it turns out to an unwarranted no one at all. Thus, the costs of the proceedings are beaten again at the small door unwarrantedly and when they were caused and when they were not blamed for the citizens. First, it began right in the term of this Social Democratic Government, the first time that happened to the Law on Amendments and the Law on Administrative Disputes when it was also undetected that in administrative disputes each party was carrying out its own costs. I've already talked about it, but it's worth repeating, so if in the administrative procedure of the state twice denied me my right, if I press charges in the Administrative Court and I run a administrative dispute and I get an administrative dispute and I prove in a third instance that the state had no right, the state says now I'm paying the expenses that the citizen had in running this procedure. And I'm surprised that absolutely no one notices that on the back of those citizens who are not guilty of anything, they didn't do anything about it, but they had to make an effort to get to their right when they prove that they were punished in a way that nobody would ever pay for it. But that's why in a lawsuit when you argue with another citizen then it certainly says that the costs will be paid by the one who loses the dispute because he's actually the reason and because of him the costs have finally been incurred and there has been a judicial dispute because he claimed something that the court says is not true. Here we are sorry about that, but taking into account the overall changes and additions to the law, we are assessing that there are several good things that are being regulated by these amendments and additions on the trail of further settlement and reform of land-book legislation that should be supported, but we are sorry that the promoter of these remarks has not been manifested, and we are particularly sorry that additional costs are being put back on the back of citizens, those citizens who did not cause them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36799	Thank you. The Republic has Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36800	Dear colleague Lovirn, you're absolutely right. It is absolutely certain that no citizen should bear costs for the wrong entry. So it repeats itself again that the state is stronger and it can push. So when the state makes mistakes then the cost would not be all the cost to pay, but the costs should be paid by the one who caused the mistake and I fully support you in that, and that's where the laborers adapt to this opinion of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36801	The answer to the replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36802	Thank you very much. So here's my colleague Vuksic now to process myself and you from our colleague Stazic, or vice president yesterday, teaching us when we can replicate and how we can replicate and what Klaic means by replica. I think that we must work on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament above all, and then as an auxiliary means to use Klaic, so I also reached out to Klaic from the '83st edition of the Croatian Mother who says that "the replica is a short answer to someone's speech, an observation from the place at Congress or Assembly". So if you want a newer dictionary on the Internet he only says in one part that it's an opposition but it's not necessary. In artistic terms, the replica of the copy is always in music and art. So we can, in response or replica, say that we agree, and I really agree with you on everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36803	I don't know why you came to me. I didn't warn anyone. We're moving on to an individual discussion. First in line is colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36804	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I think this bill calls for congratulation to the government, especially the resolution ministry, headed by Mr. Orsat Milenic. These things must be an example to others as they do. When there was a problem, and the problem was here, we also heard in the application of the existing law that was good in many provisions. It is now seen in something that was not good, that is, how practice distorted it and how it had to be done. It has also been mentioned here that the land-book reform began 10 years ago, specifically over 10 years ago, in 2002 when we took a loan, a world loan from the World Bank worth 7 million euros and immediately provided considerable resources in the budget. During all these years, many of the funds have increased to comply with the land book, that is to say, the principle of trust in land books that once existed were true and that is to say, in land books, they would be true and accurate. We're on our way to accomplish it, but unfortunately, that's still not the case. As a result, this proposal will certainly speed up the principle of trust in land books, which will then certainly lead to trust in both institutions, which is so important and important to us. No government can function without trust. That is why, in a broader context, it needs to be seen in this way, especially in land books, ownership issues, and other real rights as fundamental human rights. But also as part of the economic recovery, the economic progress of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. When we're talking about, I'm going to say something concrete about certain provisions. So, about where the role is recognised, and that's an even bigger UL of referents. They can be administrative lawyers, so they also have higher preparation, but they are mostly middle-experienced people. It is noted that, unfortunately, Croatia still does not have a systematic education for people who should work as ZK referents. That's why it seems to me to be a good idea, and here I propose to Mr. Minister, we have a judicial academy, let's not be prisoners that it's reserved only for the judicial staff, in terms of education of state judges, but I also think that those who claim to build their profession as ZK referents are strictly, professional, specialized knowledge that is not acquired unfortunately in any school except law school and very generally. And all the weight to speed things up should be given to these people. There's been a lot of talk here about the restoration of land books and there's been a big problem, a big problem because of unequal court practice, and it's good to react to this change that's going to bring about the restoration of land books. Because the restoration of land books is a expensive thing with incorrect but in the beginning of enrolment in land, it has produced a lot of injustice to people over the last few years. Therefore, this is, as the Prime Minister said, it was unfortunately not an individual thing and in this way should be reacted. When I mentioned more introductively how huge the resources were spent in transforming the land's paper-shaped book into electronic form, I have to say that it's a complex process in itself. But it's sad, and we have to point out that from 2004 to 1 2, 3 years just to make the headlines, and people, and even journalists, don't know what it is, how much we are, how we've transformed the land book back then. And we spent money and dropped money because only the old enrolments, the old enrollments were reshape, or copied into electronic form. And so they lost huge resources. But I can say that in 2005, 06, it stopped, but for the first two years, huge funds have been thrown away for several news promotional activities, so to speak. The tendency is that the catastre, that the land is fully catastrus, but now we have and we have no problem, but we have a tendency or legal solution that more future land books will not be run in the old way, therefore, in paper form but there will be only one form and that is an electronic land book. It is well recognized here in the article, just a moment, so 199.d but also in other provisions that speak exactly about the fact that previous entries will be scanned because they haven't been doing it in the last few years either, it wasn't. People had terrible problems, that this electronic form, the electronic form, didn't correspond to that written and written even less catastrus. So it also produced additional costs and huge costs, but now that's stopped, it's coming to an end. There's been a lot of talk also about individual corrections and there's right all those who talk about what's clearly been wrong, so it's not about the dispute... It's about the wrong enrollment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a way to solve this, I think it will also be accepted, that it should not even be, that it should only be willing in the application of the law that in a classical sense it is not the right procedure but that we can solve it precisely under these last provisions, the provisions of Article 86 which states that more detailed issues are being governed by the Internal Design Regulation, the management of land books and the conduct of other affairs in the land-booked departments of courts. After all, there's a land-based book codebook. The Rules of Procedure should specify in particular that the error made by the State body i.e. the court or the ZK department does not force the parties to any proper procedure, it is not a proper procedure but a classic lapsus kalama, and the old Roman principle that we continue to apply in this most modern form of errat corriga therefore wrongly corrects. So we will protect the parties and the state will simply admit what it has done wrong. After all, a lot of things can happen to him like this, and I believe that this will happen especially in the Rules of Procedure. In addition, many here have said that the land's book is the best prevention in the fight against corruption. When we receive the perfect principle of trust in land books, when these data are true and accurate, we will be able to bear witness to it. Unfortunately, however, we have exact enrolments that are formally accurate and where we have nothing against the court, although a lot of things have happened in the '90s. But I'd like to point out here in particular, that's a different story, but how much in public has echoed exactly that and a sentence of how it's the best anti-corruption element. Unfortunately, this is not because many still register their properties in someone else's name and in the name of some absolutely unknown persons, and it is about grand buildings and famous properties, but to strangers who, according to their incomes, would not be able to buy a dog or, as we in Dalmatia say, a doghouse. But let us now let these things go on the side, I welcome the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books, and I believe that all these problems, many problems will be resolved very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36805	Thank you very much. Proposer's closing statement, Justice Minister Mr Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36806	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to thank everyone for the debate, primarily on the basis of the law. It was pleasant to hear that we were on the right track and that what we were doing was supported by everyone who had been exposed. There are a few questions that were open, so I'm just going to refer to them briefly, so maybe start at the end. What is now mentioned about the Judicial Academy and the need for education is the key not only to this law but to everything that comes from our portfolio before you. A good law that doesn't have anyone to implement doesn't mean anything, so we wrote it, we praised it, nothing will happen. The fact is that at this point, we are not satisfied with the way that education, coherence and the need for what is being implemented. And that's something we have to change. I'll give you an example. When the Law on Administrative Disputes started, there were talks about him, we asked the Judicial Academy to educate people who would represent the ministries, say, just to get close to them what was happening because the state was exposed to a completely different way of doing it. The answer was no because they had nothing to do with the judiciary, they're not judicial officials. It was similar with the referents, and that's something we're going to change and that's going to be with you in due course. All those involved in the judicial decision-making process must therefore be educated. Here are the ZK References absolutely, and everyone else, they have to get quality education so they can just carry out what you're voting for. Now we're not satisfied with what's going on here, and we're going to change that. We started with one debate... land vessels, who's better, who's not, somehow it went that way. So I'm the Minister of Justice, I claim that land courts are absolutely better, and I have data that link that up and would never agree to land courts coming under the Geodetic Authority. That's out of the question. It is possible to discuss another solution, that as a technical means they come back under land vessels, it is also one option. We're going to have to open this topic sooner or later because we need to be aware that something is causing us problems in everything we're saying, and we're doing only one segment here. Don't forget, we're sorting out what the land-book court is doing here. We're not here to... what the catastre does and we all have two procedures in one. We have one side of the administration and we have one side of the court. Many countries that have gone into this dual system are looking for a solution, they haven't found it because they're often different procedures and you will now, let's put it in one place and give the same result. What we see is one of the possible solutions is the ZIS, it is mentioned here, so this common information system, it is one new approach through procedures, but primarily the software that is financed from the World Bank loan and which is here I will say in the segment of the judiciary developed well. We've got it in production at five locations and we're ready to move on to everything tomorrow. But that's where we're even getting that connection, that's what we're working on. There will be an opportunity for sure in the next half year or year, someone will ask or open the debate, so I'll let you know how we stand, but it's one of the tools that we see that could mean solving this issue of duality between one and the other. Because if we're going to achieve that ultimate goal, we're going to have to solve it sooner or later. We're on our way, but I can't guarantee you that tomorrow or in a year, but we know what we're gonna do. That's one of the problems. Measurements, i.e. coordination. Of course 5% is official data. If we take what the citizens have spent we may be coming to about 40 to 50%. We'll have that information because we're going into analysis, we don't have it now because he didn't register as one. So, what's consistent with the real condition with what it is. That also raises the question, you know, when we're doing it, it means what it's like now. We have property, we have property. That's why this is something and it's extremely important for us to have our garter running because you're going to get a loan with it, you're going to transfer the property with it, you're not going to own it. Criticism. Of course, there is a system until the citizen gets what he needs at the same time, and we can't be satisfied. But the people who work in the garter did the job. We started with over 200 days of national average. We're on 34 now. Are we satisfied? We didn't. You know why? Look at our website. We're monthly renewing 10 courts up and down that are the fastest and slowest and as long as we have one court over those 34 days we won't be satisfied, but there's been a huge shift. I say from over 200 days we've come to an average of 34, and ambition is 7. And in that case, there will be some that will solve longer, but I'm talking about averages. So it's done, it's done by people who work there, who have shown that they can do it by solutions so far, and now we're giving solutions that will speed it up even faster. It's this law that's before you. We asked how to coordinate the situation. There's a whole series of mechanisms here. I don't want them, but we have through reconstruction, establishment procedures, and we have what citizens can always launch with an elaborate on the harmonisation of the catastrian and land-booking state. We must be aware that most of these procedures will never be done under official duty. Part of it will, but part of it will always be saved on the citizens' initiative and that's it. We have to work parallel here. So we're giving tools here so that something can be done, but without the initiative of someone who's interested, nothing will happen. In some cases they will, in some cases they won't. I'll tell you one thing that's also within the law that's, say, that partial reconstruction and through measurements. We've now had a situation if you want to solve I don't know the town of Senj you have to measure Velebit and solve everything in one package. It's just too expensive and unnecessary right now. Now we've allowed a partial to do it. The data is one indicative, it is the World Bank's data that is a measure of 119 euros per particle, i.e. 363 euros per hectare. That's the price we're gonna pay, but then we're not gonna do everything I say, Velebit right now. Let's make it a place where citizens feel it every day. It's a priority. We have a program here, but that's it, we'll talk about it. As far as these unequivocal questions are concerned, how to determine whom no solution will be delivered, which is unequivocal that no delivery can be made. You have a whole series of enrollments where, say, someone enrolled nine hundred and three, so now there aren't a whole hundred and ten-year-olds who need to be delivered, and I still don't know how to live in South America, and then the party loses two years at it. Yeah, there's a risk. It may not be delivered to anyone who's supposed to, but there are mechanisms to resuscitate it later, but we're going for efficiency, we're going to get rid of it here now, so if any 110-year-olds actually come forward, there's another way to correct it. There's been a question of these people who've had a problem with her booking so far. So, we're dealing with the future with this law. What do we want? Where we can't see, where there's no owners, it's much simpler to be the Republic of Croatia and then if there's nothing to turn to to someone to get that property, then in the present frozen situation where it's nowhere and they want to sue, there's no one to sue. And we're dealing with this. Common property. A temporary solution, transitionally, but at this point because of the cost, all of this will finally solve it socially that still exists, and we will be able to get through this in a cheaper way individual ownership. I mean, there's nothing else. At this point we haven't found another mechanism, if we find it we'll change. Cost. It's an extra-parnian procedure. Each party will normally bear its own expense. Yeah, but they're not controversial procedures. Of course, somewhere out there with all the people who have been damaged by the state, or the court, because he's done something potentially wrong, so he'll normally get the cost back. Well, that's undeniable, it never was. But you've had a lot of abuse here because of that expense where some have been involved in the procedure to get the cost and tighten it through it. So, it's out-of-party procedure is the same way solved. So here are some explanations. I think that's what appeared more or less through the debate. I'd like to thank you again for your support and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36807	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36808	Next is the final law on land books, second reading, P.Z. No. 239. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments have been submitted by the special table to the MPs. I'd like a respected Deputy Justice Minister to be on the table. The first submitted by the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36809	In relation to Article 11, the Government accepts the amendment
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36810	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Article 32 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36811	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Can I give you an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36812	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36813	Therefore, this amendment proposes to delete Article 2 in Article 170a. There is no basis for eradicating the proposed provision of Article 170 and paragraph 2 as it does not provide for a fee for land registers. The possibility of such a fee being prescribed shall be left. But here you can tell who makes an interested public? Therefore, the interested public for land registers are not only citizens but are made up of and, say, banks or other institutions, and here the possibility of introducing land book insight fees is established and left behind in the event that land book insights will be used to achieve some profit, profit or otherwise through certain commercial activities. We therefore believe that the use of land-based books for commercial reasons justifies the possibility of introducing compensation for such insight and therefore we left it in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36814	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36815	Thank you. We accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment but with the emphasis that we will make sure that it is only in cases where the document has the status of public documents and when the use is as commercial as the minister and you have now promised.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36816	You're withdrawing the amendment? Thank you very much. It was Honorable Representative Igor Coleman. We're going to an amendment to the club of IDS representatives and an independent representative of Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36817	This amendment shall apply to the same Article 170a(2). The Government does not accept that amendment with the same arguments that may be repeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36818	You don't have to. Thank you very much. I'm asking on behalf of the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36819	Here's the amendment as HNS did.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36820	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's amendment was delivered within the framework of the rules of procedure. We are moving to the amendment of the Legislative Committee, Article 56.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36821	The Government shall, in part, accept that amendment in the amended form so that Article 56, in Article 199 d, which is added to paragraph 6 is amended and reads as follows: "The proposed agreement shall be prepared by the bodies referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article". In order to properly apply the possibility of co-financing of land-booking, restoration or addition of land-books or individual affairs, the conversion of land-books into land-book databases by counties or cities and municipalities or legal entities managing public good in general use, and we have introduced such an option with this article. It is necessary to lay down the powers to prepare the draft agreement and we believe that it should be prescribed in the law and therefore we would reshape paragraph 6 as we have now stated. [[Intruder: accepted.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36822	Thank you very much. The Committee accepts, becomes an integral part of the final bill. New amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 68
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36823	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36824	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. New Amendment to Article 80(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36825	The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36826	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. New amendment to Article 87
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36827	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36828	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36829	The government also accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36830	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I ask that by voting, we decide on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 109 votes to pass the law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36831	And now we'd do another point. That's the 59th of our agenda. 59. Proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 120(2) and (4) Social care Act ("National Journal", No. 33/12.) The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Legislative Committee. You took the material to the benches. Does the motionary want to explain the proposal? Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36832	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 42nd session held on 12 March 2013, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed a proposal to give a credible interpretation of Article 120(2) and (4) of the Social Care Act, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by MP Branko Bačić, acting on 6 February 2013. The Legislative Committee also considered the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 21 February 2013 which is proposed to give a credible interpretation, and the report of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of 22 February 2013 which also supports the granting of credible interpretation. After the debate, the Committee unanimously found that the proposal for a credible interpretation was established and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on giving an opinion on Article 120 and paragraph 2 of the second, fourth Social Care Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Committee shall report to the Croatian Parliament on its position and submit a proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 120(2) and (4). The Social Care Act, which reads: - On the basis of Article 81 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 119 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to adopt the Decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 120(2) and (4). The Social Care Act In doubt, who is the authorised person to appoint the founder's representative to the administrative council, it is evident that the minister responsible for social care as the founder's representative, so the Republic of Croatia, on the proposal of the administrative body responsible for social care in the county, i.e. the City of Zagreb. The explanation, given the contents of the above provisions and the fact that the Republic of Croatia is the founder of the Social Care Centre in the Countys, i.e. the City of Zagreb, it is certainly the Minister's appointment of representatives and founders to their administrative council, on the proposal of the administrative body responsible for social care in the county, i.e. the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36833	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We will also vote later on this proposal for a decision. I'm taking a break by 12:00. At 12:00, please gather around and we'll vote. Thank you very much. We move on to the proposal for a decision of credible interpretation of Article 120(2) and (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The social care law NN No. 33/12. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the majority of votes with 79 votes in favour, 25 against and 1 abstentions have been made by decisions of credible interpretation of Article 120(2) and (4). The social care law NN No. 33/12 in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36835	Can we, dear colleagues and colleagues, decide, or you will be informed that the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament has asked the Croatian Parliament to make a hasty decision on correcting the credible interpretation of Article 120(2) and (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? The Social Care Act, published in the National No. 46th of 17 April 2013 Is there a need for you? You got it in the materials. A broader explanation is given by the chairman of the board? There isn't. Can we state who is in favor of correcting credible interpretation? Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the correction was reached unanimously with 103 votes, as established by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36836	First on the report by the mandate-immunity commission on the launch of the acting representative of Deputy Representative Davor Milicevic. I ask the president of the mandate-immunity commission of Mrs. Gordan Sobol to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36837	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee considered it at 19. Session held on 12th of June 2012 Written notice on the appointment of the deputy representative submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by HDZ. Petar Cobankovic, elected representative on the HDZ list in the fifth election unit, suspended the parliamentary term by resigning on 22 March 2013 and the HDZ, in accordance with Article 12 of the first law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, appointed Davor Milicevic as deputy representative. The mandate-immunity commission has established that the legal conditions for the start of the conduct of the deputy representative Davor Milicevic have been met and unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the start of acting as deputy deputy representative. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 12 April 2013 began acting as Deputy Representative Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36838	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the mandate-immunity commission. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that 102 votes to pass this decision unanimously. Now we'll move on to making an oath of counsel. The oath shall be given in a way that the president shall read the text of the oath and after that of the representative that he has been called up and pronounced by the oath. The text of the oath reads. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36839	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36840	Congratulations to the representative on his sworn oath. I wish you a lot of success in your work. Report by the mandate-immunity commission on the request to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Darko Milinovic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. I ask the president of the mandate-immunity commission of Mrs. Gordan Sobol to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36841	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 19th session held on 12 April 2013 the request of the attorney-in-chief Rajko Ostojić for the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Darko Milinovic for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Darko Milinović is a representative of the seventh convocation of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased. On the basis of Article 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the mandate-immunity committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the next decision. During the term of the term of office, authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against MP Darko Milinovic is denied under prosecutor Rajko Ostojic's private suit from Zagreb for the defamation offence referred to in Article 149(2) of the Penal Code. The commission has taken a principled position that in the case of private prosecutors as well as in cases where the damage to the subsidiary prosecutor is placed at the place of the state's attorney because the state's attorney has found that there is no basis for launching or the conduct of the criminal proceedings, the commission will propose to the Croatian Assembly the denial of the committee. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36842	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the mandate-immunity commission. Who's in? Do you mind? The abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that 103 votes have unanimously taken the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36843	We're going to make a statement on the points of the agenda. A report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the late representative Branko Vukelic's term of office and the launch of the behaviour of deputy representative Goran Maric. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, respected by Gordan Sobol, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36844	The mandate-immunity commission discussed the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community for the appointment of deputy MPs submitted to the Croatian Parliament on 15 May at the 20th session of May. Instead of the late representative Branko Vukelic, the party proposed Goran Maric as deputy representative. The Commission found that the death of MP Branko Vukelic had suspended his parliamentary mandate under Article 10. The Law on Elections of Representatives and that, on the basis of a notice from the HDZ on the appointment of deputies of deceased MPs, the conditions for the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Goran Maric have been met. Accordingly, the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the termination of the term of office of the late representative Branko Vukelic and to start acting as deputy representative of Goran Maric on 24 May 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36845	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No interest? I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 106 votes in favour. Before the oath is made, the oath shall be given in a way that the president shall read the text of the oath, after which the representative shall be called up and shall pronounce the word "I swear". The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Goran Maric."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36846	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36847	Thank you very much. Congratulations to the representative. . I want success in working on that duty as well as all of us. [[Applause.]] Let's move on. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Željko Kerum a representative in the Croatian Parliament. I ask the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the Honorable Gordan Sobol to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36848	The mandate-immunity commission also discussed at the 20th session of 22 May this year the request of the attorney-in-chief Ivan Grubisic of Split for the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Zeljko Kerum for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Željko Kerum, representative of the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased. The mandate-immunity committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to take a decision during the term of the parliamentary term of office, withholding the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against MP Željko Kerum on the private suit of Prosecutor Ivan Grubisic of Split for the defamation offence referred to in Article 149(2). The criminal law under the suit brought to the municipal court in Split because the commission took the principle that in the case of private prosecutors, as well as in cases where the injured person, as a subsidiary prosecutor, enters the place of state attorney because the lawyer found that there was no basis for the initiation or conduct of the criminal proceedings, the commission will propose to the Croatian Parliament a denial of the authorisation. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36849	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I find the decision has been reached unanimously with 110 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36850	We're moving on to the Mandate-Immunity Commission reports. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mrs. Gordan Sobol, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36851	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First we have a report on the suspension of the term of office of representative Milan Jurković and the termination of the post of deputy deputy representative Ana Lovrin. At its 21st session, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the written request of MP Milan Jurkovic for the suspension of the term of office of the parliamentary office because on 24 May it ceased to act as mayor of Lika-Senj County and ended a duty incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary office. As the commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, the rest of Milan Jurkovic's representative's term of office ended on the eighth day of the application, and the same day ended the conduct of his deputy, Ana Lovrin, on the same day. Accordingly, the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide to suspend the term of office of MP Milan Jurkovic from the date of 6 June 2013 and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Ana Lovrin, from the date of 6 June 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36852	Thank you. We have to vote on this. To vote, we must determine the quorum. While the quorum is being determined, I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone here to discuss this? No one. I'm closing the debate. We have a quorum, so I'm voting the proposed conclusion. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision has been reached unanimously with 112 votes in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36853	The second decision from the meeting of the Mandating Commission, therefore, is the suspension of the term of office of representative Angelko Topolovac and the termination of the conduct of the deputy representative, Marijan Skuric. In fact, MP Angelko Topolovac made a written request on June 7th for the suspension of the term of office because he stopped acting as a member of the administration of a state-owned company on 31 May this year, so that his duties that were incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary office ceased. How is Angelko Topolovac in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal period of time the commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so the rest of the parliamentary term of Angelko Topolovac ceased on the eighth day of the day of the application, and the same day ceased the conduct of his deputy, Marijan Škvarić, on the same day. We propose to the Parliament that the decision of 8 June ceases the rest of MP Angelko Topolovac's term of office, and Deputy Representative Marijan Skuric ceases to act on 8 June 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36854	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? I conclude that the decision was reached unanimously with 113 votes in favour. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The next decision is related to the previous decision we made, which is the report on the start of the stay of MP Angelko Topolovac's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative Marijan Skurić. In this regard, Agent Angelko Topolovac has made a request for the settlement of the parliamentary mandate or the basis of Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament that would begin on the day of the end of the term of office. At the same time, the Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats is in line with Article 12(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament ordered that MP Angelko Topolovac be replaced by Marijan Skuric. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of Angelko Topolovac's representative mandate and the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Marijan Skvarić, of the post office. Accordingly, we propose to the Croatian Parliament to decide on 8 June 2013 to begin the stay of MP Angelko Topolovac's mandate, while Deputy Representative Marijan Skvaric begins to act as representative on 8 June 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36856	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making the proposed decision to vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision has been reached unanimously with 113 votes in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36857	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At its session of 7 June, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the written request of MP Željko Kolara, who informed him that he was putting his representative mandate to rest on the day of 3 June 2013 because he took office as Mayor of Krapina-Zagorje County, which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties. As it has been established that all the legal conditions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission have been met, it proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the standstill of MP Željko Kolar on 3 June 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36858	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making the proposed decision to vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I'm asking for a result. I find the decision has been reached unanimously with 114 votes in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36859	Here's the final draft decision today. So, at a session of 7 June this year, the Mandate-Immunity Commission discussed the written request of MP Zlatko Komadin, who informed him that he was putting his representative mandate to rest on the date of 3 June 2013 because he took office as Mayor of the Primorje-Gorski County and which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duty within the meaning of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. SDP pursuant to Article 12(1). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has ordered that MP Zlatko Komadin be replaced by Ada Damjanac. The mandate-immunity committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide that, with the date of 3 June 2013, the term of office of MP Zlatko Komadina begins to rest and that the deputy representative Ada Damjanac begins to act as representative on 7 June 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36860	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making the proposed decision to vote. Who's in? Against? Abstained? Score. I find the decision has been reached unanimously with 116 votes in favour. Now we'll move on to making an oath. MP Ada Damjanac took an oath at the beginning of the term of office and counterpart Skuric will now be sworn by counterpart Milan Jurkovic. The oath shall be given in a way that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath, and after that the representative shall be called up and be sworn in. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Milan Jurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36861	I swear. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36862	Congratulations. I congratulate the representative on his sworn oath and wish him success in carrying out his honorable and responsible representative's duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36863	Now we're going to vote on the topics we've been working on. First report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, the Honorable Representative, Gordan Sobol, to submit a report to the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36864	During the meeting held on 21 June 2013, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Ante Sanader for the suspension of the term of office as he stopped acting as mayor on 7 June 2013. The Commission found that the rest of Anti Sanader’s mandate began on 22 December 2011 under Article 9. On the same day, his deputy Dinko Bosnjak started acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 13(1) of the Protocol, Ante Sanader submitted a written request within the legal time limit of the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposing unanimously to the Croatian Parliament that a decision be taken to suspend the term of office of MP Ante Sanader from the date of 19 June 2013 and that, on the same day of 19 June 2013, Deputy Representative Dinko Bosnjak cease to act as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36865	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, please, who is in favour of the decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 103 votes in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36866	Thank you. At the meeting held on 21 June 2013, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Nikola Vuljanić to comply with Article 14(1). The Law on the Elections of Representatives shall put its parliamentary mandate on hold on 1 July 2013. Article 14(1) states that a representative shall have the right once during the term of office to submit a written request to the President of the Parliament for a term of office. The commission has found that MP Nikola Vuljanic has so far failed to exercise his right to put the parliamentary mandate on hold. The Croatian Labour Party, in accordance with Article 12(1) of the Croatian Parliament, has ordered that MP Nikola Vuljanić be replaced by Nenad Plesa. The mandated Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a decision on the rest of MP Nikola Vuljanić's term of office on 1 July 2013 and to begin acting as deputy representative of Nenada Plesa on 1 July 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36867	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. Who's in favour of the Proposal for Decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision has been reached unanimously by 103 votes in favour. Please take the next decision of the Honorable President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36868	At its meeting of 21 June, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the written request of MP Ruža Tomasic to comply with Article 14(1). The Law on Elections puts a parliamentary mandate in a standstill on 1 July 2013. The commission has found that the representative has so far failed to exercise her right to put the parliamentary mandate on hold. Croatian party of law Dr Ante Starcevic in accordance with Article 12. The law on the election of MPs has ordered MP Ruža Tomasic to replace Ivan Šimunovic. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Parliament to adopt a decision on the stay of MP Ruža Tomasic's mandate on 1 July 2013 and to begin acting as deputy representative, Ivan Šimunovic, on 1 July 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36869	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 105 votes for the proposed decision. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36870	At the meeting held on 21 June 2013, the mandate-immunity committee also discussed the request, the written request of the representative Davor Ivo Stier to comply with Article 14(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament puts the parliamentary mandate to stand still on 1 July 2013. The commission has found that the MP has so far not exercised his right to put the parliamentary mandate on hold. The Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 12. The law on election MPs has ordered that MP Davor Ivo Stier be replaced by Tomislav Klaric. The mandate-immunity committee proposes to the Parliament to adopt a decision on the stay of MP Davor Ivo Stier's mandate from 1 July 2013 and to start acting as deputy representative of Tomislav Klaric on 1 July 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36871	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find it unanimous with 105 votes for the proposed decision. I'm asking the president further.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36872	At the meeting held on 21 June 2013, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the request of Representative Andrej Plenkovic to comply with Article 14(1). The Law on Elections of MPs puts its parliamentary mandate on hold on 1 July 2013. The commission has found that the MP has so far failed to exercise his right to put the parliamentary mandate on hold. The Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 12. The law in the Croatian Parliament ordered that Representative Andrej Plenkovic be replaced by Damir Jelic. The mandate-immunity commission therefore proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a decision on the rest of MP Andrej Plenkovic's term of office from the beginning of the stay, with the date of 1 July 2013 and the start of the conduct of Deputy Representative Damir Jelic's post on 1 July 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36873	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please plead. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, 106 votes have been voted in favour of the proposed decision. Thank you very much. Please continue, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36874	The mandate-immunity committee discussed the proposal of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia for the appointment of deputy representative Zeljko Kolara, who began its term of office on 3 June 2013. The Social Democratic Party of Croatia in accordance with Article 12(1). The Law on Elections by Dubravko Bilic as deputy representative. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to take the decision on 21 June 2013 to begin acting and replacing MP Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36875	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please plead. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that 105 votes for the proposed decision have been voted unanimously. Please, Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36876	At the meeting held on 21 June 2013, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the written request of Agent Tonin Picula to comply with Article 14(1). The Law on Elections of MPs puts its parliamentary mandate in a standstill on 1 July 2013. The commission has found that Agent Tonino Picula has so far failed to exercise his right to put his representative's mandate on hold. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide that with the date of 1 July 2013, the term of office of representative Tonin Picula begins.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36877	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimously 105 votes for the proposed decision. Please proceed with the esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36878	At the meeting held on 21 June 2013, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the written request of Mr Biljana Borzana to comply with Article 14(1). The Law on Elections puts its parliamentary mandate in a standstill on 1 July 2013. The commission has found that Biljana Borzana has so far not used her right to put a parliamentary mandate on hold. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide that, as of 1 July 2013, it will begin the stay of the representative's term of office, Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36879	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimously 105 votes for the proposed decision. Now we're going to approach the oath. The oath shall be given in a way that the president shall read the text of the oath, and after that the representative shall, when called, rise up and pronounce the word "I swear". The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise consciously and responsibly in my work the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Agent Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36880	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36881	Representative Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36882	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36883	Thank you very much. Congratulations to both of you. Every new representative of the new wind in the Croatian Parliament, I hope. [[Applause.]] Please report to the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'd like the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mrs. Gordan Sobol, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36885	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 23rd session held on 28 June 2013, the mandate committee discussed the written notice by Deputy Vice-President Sandra Petrovic Jakovina to begin its term of office in the European Parliament on 1 July 2013 and to suspend the term of office of the deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that Sandra Petrovic, on 18 January 2012, began acting as deputy representative of representative Nada Cavlović-Smiljanec. As Sandra Petrovic Jakovina was elected member of the European Parliament. The term of office shall begin on the first of July 2013, and the commission shall determine that the conditions for the termination of the deputy deputy attorney's term of office have been laid down by law. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to take a decision on the termination of the deputy deputy representative Sandra Petrovic Jakovina's term of office on 1 July 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36886	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision has been reached unanimously with 106 votes in favour. I'd like to speak to the esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36887	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 23rd session held on 28 June 2013, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the written request of Agent Neven Mimica, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that, on 30 June 2013, he was relieved of his duties as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. This shall be in accordance with Article 13, paragraph 1. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a request for the suspension of the term of office. The mandate committee also discussed the request made by Neven Mimica to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the term of office in office pursuant to Article 14(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament with the date on which the Parliament determines its suspension of the term of office under Article 13. The law. The Commission has established that Neven Minica has submitted a written request to the President of the Parliament for his term of office and are in accordance with Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament met by Law laid down the conditions for the start of the term of office of representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to take a decision to suspend the term of office of MP Neven Mimica from 9 July 2013 and to begin the stay of the representative's term of office, Neven Mimica, also on 9 July 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36888	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously, with 106 votes. Thank you very much to the president of the committee, dear colleague Gordani Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36889	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and continue the work of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. Before we go to the debate on the agenda, we'll come to swear an oath to our new colleagues. Today, colleagues Nenad Pese and Tomislav Klaric will swear. The oath shall be given in a way that the President shall read the text of the oath and thereafter, when the representative is called up and pronounced by my oath. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Nenad dances.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36890	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36891	Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36892	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36893	Congratulations to your colleagues. I congratulate my colleagues and wish them successful work in carrying out this honorable and responsible duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36894	We're going to vote. First, the Mandate-Immunity Commission reports. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to file a report to Mrs. Gordan Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The mandate-immunity committee discussed at its 24th session held on 5 July 2013, I must say here and apologize in one and the other report that we have today, says June 5th, but the SDP's proposal for the appointment of the deputy representative Biljana Borzana. On 1 July 2013, the Commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate was initiated by representatives of Biljana Borzana and the SDP in accordance with Article 12(1). Law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament has been set by Hrvoja... /Buka in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36896	Please, just calm down, let your colleague go. ... Well, wait, so we've got some kind of Rules of Procedure. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go, comrades, finish up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36897	Therefore, the commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate was started on 1 July 2013 by representatives of Biljana Borzan, and the SDP appointed Croatia's Nektic as deputy MPs. This was met with the law laying down the conditions for the start of acting as deputy deputy MPs and the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide that, with the date of 5 July 2013, the parliamentary duty would begin to act as deputy representatives of Hrvoje Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36898	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. In order for us to decide, we must first determine the quorum. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? ... Please, colleagues and colleagues first beg peace in the assembly. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'd like professional services to let me know the result of the vote. Of course, the votes of those who are not representatives are not counted, so it is clear to professional services. They've known so much, they've been working here for years. I'm asking for a result. We have 76 for and 1 against. I find that the decision has been made by the majority of the votes. ... What? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36899	I'm interested in the expert services to confirm whether they counted 77 MPs with two non-representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36900	When you're in charge of the session, you'll determine it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36901	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36902	Now you won't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36903	I'm sorry. I think it's important. I'm not sure they counted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36904	Moving on to
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36905	No, so don't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36906	Are you sure or are you not sure? It's completely irrelevant whether you're sure or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36907	I now request, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, that individual representatives who are in the Assembly be counted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36908	You had to do it in writing. Use the Rules of Procedure. Don't disturb the peace of the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36909	So you're going to do it, you're going to break the Rules of Procedure, and you're going to vote the agenda with an insufficient number of MPs?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36910	We're going to take the oath.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36911	So, the MPs who are here if they vote on that principle with an insufficient number of MPs they do not have the legitimacy, they did not become MPs. I'm asking you to count yourself to see if it's true and to say people upstairs have counted 77 with or without these two MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36912	Look, I asked professional services to give me the results. They did it. So it's clear that they only counted
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36913	No, they didn't explain if they meant
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36914	They have no explanation for you. Please don't disturb the order. Comrade Dragovan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36915	On behalf of the SDP club, I think the Rules of Procedure know, you know, I don't even know what we're going through right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36916	Of course. We're going to take an oath.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36917	First, everyone out of the meeting room from their workplace and now they're coming here to teach lessons. So let's go back inside and we'll
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36918	I ask you to carry out an individual count of MPs
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36919	Now, a colleague like this, in order to ask for an individual statement, you have to look for it in writing. You didn't do that... Please don't disturb, you can't speak until I give you my word. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I take your word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't speak until I give you my word. ... My colleagues, please continue. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Sobol, go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 24th session held on 5 July 2013 the proposal of the SDP of Croatia for the appointment of deputy representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate was started on 1st January 2012, and that Sandra Petrovic started acting as deputy deputy. Since 1 July 2013 is the basis of Article 10 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on the election of members of the EU Parliament from the Republic of Croatia has ceased the parliamentary term of Sandri Petrovic Jakovina, SDP Croatia in accordance with Article 12(1). The Law on Elections of Representatives has appointed Deputy Representative Marijan Zivko. This meets the law certain conditions for the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy deputy. Following the above mentioned Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the start of acting as deputy deputy representative with the date of the 5th of July parliamentary duty to act as deputy representative Marijana Zivko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36921	I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. We have 78 votes in favour, so I find that this decision has been reached unanimously. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think you broke the Rules of Procedure that you didn't give me your word when I asked. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for 15 minutes because of your way of running the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36923	I realize your club is gone, I don't know who you're gonna consult with, but I'm giving you a 10-minute break from the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Dragovan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36924	On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36925	And the SAP club breaks for 10 minutes. We'll continue at 36. It's 12.26 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.36 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues are out of time for a break. Who's going to speak on behalf of the HDZ Club? My fellow Milkman, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36927	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here, as you can see, there's a club that we've been looking for a 15-minute break to have a chance to say something about your latest ways to run the session. It is legitimately the right of all clubs, among other things, to seek to determine the quorum needed to make decisions in Parliament. It's a legitimate right and every representative. And we used that right, aware that neither you nor today on Friday, although some call us to perform our duties and stay at the workplace regardless of their views, you managed to gather together today for a vote but in insufficient numbers to make decisions. At the first moment when the number needed to vote in the assembly was discussed, there were 77 MPs, one of whom was a colleague from our club who asked for a quorum. Two MPs who should attend today's solemn act of verifying their mandates at the time you wanted to make a decision did not have the right to vote in this assembly. Therefore, the total number, if you were all in favour of a decision, was 75 which is not enough to make a decision because you lacked a voice that our Rules of Procedure assumed. I will call you again on the fact that the procedure or procedure is the assumption of democracy. And regardless of the interventions in the Rules of Procedure you are doing this is still a valid provision for the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which you must adhere to regardless of your sarcastic remarks. And you should stick to it when this Rules of Procedure comes in favor of you, but also when it may not be in your favor because of the implementation of certain decisions. Thus, what was said when we brought the Rules of Procedure today is even more valid. Perhaps it is your suggestion that you do not need opposition in the House and that from now on we should be seen by a letter vote. So that you make decisions, even if you have a Rules of Procedure, whether you have the required number of votes or not. This way to rape democracy because you are not even able to bring in a sufficient number of MPs who will vote for your proposals is totally unacceptable. And not only is it unacceptable, it is a conflict with the basic rules of jurisdiction and democratic conduct of Parliament. This is how you want to prove that you are a different and different government. And in that statement, I'm willing to bow down and trust you completely. You are a second and different government, only you are a government that is one step at a time away from those I would say an Ususus and the attainment of democracy that we have succeeded in the last 20 years. You're taking us back to your 19th century, I'm not even talking about the 20th. This is not the way you can expect other non-imaginatives when they are not enough to revote you can even express their views. Your remarks the second time, and especially by sticking to the Rules of Procedure, keep to yourselves and now declare all this which you later did invalid. And give opportunity to people who have come to Parliament with full right to verify their mandates in a legal, legal and prescribed manner. And do not make them victims of their manipulations and destroy the day in which they should celebrate the fact that they became representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Your path is thick back. And instead of adventuring yourself with changes in a better direction. If you were adhering to the achievements of democracy and the European approach you stand for, you would remind us of what I would say. Byzantium mode or your Nordic management model You're nowhere near the Nordic countries, and you'd better stop using that in your speeches. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36928	The Rules of Procedure have not been broken. The quorum is determined by professional services. Neither me, nor you, nor any individual representative, nor any club. I have to trust professional services, and that's what I did. Therefore, I am the State of Rules of Procedure, regardless of your different beliefs. Stanku has been asked by the SDP Club, I give my word to a respected colleague, Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36929	Dear colleagues and colleagues, for the first time in the Croatian Parliament, an obstruction was made to verify the mandate of new deputies, which is embarrassing. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36930	Please don't throw it out of the bench. So don't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36931	This is about another and different government. He thinks that Croatian citizens should once again be reminded every day if they are not monitoring enough media that the Croatian Democratic Community is on trial on charges of using black money, illegal funds and that, and that, and that, from public money, budgets, state firms have financed their political activities. That's a fact. The former president and prime minister were also convicted, accused of multiple processes. The people who sat here in this assembly in this term went out because they admitted to committing criminal acts. They were sitting right there in the front row. And today we come here to the Croatian public to say that someone is acting undemocraticly, to cheat at the quorum, it is below every level of respected colleague and colleague, below each level. Since the first day of the Croatian Parliament, professional services have counted neatly, regardless of which majority and behind it has been standing and not being manipulated. You miscounted today, you miscounted today, and you did this obstructing the verification of the mandate of new deputies. What that means tomorrow when your representative comes to the Croatian Parliament and we do it the same way. That wouldn't be correct. If you want to behave, all democratic rights of battle are allowed and exit and collapse of the quorum, it's all right, but be right. You've been saying for years that you've been right or at least your leaders for years that you're right, and you've been putting money of Croatian citizens in private pockets. [[Applause.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36932	We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My fellow Milkman, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36933	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you've injured the article. I think it's 214. Rules of Procedure. You didn't warn the speaker who spoke on behalf of the SDP club first not to talk about it. His observations about the black funds.....the noise in the hall. If there is any knowledge of this, then he should be directed to know where he should have brought it out, and perhaps it would be good to talk about where the money all the media is talking about when you were selling your party's real estate to some of your leaders and how your way of making them available to Croatian citizens is evident. But most importantly, you should have warned Mr. Dragovan except that he was nervous if he hadn't talked about the subject he reported on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36934	The HDZ Club asked for a break and you said what you wanted, no one interrupted you. The SDP club asked for a break. That's not why I'm interrupting him and taking his word for him. Now we're done with this, so we're going to take the oath. The oath shall be given in a way that the President shall read the text of the oath, and after that, the representative shall, when called, rise and pronounce my oath. ... /The noise in the hall./... "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Mariana Zivko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36935	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36936	The representative of Hrvoje Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36937	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36938	I congratulate the MPs on their sworn oath and wish them success in carrying out an honorable and responsible representative's duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36939	I'd like to ask you to go to the vote now. I'd like the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mrs. Gordan Sobol, to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36940	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee discussed at its 25th session of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's proposal for the appointment of deputy representative Tonin Piculi. On 1 July 2013, the Commission found that the suspension of the parliamentary term of office of Agent Tonin Piculi started with the SDP in accordance with Article 12(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Allen Prelec as deputy representative. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Parliament to decide that with the date of 12 July 2013, the parliamentary duty begins to be followed by Deputy Representative Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36941	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 104 votes, the proposed decision has been made. There's more? Here's your esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36942	Thank you. Therefore, the Mandate-Immunity Commission also discussed at its meeting on 12 July 2013 the written request of MP Dark Ledinski on the re-behaving of the parliamentary post of 11 July 2013 which informed him that the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth had been relieved of his duties, thus ending a duty incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties. The rest of Darka Ledinski's term of office began on 1 January 2012, and Marija Vukbratovic began acting as deputy deputy MP in the Croatian Parliament. As the commission found that all the conditions laid down by law were met, and that the rest of Darko Ledinski's parliamentary mandate ended on the eighth day of the application, and that same day, the conduct of the deputy deputy MP, Maria Vukbratovic, ceased. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the suspension of the term of office of representative Darko Ledinski on 19 July 2013 and to stop acting as deputy MP on the same day on July 19th.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36943	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 105 votes in favour and 1 abstentions, have been made by the proposed decision. Now we will approach the oath of a solemn statement. The oath shall be given in a way that the President shall read the text of the oath, and after that, the representative shall, when called, rise and pronounce my oath. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36945	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u36946	Thank you very much. Congratulations to my fellow representative Prelec, I wish him successful work for the benefit of Croatian citizens and Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u47558	Opinions of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of a request by the representatives to give an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of Representative Pejo Grbin to introduce us to the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u47559	The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament held at the meeting on 12 April 2013 discussed the request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submitted by MP Ana Lovrin. It shall give the following opinion on that request: Article 184(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed that the answer to the asked question lasts for 2 minutes, but if the question is a complex answer it may take up to 4 minutes. The Committee is of the opinion that the chairman has the discretion to assess the complexity of the issue and decide accordingly on the time needed for answers. The Prime Minister, a member of the Government or a minister who answers the question may answer in a way that he considers to be most appropriate and a representative may express his satisfaction, or dissatisfaction with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. In view of the above, the Committee considers that the provision of Article 184(2) has not been violated. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u47560	Thank you. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u47561	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, now I'm going to have to ask for the opinion of the Rules of Procedure Committee again. I read Rules of Procedure, Article 211 of the Rules of Procedure, which says: The President of the Assembly shall include the opinion of the Committee on the agenda of the first day if the session is under way, or on the agenda of the next session. The board was here at 9:00 today, the opinion came about about 20 minutes ago here on the tables, you put it right now, you put the decision on the agenda right now. I think that's against Article 211, paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u47562	Well, fellow Lovrin, we've placed the agenda item, you haven't had any objections to the entry of the agenda point, so I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been harmed. The opinion of the Committee shall be decided without discussion. I'm voting on the board's opinion. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the majority of votes 79 against, 26 against, the committee's opinion is accepted. Our colleagues and colleagues therefore conclude the vote and work this week. We start on Tuesday the 16th of this month at 9.30 with the Bill on Value Added Tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u47563	Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of a request from the representatives to give an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the respected Pejo Grbin to introduce us to the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u47564	The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System discussed the request for an opinion on the infringement of Article 216. A Rules of Procedure submitted to this committee by MP Branko Vuksic. In accordance with the provisions of Article 211a and on the basis of its competence, the Committee unanimously gives the following opinion: "Article 216. The Rules of Procedure are prescribed to give the MP a warning if, among other things, he does not stick to the subject under discussion. Also, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure guarantee the right of the representative to take part in the meetings of the Croatian Parliament, to discuss them and thus publicly present his proposals, opinions and views. The President's duty is to enable each representative, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to discuss as much as possible the subject of the agenda as possible, and his right to take care of the security of order at the session, discretionaryly assess the reasons for the statement of the notice. Given the phonogram of the 8th session, this committee found that MP Boris Blazekovic had not strayed from the topic of the established agenda by discussing the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Small Economy Development Act. In view of the above, the Committee is of the opinion that the provision of Article 216 has not been violated. Rules of Procedure." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-12-0.u47565	Thank you, too. I would like to make a statement on the opinion of the Constitution Committee. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 1 abstentions are accepted by the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament first report that the 28th session of the Justice Committee will be held at 12 p.m. on May 27th, this year starting at 12 p.m. at the Ivan Kukuljevic Hall. Representatives' club, chairman of the committee, respected colleague Josip Kregar. Second, respected colleagues and respected colleagues, in the year of entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia and in honor of the mention of the Croatian Parliament 30.5. we decided to open the Croatian Parliament for one day to the citizens. Tomorrow, May 25th, our Parliament held for the first time in history an open-door event, "The Day of the Open Doors of the Croatian Parliament". I call from this place and this occasion and this opportunity for citizens who want to meet the premises of the home of democracy to come to the Croatian Parliament which will be open from 10 to 17 o'clock tomorrow. Our citizen service has prepared for them a special program of leadership through the Parliament and an interesting little exhibition. It is known that the Parliament traditionally organises meetings, or simulated Parliament in the Croatian Assembly with students and students. This is kind of new, so that's why I'm using it to inform the citizens from the presidential chair. Secondly, the continuation of the plenary session of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament is on Monday 27.5. this year at 14:00 with the first point of the Law on State Attorney's Office. I ask the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament to use their time Monday morning to hold meetings of the working bodies and the Assembly may continue in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to work on all the points provided for in the agenda. We'll schedule for Monday. It is known to you that the 30.5. state holiday is also the Day of the Croatian Parliament. So 30.5. won't work, so we start working on Monday. Thank you very much. I'll see you Monday.
