ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33786	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives, MPs. I thank you for allowing me to present a special report by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities who I wish to point out the importance of ratifying this international document. Although there have been several months since the date of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, international human rights days have passed, more and more loud warnings about the difficult situation of children with developmental disabilities and persons with disabilities have been updated for the primary purpose of this report, which is to get to know the representatives of the most legislative authorities with the unquestionable change of paradigm and disability but also the responsibility for the full national legislation and public policy to be based on the principles of human rights. During 2007, the Republic of Croatia signed and ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities among the first countries in the world. The document is above national legislation and under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Convention entered into force in the Republic of Croatia on 3 May 2008. One of the powers of the Ombudsman is also to propose to amend regulations and laws relating to the rights and protection of persons with disabilities. In carrying out this task, we have seen that there is an insufficient level of knowledge of the changes introduced by the Convention and to which we have committed ourselves. The understanding of the disability that the convention promotes is revolutionary because it stresses that the society that turns the damage of a person into a disability and that the disability is actually the result of the failure of society to involve all persons and to accept differences between individuals. In order for the entire Croatian society to get acquainted with this newspaper and with the shift in access to people with disabilities, it is necessary to conduct discussions from the lowest levels to the highest levels. Since members of the highest representative body of the Republic of Croatia and holders of the legislative authority, we believe it is extremely important that you are familiar with the changed understanding of the disability of the social model and the human rights model that promotes the convention. Therefore, in cooperation with the UN for the development of NDP Croatia, we have prepared the Croatian edition of the publication in front of you. It is called the manual for parliamentary representatives from exclusion to equality, the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities and the special report that you have also received in which we have highlighted the conclusions that will contribute to faster and more effective implementation of the Convention into Croatian society, that is to say to help people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties in Croatia from disfellowshipped citizens become equal. Through this special report, we reiterate the fact that people with disabilities are not only those with visible disability, who are used by some aids, persons with physical impairment or persons with visual impairment or hearing impairment, but also those with disabilities with intellectual impairment but also mental impairment whose disability is invisible and who are called persons with mental illnesses or persons with mental disorders in Croatian law. The Convention stresses the concept of disability as a development of the process, as an interaction of damage and the environment, and says that persons with disabilities include those with long-term, mental, physical, intellectual or sensory damage that can prevent a large and effective participation in society at the same level and with others. By ratifying the Convention, the Republic of Croatia has assumed the obligation to remove obstacles that make the damage a disability and to ensure support for disabled persons so that they can fully realise their potentials and abilities. Access to the Convention towards Disabilities also emphasises a significant impact that can make these obstacles but also in attitudes and environments on the enjoyment of human rights on persons with disabilities. The Convention recognised that the participation of persons with disabilities in society was limited or disabled. Not because of the damage that this person has but because of the very obstacle that society creates from social, legal, environmental, political and economic. In other words, for example. a child with intellectual impairment may experience difficulties at school not because of their own damage but because of the teacher’s attitude towards him, because of a non-flexible school board or parents who cannot adapt to students of different learning skills. Also, a person who moves with the help of wheelchairs when going to work may have difficulty not because of his damage but because of the inability to use public transport, but because of obstacles in the environment such as unaccessible buses, inaccessible stairs, or not overcoming stairs at the workplace that make access more difficult for that person. Therefore, reasonable adaptation is the central concept of the Convention. It speaks in fact about the possibility of making changes or making certain adjustments and adjustments that are not disproportionate to the burden for those who need to be provided, but which must not lead to an unfavourable position of persons with disabilities or allow them to enjoy its human rights and fundamental freedoms fully. The Convention introduces not some new human rights person with disabilities but explains what human rights mean in the context of disability and what the obligations of the state are when it comes to respecting and ensuring equal enjoyment of human rights. Each country must take measures that will gradually achieve economic, social and cultural rights using the largest available resources, for example in creating or improving social or health care systems. The gradual achievement gives countries flexibility in achieving these rights and objectives, however, does not release them from responsibility for the protection of these rights. Unlike these rights, civil and political rights are not subject to gradual attainment, or the Republic of Croatia is obliged to protect and promote them immediately. As we pointed out in the report, there are many reasons why it is necessary to know more about the convention for parliamentary deputies. I'll give you some of those reasons. Human rights of persons with disabilities should be promoted for the same reason that human rights are promoted for all other citizens due to the orderly and equal dignity and value of every human being. The marginalisation of people with disabilities and the support of their addictions to others is expensive for both their families and society as a whole. Strengthening people with disabilities so that they can live independently and contribute to society is socially and economically profitable. Anyone can gain disability at some point in their life whether because of sickness, accident, or age. In line with the above, we propose that the Assembly adopt the following conclusions: a comprehensive analysis of existing laws should be carried out in order to determine to what extent they comply with the Convention. The adoption of new signatures requires their compliance with the principles of human rights and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. To this end, it is necessary to develop and consistently apply the matrix with assessments of the effects of the law on persons with different types of disability and to inform and train parliamentary representatives and public servants of its consistent system of application. It is necessary to enable a person with disabilities to have access to information on the adoption of laws concerning their rights and interests and to facilitate the presentation of their opinions to the legislative authority, such as the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the work of the parliamentary committees as external members. The Croatian Parliament should ensure accessibility of information to disabled persons using this technology and adapted to different forms of disability. In particular, it is necessary to ensure the accessibility of the Croatian Assembly's website. It is necessary to ensure that existing legislation is interpreted in accordance with the meaning of the Convention. It is necessary to revise the terminology used for persons with disabilities throughout the existing legislation, taking into account the application of proper terminology when adopting new rules. It is necessary to highlight the obligation to apply the Convention directly on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the work of all State bodies. It is necessary to strengthen and further capitalise the existing central place within the Government of the Republic of Croatia for policy coordination for persons with disabilities. The rights of persons with disabilities as well as the rights of other citizens are part of the competence of all governmental resolutions and ministries, so it is necessary that all ministries are actively involved in the creation and implementation of policies for persons with disabilities in their jurisdiction. The central place for the implementation of the Convention within the Government as well as the coordination mechanism within the framework of the Government should ensure greater availability of written instructions, guidelines and recommendations as well as examples of good practice related to the implementation of certain articles of the UN Convention to all administration bodies, and ensure systematic monitoring and verification of proposed activities in relation to requests, and in order to avoid only the principle of acceptance of the proposals for measures and activities without their actual implementation. As a final conclusion, parliamentary representatives should be part of the delegation to take part in the debate on the initial report on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities before the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and be actively involved in the distribution of the Committee's conclusions. I thank you for your attention and I believe you will support the adoption of these conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33787	Thank you very much to the esteemed Attorney General, Mrs. Anki Slonjšak. I call on the representatives of the Committee of Working Authorities to present their reports. I find that not. I'm opening a debate. The debate starts with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected representative Đurdjica Sumrak. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33788	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Attorney-General of Persons with Disabilities, distinguished translators for all those using this sign letter, co-workers of the Ombudsman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm a little excited for the first time today because here he is, I'm really sure that every single one of us sitting here is a topic and conclusions that the D.A. was talking about that we're really going to support with our souls, but that we're going to be in line with those conclusions and we're going to act. The convention, according to the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, is the youngest UN international document and the Republic of Croatia is among the first four European countries to sign the convention on 30 March 2007. The pride of us in Croatia was not small, there was a long way to go and there was a lot of struggles about it, and there was a lot of work indeed, associations that particularly dealt with the problems of people with disabilities. We can say that one of my best achievements is that in 2008 we established the law by means of an attorney for persons with disabilities Ms. Anku Slonjak, at the age of 8 is her mandate but I am sure that it will last a lot more. What it means for people with disabilities who are very often in our communities, so I have to say in our families were hidden persons who needed to be ashamed, who were not to be talked about. I have to say those barriers that the D.A. was talking about, and I would call them our hidden barriers in our heads, and they can't get out, and we can't finally start acting like people to each other because this is about human rules. This way I would also like to remember our two parliamentary representatives who were disabled and who gave this Croatian Assembly a different dignity, of which we could learn a lot, which our instructors were and I must say that there is also a friend of mine who can call her Ljubica Lukačić, I can honestly call her that, today she certainly looks at this and expects us to say all of our hearts and honestly what we think. He expects us, primarily, politicians, to say under 1 that they should be involved in political life, under 2 to remember all of our people with disabilities living in rural areas, which are still not easy. Today we are talking about human rights and barriers, and there are still those architectural barriers that unfortunately will pass a lot of time and advocacy for all of us, but also for the defenders to get rid of them. And those other mental barriers that we have built into most of us must take us a long time to realize that we are all equal, that we are all God's children and that in this way we must treat each other with great respect, trust in ability. I've seen this book before, but let me read at the beginning of my discussion what really touched me. In our community, disability is viewed as a matter of mercy. You're not seen as someone who lives and can have a life, get a job, live an independent life. It's in stark contrast to our human rights. In our countries, there is a huge need to work to raise awareness. Or, for example, our Linda who says first of all from people born with disabilities like me often expects very little so that expectations are low. Secondly, physical obstacles within the communities can prevent them from accessing that community and thirdly, social barriers can make it impossible for them to access the community. So here's really all the families when you talk to them and who in their whole family life have one child with developmental difficulties, later it's a person with disabilities, however hard it is at first, however hard it is, as much as it is, so I have to say one infidel later everyone says God, so it was God's gift, my child has entrenched me, this man who lives next to me, who I care gave me the strength to see who are in the reality of other quality of life. Personally, I have a lot of celebrities who are disabled and I really admire them. It's from my colleagues who have managed to doctor, master, it's some artists who paint, there's a sculptor, so here's an actor, and I'd like to welcome again this time and this studio for the undersighted. We see that it was the 7.3th Prime Minister of Ionesco's "Celebre singer" and I have to say that there was nothing too much to say about it, and that somehow it wasn't pushed for tickets to come to that premiere, to be seen, and in reality it was worth being there, it was worth experiencing their experience, and in reality forget that there was even any barrier between them and any barrier between us. What I must say through my work, but this is also through this Committee on Gender Equality, is women's problems, people with disabilities very little talk about, little or no. Because it couldn't be said at all that these women have problems, that they are unfortunately exposed to violence and not only psychologically, not only sexually, but every other woman, that these same women are exposed to economic violence, that they can't reach jobs. I ask from this place how busy a disabled person is. Here is at least the 1600 kuna this government has proposed as a fantastic program for people to work for the lowest salary in this Croatia. How busy is it? No one we see today in the media, is being sent to political parties to notify their membership so they can get a job for the 1600 kuna. I would like to know if you were in a position to find out that the ministry's jobs are opening and that you were able to warn and meet your members and members that they may possibly report to such a job. Well, here's the thing. How do we interpret that today and in the media, but I also have to say among politicians, so here was the Minister of Social Affairs and Labour Mrs. Opacic with us yesterday. The terminology she uses is absolutely amazing, because one minister must know, I told her half the night when she wakes up and any inventory that it's about children with developmental difficulties, that it's about children and people with disabilities. Yesterday, there was no mention of a small apartment, or any other problem related to employment, which was simply a warning of how to ensure in reality that children are protected through this new Nanny Act, especially children with developmental difficulties. We're all surprised by what we're talking about here today that we Parliamentarians, we politicians and politicians are going to give a lot of money, join all your actions, and really in some way say no barriers, we want to help you, we're always available. But in order for us to do that, we have to adopt not only the terminology but that's what we're saying because that's how we feel. I won't be long now. I think we have this book in front of us today. We've all read it, but let each and every one of us deep into his heart, in his thoughts, and let him say to us living people who are just like us, who have the same opportunities, who are top athletes, actors, win medals. Well, let's say for Mr. King or some of the athletes, if it hadn't been for a lot of pressure on the sports alliances, maybe that couple of Olympic sports wouldn't have been represented on TV in our Croatia, and we wouldn't have known what they were doing here by our skiers. We admired our Janica when she came to Sljemen without one stick, and we have to admire all our children in the ski alliance that here come to the goal with much greater, I would say to them are not problems. They're to us. It seems to me that it would be a terrible problem for me, but here not only without a stick but also on one leg and skiing and swimming. And I really want this to be dedicated to human rights, meaning rights not only of a person with disabilities, but of the fact that they have their rights as well as everyone else. Thank you. We will, of course, support your initiative, Madam Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33789	Thank you, too. The replicas have been reported to your presentation, so let's get in line. The first replica of the respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic, within the party replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33790	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Comrade Sumrak, I agree, however, that we will support these conclusions, but also with the claim that they should be followed because they are increasingly loud warnings that the D.A. has confirmed about children's problems and the state of children with development difficulties and people with disabilities. We argued a lot yesterday. There's no need to continue today. But it is necessary to say that never enough effort has been made by a colleague named Tyrell to further correct the situation but also the phasing out of it. I've taken note of Mrs. Attorney General's claim to be a step-by-step. And in that sense, I want to say right about the center of Stancic. So, that deinstitutionalization project started in some way let's say, but I think that's what parents and employees warn about, and everyone can't do it in that way. Because for example in one England it is done, but it has been done for almost 30 years, 30 years because we have witnessed that in this center Stancic many people have a health needs far greater than this project can do on their noses overnight and it will cause additional difficulties and additional problems. And that's what I wanted to warn you yesterday. So absolutely one step, one approach that will, of course, not create additional problems and difficulties for those users who are there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33791	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica of the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague, you're right. But in order to get to that degree, it takes a lot of tenacity, but I would say sensitivity equally to the problems of people with disabilities. Insistence by the lady our attorney, who really has, I would say that yet a crumb lacks that sensitivity in today's government, so we must remember the former government, former then and vice-president of the government and the minister of the family, I know well that she was working very closely with the associations then and that all this and in 2007 and 2006 and the convention and all other legislative regulations would not have been resolved if she hadn't then had no empathy but simple sensitivity. She felt she had to do something. Today it should be felt by Mrs. Opačić that she is obliged to do something and wants to do it and to get to know the problem, but indeed, and to listen to these problems and to hear them. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33793	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33794	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues, Sumrak, you began to speak very nicely, widely, with tolerance and understanding of the rights of persons with disabilities, and then you quite inappropriately invited Mrs. Slonjak to engage in party discussions about who hired whom and how. So I will not in this inappropriate way involve the subject of who hired whom and in what way on the party lists because it is not really a subject to which this debate should be burdened. But your inviting Madam Attorney to engage in this debate is totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33795	Thank you very much. Replica's response, esteemed representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33796	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I didn't bring anyone into the debate, I pointed to the problem. I was just asking if Mrs. Attorney-General had received information on possible employment for a minimum wage of 1600 kuna in persons with disabilities. So I didn't drag her into the debate, and I don't think I understand why she can't point out the problem. If we can't point out the problem then it means there's no tolerance. I hope there can be no problem in this matter, and tolerance must be supreme.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33797	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33798	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague twilight, you said it was very important and important to wake up here in the Parliament the sensitivity of being all sensitive to people with disabilities. But I'll say it won't be enough. Because if we support everything and all the conclusions and suggestions that are made of course by the attorney general are absolutely acceptable and we will all certainly support them, but if this system doesn't follow with legal acts, if we don't follow with money, if we're going to solve the issue of people with disabilities in a slow manner, how does a minister come in and then a program opens up, and then six months after that, a Geronto service programme for people with disabilities is in place, and then a program is put in place to help children with disabilities in schools, and then after six months, there's no funding for it, and it's all going down, then we haven't solved anything. So we here have to systematically solve this problem, put it in legal frameworks, order everyone to proceed, provide for the necessary means. And one more thing, I come from a small town that has a strategy, has one of the first strategies for people with disabilities, who has an Association of Persons with Disabilities who employs 19 people who are currently preparing to open a company of social entrepreneurship, so people with disabilities just need to be given an opportunity and they will certainly do everything they need to do. But let's make it possible, legally, to allow support funds not to be made from time to time, from minister to minister, from government to government. That's not a good way to go, that's what this Parliament has to solve. When this is resolved, it will be much easier for everyone to function and work for everyone in this system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33799	Thank you very much. Replica's response, esteemed representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33800	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, I agree with you. You said yourself that you came from a small town where possible. So it's possible. What I think in the Croatian Parliament would be a great work to implement in the reality of all these conclusions and suggestions would be that on all our committees when the laws come to us that in some way their own opinion that the Ombudsman for people with disabilities to see to what extent what is really implemented in some law is what is stated in the conclusions, as concerns human rights and concerns persons with disabilities. I think it would be very, very good, the way it should be done and I hope that one day we will welcome it in our Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33801	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Croatian Labourists and respected representative Nancy Tyrelli are coming up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33802	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed attorneys, translators, all co-workers and associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the Croatian Labourists will support this Attorney General's report for people with disabilities, and I'll be very, very short. We all know, i.e. the best people with disabilities, who are their obstacles in this society that they meet daily, and as much as we warn and point to some things, the fact is that the collective consciousness of society in terms of people with disabilities has to change, and that there is still a very, very long way ahead of us. I'm gonna use this debate for one thing. I'm sorry that this manual contains a manual for parliamentary representatives, which has not been added to it yet for ministers. Yesterday in this assembly, we were witnesses where the resolution ministry, or resolute minister of the replica of fellow MPs, mentioning the problem of people with disabilities, criticises and declares only by collecting political points. I think this report and this convention are right on track, and that's what we've been saying all along. When any law is passed, then we need to keep in mind how many persons with disabilities are implemented in that law and how this law applies to themselves. So that's the point of this whole story, and this whole report and this whole convention, and then we fall for the most banal exam when it comes to the law in this House and when a parliamentary MP with a sensitivity to a disabled person reports that he would point out certain problems that exactly the resolute minister of these people with disabilities calls out a parliamentary representative and criticises that he's saying this solely because of the collection of political points. I think that's exactly what we have to deal with and we just have to start living. We have signed an awful lot of conventions and, in most cases, boasts that we are among the first signatories of these conventions, but it is not enough to just sign the convention. What the convention says should be implemented, this convention should live and everything it writes take seriously. Unless we really care about something. And lastly, I'm just going to take the lawyer's word out, and you said there's a lot of reasons why MPs should know the convention. Yes, there are many reasons, but it is also questionable how much more parliamentary representatives can influence the adoption of any law and how much more, and if they find that a certain amendment is needed in some law, they can really influence it. And lastly, only one sentence written in the convention, which the D.A. also mentioned, "Anyone can gain disability at any moment." And I think we should all be aware of that, and that when we make laws in this high house, we bring them with consciousness that we bring them to ourselves because that law can be our business tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33803	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is next to the HNS club and the respected representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33804	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mrs. Slonjak. Today we're discussing a report that we at the HNS Club think must be first on the list of all possible reports. The problem that the report is dealing with is a problem that has to be ahead of everything that we have to do in the first place. There is always a need for normal life in every place and only then does everything else come to the agenda. And when discussing the budget, and when discussing education, culture, health, employment, traffic safety, always the first person with disabilities, then everyone else and nothing else. Everywhere and in every place we must all have the right to equal legal treatment, we are all the same before public institutions except when it comes to persons with disabilities there are them, or they have the right to the championship. Croatia is a country with a relatively high percentage of people with disabilities, more than 11% of the defence attorney's report in January 2012. 518 801 persons, which is clearly the result of the war. Moreover, all of us who are fortunately not persons with disabilities must engage with full consciousness and human conscience in the social inclusion of all our disabled citizens, i.e. fellow citizens. In its reports, the Ombudsman warns people with disabilities that the fact is that people with disabilities are in increasingly difficult social conditions and rarely live under conditions of poverty. We at the HNS Club believe that such a thing is inadmissible, and this way we call on all state institutions, and especially the Ministry of Social Care to do everything to make sure that no person with disabilities lives in conditions of poverty. In our opinion, it's just inadmissible from the point of view of elementary humanity. For people with disabilities, funds must be found to live with real dignity and meet the highest standards that the community can give them. However, this report suggests, reports this high home and through it and the public on the importance of changing views on persons with disabilities from a medical model to a social model in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And I thank the Ombudsman for the disabled on this report and I want to begin by expressing my satisfaction with the fact that Croatia is one of the first countries to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Let me highlight some of the things in the report itself here and it concerns our parliamentary representatives, or this high house. The Ombudsman represents and asks what Parliament can do to ensure that the convention is incorporated into national legislation? And he says, acknowledges the civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights of women to men and children with disabilities, the basic law of the state or the Constitution or fundamental law. Re-examine existing provisions of the Constitution and fundamental protection, and protect disabled persons, include general guarantees of equality, prohibit discrimination based on disability, include specific provisions on the rights of persons with disabilities, revise the terminology used for persons with disabilities, adopt national legislation in which the content of the Convention is incorporated or even its entire text explicitly states that this law is enforceable before courts, adopt additional enforceable legislation depending on the existing legislation. A comprehensive discriminatory law including the prohibition of discrimination based on disability in public and private life, not discriminatory laws in different sectors such as labour, education, access to justice including disability as a forbidden area, ensuring the existence of a mechanism for consulting persons with disabilities or organisations representing them at law-making level, revise the terminology used for persons with disabilities in the existing overall legislation. And he says MPs can help regulate the Conventions into national legislation. Ensure that the basic state law of the Constitution or the basic law protects and recognises civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights of persons with disabilities, secure an analysis of existing legislation in order to establish its compliance with the Convention, ensure that all areas listed in the Convention are incorporated into national legislation as well as the new ones, ensure that persons with disabilities and their organisations are consulted during the process of law making sure that at the parliamentary level of the institution and the mechanisms to ensure that all newly adopted laws are in line with the Convention, ensure that enough financial resources are allocated to the state budget for the various sectors that are relevant for the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities. Use parliamentary procedures such as submitting legal proposals for debates, raising awareness of the rights of persons with disabilities through discussion within the political party, association with other parliamentary deputies to strengthen ability, lobbying, partnerships with persons with disabilities and public information campaigns. In reality, it's about elementary human law and it's about the most fundamental function of the state. The basic human rights of each individual are the right to life, the right to security, the right to happiness. This right of the state must ensure that every citizen, or citizen, but above all persons with disabilities. The definition of the role of the state is really simple. The role of the state is to ensure a safer, better, simpler, and happier life for its inhabitants. It is written in theory and we as citizens were fortunate to have indeed decided in a referendum on 19 May 1991 that we want to live in an orderly society or in our own country. We created the state and it's here for us, and the state didn't create us and we're not here for it. The state is ours, not hers, and we need it to serve us, not hers. As simple as the definition of the role of the state is, the state's leadership is extremely extensive, difficult, especially the content of knowledge and skills, and special intellectual and labour-based, complex work. In order for the state to be very decent, it has to take care of everyone who can't do it alone and these are primarily people with disabilities. Human rights persons with disabilities are our daily priority and primarily we colleagues and colleagues from SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU are currently responsible, soul-suffering conditions for our disabled citizens and fellow citizens. We are currently in power and it is up to us to change the model of access from medical to social and to improve the living conditions of people with disabilities daily. We can be proud to live in a country that is built in numerous public actions that demonstrate a high level of empathy for our most sick and needed fellow citizens and fellow citizens often children. But this makes it even more binding for institutions and politicians at all levels to make every effort in the country to make our fellow citizens and people with disabilities feel accepted and happy. Care for those who can't take care of themselves is talking about ourselves, talking about who we are and where we're at civilization level, we can't give in, and there can't be a drop in concentration. It is our daily obligation and always primarily those who are currently in power at all levels from the local board to us in the Parliament. And let me point out here again one embarrassing fact about everyone. It is about the sanitary, accommodation, health and rehabilitation conditions of some psychiatric hospitals in Croatia, in most of them they are inadmissible. I would especially like to warn you of the situation in the geriatric ward of the Psychiatric Hospital in Vrapč. That department is unfortunately leaving just before the end of our lives some of our moms and dads, some of our grandparents, seem absolutely inadmissible. It is usually the place that should look best and should be best equipped with the medical equipment of the newest generations and should be simply a clean, pleasant place. There is neither such a good doctor nor a doctor nor a good enough nurse or nurse who can compensate for the embarrassing conditions in which some of our specific citizens live before their last days. I ask my authority to make every effort so that the conditions of the geriatric ward of the Psychiatric Hospital in Vrapec are immediately changed or that department should be closed. I appeal to the minister of social care, to the health minister to do everything to make this terrible situation at the geriatric ward of the psychiatric hospital in Vrapć change. I'd call this a top-notch report that we've received from the D.A.'s attorney for people with disabilities is simply an excellent educational motivational material that can help us all imagine ourselves above ourselves. But it can certainly serve as a powerful motivational impulse towards such an important goal that we all get as together as possible as possible. Thank you very much. The HNS will accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33805	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go with the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33806	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Blazekovic, this debate in me has not only triggered a political passion for some kind of replica, this brings me to frustration, I don't know how I'm going to deal with this frustration. You said a number of things that this question should be above all questions about the budget, so you said you had to find the means to live in the dignity of our disabled, so you finally said that there are embarrassing conditions for a hygiene node, etc. And you've said that word a few times in disgrace. This debate of yours isn't just about crocodile tears. It's about that embarrassing debate. And you need one time in front of the Croatian public to expose you and the entire ruling furniture both in what and in what sense you are performing and why this is a shameful approach to power. As far as I am aware, I believe that the HNS represented the separation of these elections for the EU parliament from local elections and thus directly spend Croatia 75 million kuna. A colleague of Blažekovic, you and other coalition partners normally insisted that elections be discussed, and then the president called what you told him. With 75 million you can solve all approaches at all intersections in Croatia for our disabled, with 75 million kuna you can solve all traffic lights in Croatia, with 75 million you can solve all sanitary nodes not only in Vrapec but in all hospitals in Croatia. This debate of yours is a shame, it is evidence that you are not taking care of the money of Croatian citizens, but that you are throwing it away in such a degutant way by discussing the elections that could in some way have been three weeks later and giving them 75 million, and you have no money to solve the sanitary knots. This is more than a shame. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33807	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Borsi Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33808	Thank you very much. I would just like to say that I am absolutely remembering the past 15 years, 20 years delighted with the way the HDZ authorities spent it in the last 20 years, which was something amazing compared to us who, according to Mr. Marasovic's speech, are embarrassingly spent. And I wonder what they've been doing all these years if anyone has to warn anyone about this condition in certain psychiatric institutions? What were they doing for as long as 20 years in power? How is that not embarrassing? How can they not be ashamed if such things dare to be replicated in the first place?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33809	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33810	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's my God, how can I be sick in this assembly of so much pathetic and demagogy that we hear and hear here? I'm thinking to myself why we're doing this at all. However, I was pleased by my colleague Blažeković because I mentioned that in Križevci we are working on a single work programme, a single company, an economic project with the Association of Persons with Disabilities where we will hire people with disabilities, and that the HNS holds the Ministry of Economy quite a lot of things in that part of course is under the control of things. Here I expect that on this example we experience something that we will be able to address and that we will succeed in realising this project with certain support from the real help of the current government. And I would also suggest and recommend that you also as one of the main coalition partners to force and force and propose a law where units of local self-government will be in charge and oblige them to make strategies for people with disabilities, that would be the right move, that would be the right job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33811	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33812	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I fully agree with my colleague Blažekovic in the part where you are, I agree with a lot of what you have said but especially about the fact that we should always keep in mind that we have enough money to achieve the specific projects that the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights of Persons with Disabilities is also talking about. But my opinion and experience is that it's absolutely not the most important thing. You spoke to us politicians and to us MPs but of course to politicians in the government as well as to local ones. Since we are talking here and talking about the fundamental human rights of every human, every individual about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the exercise of human rights, then I would say that it is much more important that every politician in respect of human rights, respect for the rights of another, and that we cannot expect from politicians who systematically violate the human rights of others, who humiliate, insult, who demean others, who cannot expect to respect the rights of the Convention or constitutional rights to protect persons with disabilities. So we're talking about fundamental human rights here. They are not in a way specific to people with disabilities, but politicians I repeat violate other people's human rights often, unfortunately, can't expect to have any sensitivity, but no special mercy to people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33813	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33814	Thank you very much. I'm glad you agree with most of my debate. Through this debate, the intensity was that in the HNS of Liberal Democrats we do not feel that we should drop the concentration of all of us together, and we are the ones, politicians who can really contribute and help, that our concentration must not fall in daily work, help and improve the living conditions of disabled persons in Croatia, especially because Croatian society has shown not once the great sensitivity for those who need it most, who, in many actions, have proved that they have this sensitivity. Our obligation as a politician is to develop this sensitivity even more, to be even more sensitive and to give people with disabilities absolutely as much as possible in the given circumstances, but never forgetting our obligation that people with disabilities are the weakest part of our society and as good as they are, the best of all, it's still the limit where... we can say that the whole society is healthy and positive in all social segments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33815	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDSSB club and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33816	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, respected MPs and MPs. Well, it is also an honor in some way and I feel it as a privilege to find myself actually in the Croatian Parliament to discuss or discuss a subject such as a question of a person with disabilities, not just a question of a person with disabilities but a general question of a person. We rarely actually meet with a subject that concerns a person, most often encounters various topics that do not concern people, but only indirectly affect them while this is actually, and especially the moment of today. Yesterday, all day long, from morning to evening, we were exhausted for me by two frustrating points of the agenda, one of the Nanny Act that I personally experienced as truly unnecessary and unnecessarily unnecessary, and after that we had long exhausted ourselves around the Minimum Salary Act and about whether it was enough for that salary to be 2800 or 2900 kuna gross, and it was humiliating that 2800, or 3000 kuna, or not enough for normal human life, and I actually felt kind of bad and uncomfortable because my gross salary was seven times higher, and I need to raise my voice and hand whether someone had enough minimum gross salary of 2800, 2900 or 3000 kuna. As much as it is, it will be insufficient because with 2300 or 2400 kuna net in this country you can't live a man's life today. And the responsibility that a man encounters in such situations is not responsible, but you are, in fact, co-responsible in some way, at least with me, and you have created a certain frustration and discomfort that I can't really do anymore, and I have to accept that fact there's a society in which I live. But here in the evening, if nothing else, then one good news came in the evening, we got a new Pope Francis I, indeed one great news, we got a great man at the head of our Catholic church, a good, positive event. And now I come here somehow in the spirit of that feeling today at this debate, to this valuable debate, to this debate that actually moves us as people, not only when it comes to the question of relationships with people with disabilities, but generally when it comes to our relationship with man as a man, regardless of whether he was disabled or not, to man as a person created in God's image and opportunity. The Ombudsman spoke a lot about the concept of the convention, the concept of reasonable adaptation, so reasonable adaptation to people with disabilities compared to the possibility of both state and local administration units, but also of sensitifying the need to make it more accessible, to make everything more accessible to those persons. And that's where I actually totally agree, which I actually remember in '79. When I moved into a building, that building had a ramp that was so vertical that even the healthiest children couldn't make it, let alone someone could make it in a wheelchair. We, as a society, have changed our attitude quite a bit, and we have changed our standards and some of our social sensitivity, and we have been here as a society since the Croatian state changed quite a bit, and we have indeed, we are much more sensitive to the question of people with disabilities. I think it's a general tendency. On the other hand, it's not just a matter of sensitivity, it's a matter of awareness that some things have to change. The Croatian people were and remained broadly and compassionate and ready to help, and that is what we are in daily life and through countless humanitarian actions, but through us people's relationship with people is visible. However, some legal and social adjustments may not have been sufficiently rooted in awareness of the need to make some legal and social adjustments simply. And I think that even such debates and such declarations, of course this UN declaration that we are now discussing is one of the countless UN declarations that these countries as Croatia accept, the largest ones generally do not accept, and such as Croatia accept, small countries that want to do something. Because there are a lot of UN declarations and decisions that big states unfortunately and conventions that big countries don't accept, we do what we can, and the big ones go their own way. But here we are building our Croatian society, not being built by anyone outside of us, so of course we must and should do whatever we can. One of the problems I would also mention, which occurred, was the question of assistants for children with special needs, regardless of which I think some have complained about, there today let's say let's say a politically correct dictionary or less correct. But I don't think we should get caught up in the terminology of someone saying a word. However, the problem of these school assistants is quite pronounced because these children need special assistants in schools, and unfortunately this is well left to finance these cities, municipalities and counties. In the first row, many of them don't have money, they simply shut down your programs and part of those children, I'm talking about Požega-Slavon County today has no assistants and can't actually attend school because the county has no money. And I also asked a representative question, but there was no interest or answer to actually find them, to find certain funds. Some assistants would also work for those 1600 kunas or just to get paid at least a job internship, but that's what's going on in our country. We also have something to talk about. It's a number from the so-called. 450,000 persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, so which we as the Republic of Croatia recognize. And there's actually a misunderstanding there, too, because various interests at various times allowed different groups to accept and gain disability or disability status, or that was the way to achieve some kind of pension rights and the like. I still say there are no 10% of people with disabilities in Croatia. But on the other hand, our association of our weak-sighted and blind persons complains that they have practically the smallest amount of compensation in the region, let alone in Europe. So what I'm saying is that in some way we're dispersing rights, and on the other hand, we're not focused enough on those people who really need help, both the states and the local communities. And that optics should actually be changed. So it really detects those groups and those people and those categories that really have a problem and to these people really also direct both the resources and the material and social and these people aimly to provide opportunities, and not on the other hand to expand the circle actually beyond any rational measure and then to lose actually focus on the real problems. Finally, the HDSSB club will support this special prosecutor's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33817	Thank you, Your Honor. The replicas have been reported, so we'll do it in a row. The first replica and respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33818	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry I talked to you. Dear colleague, they've just been listening to your debate by some of the disabled, and that's exactly why I've been talking to you for a little while and I'm giving you criticism. It's not exactly an esteemed colleague that no matter what terminology we use here, the way we talk to each other. Excuse me, what are your special needs, colleague? Can you say that or do you exclusively think that only special needs apply to people with disabilities? That's not true. I think you have the same special needs. And imagine the terminology adopted by the Sheraton Declaration was also changed in our Croatian Constitution. So what right? Then we could act so indolently and say it doesn't matter at all, so let's just say it's the same as if we call ourselves what we think, you know, me, me, you, I put you in a group of some or personal so I say, well, it doesn't matter. It's important that you don't beat me. What you're gonna call me doesn't matter. It's been so long!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33819	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33820	Yes, well-respected MPs, unfortunately, I can't help you. In your discussions, you systematically show a certain narrowness that is unfortunately to you, you simply do not accept any width, but you like to channel it somewhere in certain streams. You're probably the ones who called each of them mates by the '90s, and after the '90s every gentleman, and that's how the law prescribed it and there's no deviation from it. Well, I think society can be open enough to call someone buddy today, and that someone called before the '90s, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33821	I keep my mouth shut. Next replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33822	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's not really a replica, but it's an effort to help this debate, and since there's no correcting the incorrect quote, then I'm using the replica. In fact, the colleague mentioned earlier that this percentage, which means 10%, has been problematicd in terms of whether there are 10% in Croatia persons with disabilities. That's not an assessment of Croatian, that's what I mean. This is not an assessment of any Croatian government or parliament or any other politician. It's an assessment of the World Health Organization. So this is a well-known fact that in general the world 10% of the total population are persons with disabilities, so of course 10% in Croatia. That's an assessment. This information is certainly correct, and what is equally certain is that we have witnessed that during the Homeland War we have become particularly sensitive to people with disabilities and to the attitude of society towards them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33823	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33824	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is a colleague who performed very emotionally in this debate and given this emotion and sensitivity I believe that in Osijek-Baranja County there are very many units of local self-government that have adopted a strategy for people with disabilities, so I think it would be just as good to know here that we too may be going to the occasion, that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33825	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33826	Well, yeah, I also didn't think this was just the end of the line but I don't live in the area of Osijek-Baranja County and I don't really know, but if you need any help with that, I'll definitely be your contact so you'll get the help and information you need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33827	Thank you very much. Now I owe you one notice. Namely, the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor said there is no business possibility of correcting the incorrect allegations. And in her own act, she denied it. So through the replica, she denied that there was no correcting the incorrect quote. So there's a correction to an incorrect quote just through a form of replication. Secondly, counterpart Drazen Djurovic said he was frustrated because he can't do anything, and I think he should explain why he can't do anything because no draft law has proposed any measure to change the situation for persons with disabilities in Croatian society. So much for that, just for the public. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and Honored Representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33828	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the Ombudsman for disabled persons with assistants, parliamentary representatives and MPs. I'm glad to be able to take part in the debate on this law and the proposals we heard from the D.A.'s attorney. I often listen to a song on radio stations, portals "Where is the missing person", and I think that as an introduction to this debate, it's important to say, where a man is missing or where there is no concern for man regardless of disability, it only strengthens the care for man, but mostly we live in a civilization where the sense of a positive relationship towards man is lost and when it looks at disability is not only physical but also spiritual disability, and there are plenty of people here too, then we need to talk more widely about disability and try to humanize our human relationships. The loss seems to me one measure of man due to modern communication technologies that a man is increasingly less present in his home and within himself, alienated from himself and alienated from another, and then that old Latin saying of your salt woes to the one who is alone. And those who are alone are also disabled because they have no help and understanding on the other hand. I am in my public appearances and even in several books that I have published under the title – Man above all. I was attacked that man above all is not a Christian syntagma because God is above all. I have not changed the syntagma, but I remain with it today, and it is an integral part of my Christian order that man is, above all, the purpose of Christian sending and Christian witnessing. To stand up for the dignity and fundamental human rights of every man. Clearly, the disabled in this sense, any categories have an advantage in that concern for a man by what is written in the New Testament – what you have done to one of the smallest, you have done to me. And I will not be valued by the Masses I have spoken, the confessions I have heard, but I will be valued by the New Testament according to what I have done or have not done according to the right man. So in this sense, I promote a spirituality that is common to all of us, not religion and ritual that can be a form without content. And I'm joining, and hopefully the Croatian Parliament, that we've got a new Pope to measure sensitivity for the most needed. If that sensitivity for the most needed will come and how it will come to light, I'd like it to come. But if, as a cardinal and archbishop in Argentina, he washed the feet of HIV and kissed their feet and did not drive to his place of work by car but by public traffic, that he cooks himself and prepares himself, then it is obvious that we have got a man according to man and hope that he will not let us down in his attitudes only the question is whether the structure, the ossuary structure of the church, is imposed with his views. So, what we did to one of the smallest, I would raise to that level today's debate and these are the disabled of any kind. You did this not for the sake of fulfilling the law you did because you are believers and because you are spiritual people. It's a higher level of thinking and evaluation. I distinguish the spirituality that is common and the worldly horizons that are mutually exclusive but not exclusive. If I stand for the rights of those who have been disproved or "issued" by my loved ones, I stand by the principle of the Gospel which you have done to one of the smallest, you have done to me. Therefore, clearly as an advocate, an independent advocate, we will support this law and note what has already been said not only to support it declared but to do good to those on any side with disabilities, to do good to them if we are believers in the motive of faith, if we are not believers, but the worldly mirror is different, agnostics or atheists doing good to the one who needs it, and thus we have fulfilled the whole law and the prophets said Jesus. That's why I think we're all here in the Parliament sharing ourselves with human people or those who are ideologically burdened and that wouldn't want to understand this debate and this contribution to this debate. Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33829	Dear Representative, I appreciate your good intentions, good faith absolutely, and I respect the believers of all confesions, religiousism and spirituality, but this was really just a report by the staff, this counselor for people with disabilities. Well, it's not bad that we've heard your exposure, but we'll be back on the subject hopefully through the replicas. Replications are in turn and the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33830	Your Honor, Mr. President. I feel hurt, forward, by Mr. Grubisic's speech because he said there's a lot of us here, a fellow of us with spiritual disabilities, with a spiritual disability in this hall. It is not the first time that as a politician and as a man of public work I have had insults from Mr Grubisic in the sense that politicians are these and they will not tell you what kind of adjectives and nouns he used there, but here I am in the same room directly, so I have not responded before to these insults, but I respond to the insult because I feel personally offended and ask Mr Grubisic to apologize to me. Mr. Grubisic, I don't know if I'm a spiritually disabled person or disabled person, but I certainly know and I don't know if I'm morally vertical as you're being titled, but I certainly know that I haven't verticalized double morals. And what you said at the end, I won't even comment, but because it would lead us too far. I think you give yourself too much rights and freedom in hurting other people and other people's dignity exactly the opposite of what you pleaded for a pay phone in front of the entire Croatian public. You say one thing at a pay phone, and at the same time in that speech, you insult me. I don't know if the rest of you felt hurt, if you didn't say anything, and Mr. President and you shut up, but I won't. I'm looking for an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33831	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33832	I can't answer a line like this because there's no help. And that's my answer and I didn't want to offend anyone, but with some people there's a limit as far as you can and above which you can't. That's my attitude, if you're going to take offense to this, you're right, but I didn't mean to offend anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33833	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33834	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your kind sermon, Mr. Grubisic, but that's not why I answered. I answered for a start when you said that you often listen to a song where a man is missing. And I'm going to say that I disagree with you because in the past time that song was more necessary than it is now because still with everything that's going on and what needs to be fixed and done, but that man appears, he's still here today. In Croatia, today people with disabilities definitely have a much different status than they had 20 years ago. Yet our society behaves differently, yet here we are today discussing this report, and I have to say this, neither have I, and I've been looking for this man, and I realized that we can find this man very easily. When the members of my association came to me with a proposal to sit in a wheelchair and drive around the Cross and see where all the obstacles are, then I realized how many people with disabilities in the wheelchair have obstacles. When they tied my eyes and gave me a stick, when I tried to walk, then I realized how many people with disabilities that are blind have obstacles. That's what we have to try. This is what we need to give to those of us who think we are healthy, to try and then we will make more normal and quality decisions very easily, and we will not consider people with disabilities to be second-class citizens, nor will we be ashamed of them. And now we have achieved that we should not be ashamed, and now we have achieved that we respect them, that we appreciate them, that we consider them equal and even. That's the point of things. That's why this song where the man is missing, he's here, he's in Croatia just needs more care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33835	And a reply to the replica, Honored Representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33836	Where a man is missing, I said it was a song, but I would ask you, Mr. Hrg, aren't the disabled 370 thousand unemployed, 100 thousand who work don't get paid, are they the same as the disabled, according to which Croatia's debt amounts to 50 billion euros, whether it's the disability of the whole country, or whether it's about making propaganda about how we have a man in the first place and his problems. I think we're only at the beginning of solving these problems correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33837	Your Honor, I appreciate your feelings and your concern for the unemployed but I'd never call them disabled, they're looking for a job, they're asking to prove themselves, and it's our obligation to enable them. And now a new replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33838	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I felt invited to these words by Don Grubisic about each of us looking at what we have done as humans, what each of us has done as a human and thus creating a picture of ourselves. I agree with that. So I'm going to say exactly about the topic we're talking about that I've had the honor of being Deputy Prime Minister and as Secretary of State to sign the New York Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities We're talking about, the biggest human rights document in this century. I also suggested that I set up an office for people with disabilities, that I took part in the selection of Mrs. Slonjšak as attorney for persons with disabilities despite the prejudices of many in view of her disability and we see that she has indeed become a great defender. As Minister, I've initiated the Institute of Personal Assistants for the Worst Disabilities. It is a great project, a project of adaptation that we have called accessible Croatia so adjustments from the city and everything else for people with disabilities, but also a project for disabled people, especially a hundred percent of the Homeland War. So I think I fit in somehow in this picture, but as you can see, sometimes in political life, it doesn't help. But that's how it's supposed to work. It's how it's supposed to work. I agree with you. And just another little impression about something that stretches, what I felt in your speech, about people with disabilities being weak. I don't think disabled people, or disabled people, are in any way weak people, but they should be looked at completely differently. They are strong people and our role is only one, to allow them to participate equally in all segments of life, from political to sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33839	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33840	People with disabilities can have and have an advantage over supposedly healthy people or who think they're healthy because I'm going to call myself again but it's not a sermon when I'm crucified on the cross I'm going to be the strongest. It's a Christian announcement. So being crucified with disability doesn't make a man weaker by himself than causing him to be even stronger and never to be cloned. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33841	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33842	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I won't think, because we all have our own mental set and our way of thinking in the High House. But I noticed one of your thoughts about the definition of disability itself. And here it's important to say that people with disabilities except that they have physical damage and others, that they have certain potentials and that we are all here to help activate these potentials, and in that sense I agree that every level of what you said is necessary, but of course we are considering and politically, so at all levels. Of the local self-government units that we each do in our midst. Here we have examples from various environments, so I can also welcome the Associations and Our small corner of the area and Podravska Sun and Association of persons with disabilities of Koprivnica-križevci County. But the greatest responsibility is to the rulers, to the rulers who must ensure conditions in that part but not in the way of appeal as we have heard today. It's the way you do it because a lot of words without action are like bowls without food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33843	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33844	I agree with the work of your debate that only works, criteria, truths of humanism are only works and spirituality only works. We'll be judged for our actions. I'm glad to hear you're up for local support for people with disabilities, but I'm afraid, and I'll be sorry if this remains just declarative support. You have to do what you can. Croatia is not in a situation unfortunately now to address positively all of these needs as many as 50,000 disabled persons but can be moved and we are obliged to do so primarily with our own behavior every day in its midst.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33845	Thank you, Your Honor. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now the turn of the SDP club of Croatia and the respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33846	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Attorney-General with his associates. At first, I'd like to commend and welcome the D.A.'s attorney and this particular report. In fact, I commend the use of this special report institute because it is evident that a summary and very transparent report and in this way it is possible in a much better way to convey your message even visually very attractively, and to point out the current problems facing people with disabilities. It is crucial that the message comes to us as soon as possible from the representatives, MPs, government and Croatian public, for this should also be used in these ways, or this particular report that you have used. I will also remind myself that Croatia was among the first parties to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I stress that we ratified the Convention in 2007, and the eighth came into force. This subject of people with disabilities must never be secondary because it is a question of human rights, and it is also a question of a very large number of our citizens. I have over 500 thousand people with disabilities who use certain rights in the system. Clearly, then, this theme must be of paramount importance to all of us. The most important twist made in the Convention is the deviation from the medical model towards the social model and most important according to the human rights model. The report makes clear the question of persons with disabilities are human rights issues, not treatment and social assistance issues. It is precisely the transition from the medical model that marks the interruption of relations with disabled persons, as recipients of the mercy left to others at the disposition to decide their fate. This view and model are completely outdated and should be emphasized that persons with disabilities are essentially rightholders, which means that not only should you work on providing quality and timely services to them, but more should be devoted to supporting, respecting and understanding their diversity but as a wealth of our society. Of course, we should always think of the need to pave the way for every attempt to stigmatize or marginalize people with disabilities, and we must always keep that in mind in local self - administration. We all understand that life cards are constantly shared. We can never know what cards we're going to get and whether we're always going to have a successful game. What makes us think that? We never know which natural goods we will get because each of us can easily become at any time in our lives persons with disabilities. So we should certainly try to make the system and social relations within Croatia the fairest and most vulnerable to the current social, economic and other difficulties they experience. The Ombudsman states in this report clear architectural accessibility, communication accessibility as important moments for people with disabilities, and they really are. Access to institutions, street movements, public city transport, needs to be facilitated by communication with the environment, all of these are important things to make people with disabilities equal members of society and to be able to achieve as much quality of life as any other member of the community that is not. I can safely say that the third moment of social impediment and Stigmatisation is highly chosen for us as a society that wants and should be inclusive and willing to accept and tolerate differences. In particular, people with intellectual difficulties and persons with mental or psychosocial difficulties most faced with these misunderstandings should be stressed here. It is necessary to regulate their status more urgently within the legislation in order to enable them to live as high as possible. I view people with disabilities as equal participants in our society, as citizens equal to all of us in the opportunities and opportunities that we need to provide, but also work to ensure that we no longer have to ensure them, but that they are completely self-evident and normal phenomena within our society. It sometimes seems to us to be a distant goal, now it may seem unattainable but it must be our priority all of us must begin to perceive it as easily achieved only if we decide to do something about it. That's why I am stressing and quoting once again from the Invalidity report is not in person, disability creates society, disability is part of a human diversity that needs to be respected, not a handicap that needs to be cured. The individual needs to recognize his special abilities and accept him, and society is what needs to be adapted to this human diversity as well." I think we all have experience whether we're personal or we've heard some experience with people with disabilities. I can say that I lived, or I grew up with a beautiful person with disabilities, my dodo, who was a man without a hand. That disabled man gave me a lot, a lot of human values, and I gave it to him as a child. I've been interacting, and I think I've got a fortune from a person like that. One more thing about the study of public policy implementation towards people with disabilities from the Faculty of Political Sciences, Faculty of Law and Education. They have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to work on the development of these understandings and the transition to human rights models at the level of local authorities where people with disabilities still face great difficulties and misunderstandings, which is actually visible from these reports, with all those obstacles that I mentioned earlier. So strengthening the role of local authorities is very important, strengthening the role of civil society as well, and this research has proved necessary to continue to work on awareness and transition from medical model to human rights model, especially at the level of individuals, persons with disabilities themselves, as well as experts and other officials, of course the whole of society. Perhaps the most important thing that emphasizes this research is the fact that it is necessary to listen to people with disabilities. They are, as it is pointed out, experienced experts who know best what difficulties they face and which parts of the system do not function in the best way possible. They pass these experiences and can be the best public policy makers as the most interested stakeholders in this public policy. We mentioned local self-government. I know that everything depends on the budgets, but it also depends on the efforts, that is, our relationship with people with disabilities. I will mention the city of Dubrovnik where we started the procedure, we have provided money in the budget for a special vehicle for the transport of disabled persons who will serve for those who need it to take them to work, to take them to the theater, to take them to the doctor. I must also point out that we support our strategy, the strategy for people with disabilities and that we act on it. This year we increased the amounts, or from the budget precisely for people with disabilities, just for such associations. We allocate over a million kuna co-financing, it actually refers to co-financing of associations, and also to co-financing of precisely the activities of this Strategy that we have brought for people with disabilities. Finally, I would like to point out that there may be a need to think about setting up a coordinating body that would monitor the implementation of a policy towards people with disabilities. Once again, the SDP club accepts this report and thanks again to the Ombudsman for his excellent report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33847	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33848	Thank you. A greeting to the lawyer, but also to all disabled persons in Croatia who know that Croatia is the signator of all the most important international documents on the rights of persons with disabilities and whose rights are regulated through almost 300 regulations and by these regulations, under these signed contracts, conventions of the lives of persons with disabilities and persons with disabilities in Croatia is impeccable, ideal, but reality is different. And there is no need to forget the fact either, here I have been representing myself since 2008 giving amendments to the state budget relating to the amount of blinding allowances since 2008. Neither the HDZ nor your colleagues accepted the amendment, and Croatia is at the beginning of European countries. Even Albania, Serbia, BiH, Slovenia are ahead. In Slovenia it is 258 euros, in Bosnia 202 in Serbia 175, in Albania 100 and in Croatia only 50 euros. And we are talking about it, and someone mentioned where the man went and that we should set ourselves up according to our own affinities, according to the possibilities of local self-government, according to which I do not know what, and local self-government in the Republic of Croatia can be divided just like Croatia into rich Croatia and extremely poor Croatia. And all local self-government units have no equal options, no matter who the leader is. I also got a van in a humanitarian campaign to transport children with special needs, funded food for a guide dog, etc., etc., but let's wake up a bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33849	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33850	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Vinkovic, here's a colleague of mine from the bench listening to club representatives' reports said here today we're going to hear a lot of empathy and the question is what's going to be in reality. And that's exactly what he said. The question is, will all those obstacles that are present remain? But I'd say it's all up to us, people. We're wondering where the man went? Let's look for him. Let's start with ourselves. Everything depends on it from local authorities to state. Let each one of you do, one little pebble, and we'll do well for people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33851	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33852	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a little replication for my colleague from another club so it won't be what you are, but we can get her inside the club. But in any case, I agree with you, colleague Bonačić, in the part where you said this special report should encourage us representatives to think, but of course also to act, so on persons with disabilities. But, of course, those on the other side of Mark's square should also be encouraged, because the problems of children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities are great. You spoke in that section of the field of action that we witness every year in the accessibility reports. And in that part, some progress can be seen. But certainly a special place deserves that health issue. I apologize here that I will repeat the centre of Stančić which here goes into a deinstitutionalisation project where the people of this centre have significant needs of health, meaning from the use of respirators, aspirators, catheterisation and all other health procedures and certainly such a quick way of deinstitutionalisation can lead to additional difficulties. And I personally referred a question to the Attorney General on the board. She said yes, but not in a way to deny any rights so far. Here's how we need to think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33853	Thank you, too. Replica response, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33854	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So fellow Milinkovic, that I have commended the instrument, i.e. the institute of a special report, because in one way, it more summed up the more visually acceptable awareness of the problem that it is. That's right. I think that when you said you should actually ask a lot of them over from Mark's square. But I think they're doing well and they did well. And I return to that, that each of us must do its part to make good for persons with disabilities and from you as head of local self-government and as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, of course both ministers and representatives of the Government each has a share. We can't ask someone else, we can't switch balls to others, but we should all work together just to improve the status of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33855	Thank you very much. One notice. In 10.45 minutes, it is time to report a 10-minute debate in accordance with Article 207 paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It's HSU's turn and Honorable Vishny Fortuna's representative. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33856	The Honorable President, the esteemed Ombudsman for disabled persons, with his associates. First of all, I would like to commend really this special prosecutor's report on persons with disabilities, and it is actually in order to raise awareness of the application of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In particular, I would like to point out that actually the Ombudsman is aware that, in fact, in this way, this report has now presented itself to us aware that actually raising the level of consciousness is extremely important and is never really enough to encourage it. I'd invite here and our media that are certainly much, much better than they were before. But here I dare say that it is not enough yet to bring this level of consciousness to the level that would be needed, and that would mean equalising all citizens in the Republic of Croatia that there is no one else with special needs because there are special needs only in each of us. We all have them. So, compared to this particular report now, I would say that according to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, it has been in place for almost 5 years and it has not been the impression that there is a satisfactory level of awareness that it is a binding international document that the Republic of Croatia requires that its entire legislation be aligned with the provisions and principles of the Convention. The most significant twist that the Convention introduces is in fact what is extremely important is the deviation from the medical model of disability and the adoption of the social model and human rights model. We should not agree to any justifications that have not yet led to a comprehensive analysis of the compliance of existing laws with the Convention at all levels. The question of persons with disabilities is human rights issues, not treatment or social assistance issues. Despite certain positive shifts through the changes in some laws as well as the conduct of certain state bodies and institutions that reflect the commitment to respect human rights and true equality still in many areas and levels prevailed views that disability is equally incompetence and that disability is a personal problem of an individual, not the result of the social community's failure to involve all persons and accept differences between them. Persons with disabilities are rightholders and must be accepted as equal partners and associates, as active subjects of personal development. They have the right to education that corresponds to their ability, the right to employment that will ensure their own existence, the right to participate in public political life, the right to protection and full human dignity. Let us not forget that disability is responsible for obstacles that make it impossible for a person to participate in the lives of the community on the same basis with all other persons. Therefore, there is a great responsibility in the country to remove obstacles, and this responsibility must be seen in quite certain political decisions. The Special Report stresses the Convention established the social model of disability relations confirms in fact who people with disabilities are and points to our obligation to provide them with different types of support for inclusion and proportionate adaptation. It further highlights the importance of empowering people with disabilities as assumptions of their independence that contributes to social and economic viability for the whole of our society. Getting to know the principles of the provisions, conventions for parliamentary representatives as legislators has meaning in the creation of public policies and are of paramount importance for the affirmation of those considerations that are based on human rights whenever laws and other regulations are passed. I believe that this report and the Manual for Parliamentary Representatives from exclusion to equality of the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities will provide us with concrete guidelines that will contribute to the effective implementation of the Convention in Croatian society. I also expect it to encourage the assessment of individual implications for the position and rights of 520 thousand 488 persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia when adopting each law. I'd like to point out here that when I say state responsibility, that responsibility lies on every local administration and self-government. Here let me point out from the level of the City of Zagreb that the City of Zagreb has one partner relationship, one good co-operation with the Attorney's Office, with associations of persons with disabilities because civil society is what the quality of every city's work is also measured on, and that's something I think is normal, so it should be. I don't want to point out anything special here, but what we can do at the city level and at the level of every local administration and self-government has to do it really has to be done in order to say, as far as the funds are concerned, that the funds are extremely important, without the resources we can do nothing, but believe that it's very important and how these funds are allocated. It can be deployed to other projects and programmes, and they do not have to, for example, deploy into this project programme which Zagreb considers extremely important, which are projects and programmes relating to persons with disabilities. So I'd like to highlight a few things that I consider important. I don't want to be any longer, but I want to say that the City of Zagreb has developed a third strategy for people with disabilities based on the National Strategy. Every year we submit a report to the Assembly in which they participate, and the report also includes persons with disabilities in the Assembly where they have and can and must, I think and always say what is not good, what we should do in order for the next report to be able to do so and what we did not do until the next report. Furthermore, it is extremely important that we have a committee at the city level for people with disabilities who are involved precisely in people with disabilities and all the decisions we make, we make really together on what has been done and on what we should do. I will point out that persons with disabilities in Zagreb have free transportation, that they have special vans for children with developmental difficulties, three institutions that are founded and that are exclusively founded and institutions of the City of Zagreb that is our "Silver" for the education of dogs guide institutions, the institution "Little House" for children with multiple damages and institution URIHO where Zagreb co-finances persons with disabilities working in that institution because otherwise they could not really survive as themselves. This isn't thank you, these are facts and I'm sure we haven't done enough and we still have a lot of work to do. But I would like to stress that the value and quality of life in each city is measured by the availability of all services and content available to all citizens, especially the most sensitive groups in each city. And I would also like to say that since 2007 the City of Zagreb has registered its projects on a European Mobility Week project and every year we were in the first ten cities of 2500 cities. In this year, the European Commission for Environmental Protection in Brussels last week awarded the City of Zagreb the 1st prize compared to 2500 cities. The city of Zagreb did not do it alone, the City of Zagreb did it with its partners, with its associations, persons with disabilities and all other citizens who shared with us so that the City of Zagreb would be worthy of man. It's also confirmed on this occasion, the first prize we're proud of, but that doesn't mean we've done everything and that we've ever done all the consciousness must be the one that always encourages us to need better, more and even all the people and there's no difference. There are differences only in our heads, and that's what I want us all to know and understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33857	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33858	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleagues fortuna, I noticed your claim where you said that the question of the right person with disabilities is fundamental human rights, not the issue of treatment or social assistance. If I was wrong about something, I apologize, but I want to say the following is very important and important, this is what the Attorney General warns us about every year in his reports. From the problem of rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, from orthopaedic aids, from health care in the house and from various others, hence the availability of healthcare for people with disabilities. Of course, therefore, additional efforts must always be made there. And secondly, as far as social status is concerned, and that's what you've been thinking about. Of course, economic hardships further worsen the status of people with disabilities. Well you can't convince me that increased VAT, energy prices, heating, etc. that it adds no additional burden to the condition of persons with disabilities, certainly. And if we go from the very definition of the health of a global health organization that says that health is a complete mental, physical and social well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33859	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Vishny Fortuna's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33860	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you've listened well to me. It's nice to meet you, but what I was saying was from the convention. What the convention prescribed was words, not words, but my words in the convention. And what you said to the treatment, yes exactly, the treatment is necessary to all of us. Of course, the treatment for people with disabilities is that they need a lot more extra, so I say helping depends on the degree of disability. And that's true, but that's no reason to share them by that. We can't share them in anything, that's what I want to point out here, not for social assistance, not for health insurance, treatment, etc. What's most important is to strengthen them in every area. And what I was saying about the convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33861	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33862	Dear colleagues, since you have been elected to the fourth constituency I expected you to talk about the possibilities of Slavonian cities, the relative cities of that fourth constituency and I think you should know that this fiscal possibility of these cities, no matter how hard the local self-government leaders tried, had, above all, awareness of the needs of disabled persons, simply all the needs of those infrastructures cannot be made. Not to mention state institutions that are in these local self-governments that practically do not even have the possibility of entering disabled persons into state institutions. On the other hand, you mention the City of Zagreb, is the City of Đakovo is a city, as is the City of Zagreb. The mayor is here Bandić, there is Vinkovic but there is a difference, not a way of working but a difference in the fiscal possibility of the City of Zagreb which has about 7 billion kuna, the City of Đakovo about 40 million kuna. There is also Dubrovnik already mentioned. So the city of Đakovo has in 4 years as many tourists as they leave to visit those walls, that is, the old part of the town of Dubrovnik. This is the problem of Croatia, Croatia which is divided into poor and rich and additional so-called fiscal decentralisation, among other things, you voted for it, although in Plan 21 decentralisation is the basis of the programme, and the possibility and local self-government to help disabled people is thus prevented. Here's Mr. Craig's book called decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33863	Thank you. We all have books.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33864	I'll show it to you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33865	Thank you. Time's up. The reply to the replica of Vishny Fortuna's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33866	Thank you. Your Honor, I've been elected to the fourth constituency, and I'm actually grateful to everyone who chose me there. My term of office isn't over, and I won't promise anything, I just said my term didn't end, that's the first. As far as the funds are concerned, and that's where I agree with you, and that's what I said if you remember in my presentation. Clearly, funds are very important and clear. But I, as a social worker, have run a lot of projects and programs, worked and spent where no great, really no great means were needed, but good people, people of good faith who can, want and will. And that part that I've emphasized and I'm stressing today I'm not downplaying the importance of the means, but what I'm saying is that, and the development of consciousness and what I think was desperate, I've given an emphasis is actually something that is most important to us that people with disabilities are equal to all other citizens. It's something I've been fighting for really my entire professional life and I'm going to fight on and on and on and believe that we have to be together independent of the means, with the means and no means. And as for the funds, I agree with them, but you also have to agree with me that these same funds can be used for other purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33867	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33868	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Fortuna here you have said nicely as an employee, head of the city office, which all has the City of Zagreb and we are all proud that the City of Zagreb has it. It would not be good if the Croatian capital did not have such sensitivity and would not treat people with disabilities. But as a parliamentary representative you are here in another role, so I expect you to help, since within the ruling coalition you are an integral part that we, and our disabled persons in the Križevci, in Djakov, in all cities and municipalities of the Republic of Croatia have at least similar conditions for that. And without systematic resolution at the state level, it won't be possible. And our disabled would wish they didn't have to write daily to enable physical therapy, and our disabled would wish they could come with specialists orthopedics in the Križevci, that they don't have to go around, that they don't have to drive. And we have to buy a car, a van to transport people with disabilities. That's the inequality. And it is good that the debate went this way and it is good that you opened these topics, this issue, because this shows how discriminatory Croatia is for citizens without talking about people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33869	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Vishny Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33870	I would only say that in the first part I agree that Zagreb must have it and must be it, it is quite clear but did not have to win first place of 2500 cities and won it. That still means that even above what he has to do, that's the first thing. And as for the state-level systematic resolution, I still wouldn't dare say he didn't do it or at the state level we still have three years left to do that part, what you said today to confirm that it wasn't true. That it wouldn't be true, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33871	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for ten minutes. It is next to the respected representative Ana Komaraić Devčić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33872	I would like to thank the Honorable President, Attorney General for persons with disabilities with all co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I'll discuss it a little differently than all my colleagues. I'm going to bring in some personal experience in this debate, and I'm going to start the debate with just a sentence from the manual itself. "First of all, people born with disabilities like me often expect very little." So it's a quote from the manual itself. My personal experience is something different. I, as a daughter whose father is 100% disabled, have always expected much from my father. I had the same childhood, I had the same youth, and like all my friends who didn't have people with disabilities. My father is watching my children today, he's raising them, my children are helping him and he's helping them. He's very active in society, he runs an association. So you can, of course it's terribly important to support the family. If you don't have family support, you're probably alone in the world. And it's true that we have a different family, that we're special, that we get maybe a lot more love, a lot more understanding. And today I enjoy watching my children grow up and don't know the difference between being disabled and not being disabled. They don't tell the difference. It's their grandfathers and I'm terribly proud of it. But so you don't think it's always idyllic. So there's a hard time, there's a fight, there's everything there is in all the other families. About the rights of a person with disabilities, I say declaratively, we're talking about when we put in front of us a lawyer's report whether he's regular or he's special. As a person who lives my whole life with a disabled person, I will give myself the right to perhaps be more critical of both the former government and the current government and of all of us sitting here. I believe the Republic of Croatia has good laws but they are not implemented or fully implemented. And maybe I'll mention some of the problems that people with disabilities face, as well as all of us who live with them. The lawyer and many colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned accessibility today. I just want to remind all of us here that accessibility was supposed to be over in 2007. We're in 2013. I responsibly argue that the public institutions of this country as well as the units of local self-government and at the level of the state itself are not fully adapted to persons with disabilities. That you are happy if you are born in a big city that has educational institutions adapted to children with difficulties in developing people with disabilities where a child can go to kindergarten, elementary school, high school and college and possibly find a job. That our education system still uses expressions that have long since been abandoned, disabled, developmental difficulties and that it is not really an appropriate system and that no one is involved. Medical institutions are mentioned. I claim that the health care facilities of our hospital are not adapted to disabled persons. It's an honor to those hospitals that are newly built or reorganized, but most hospitals don't have bathrooms for people with disabilities. A person with disabilities when he enters the hospital has nowhere to go and can't take a shower. Although we do have an incentive for employment, I don't think it applies. A good thing is a personal assistant and it should really be supported because it is a very important person in a person's life with disabilities. I can't help but mention smart cards, a very good idea that didn't actually live well. If you don't know what a smart card is, it was the idea that people with disabilities have free toll but they have to buy a car. Smart card isn't tied to a person but is tied to a car which I find inadmissible because, why don't I take my father in my own car and drive somewhere or my neighbor because I'm not in a position right now. No, he has to have his own car to which the card is attached, he has to be in the car which is understandable but why he can't be in a car that's not his property. I want to mention hotels and beaches. I don't know how many of us ever think about where our disabled people on the Adriatic can bathe with a thousand islands. 10 salaries for people with disabilities and not all adjusted entirely. And don't get me wrong, the Croatian state has more dog beaches than for people with disabilities. I ask that no one feel offended but I have the right to say so. What I think needs to be changed, and I believe the D.A. will agree with me, too, I think we should introduce vouchers, I.D. cards for people with disabilities depending on the degree of disability. Why am I saying that? Because we're all different and we all have different needs, and every month we don't have the same need, so people with disabilities get a certain amount of money that that month will spend depending on the need it has, and not to be forced to buy three packages of diapers every month, two packages of gauze, six packages of something, and that month it doesn't have a need for a diaper package, if that can happen. So we need to adapt the system to the people. We can't talk in general, we're different. We wake up in the morning and we don't all have the same needs, so people with disabilities don't have the same need regardless of their degree, they're different needs. And what I finally want to ask you colleagues, which is what I asked for, and then when I spoke on behalf of the club on the D.A.'s report for people with disabilities. I really appeal to all of us sitting here, not to talk about people with disabilities from the report to the report that we really talk about them and the adoption of all the regulations in this House of Commons. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33873	Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33874	Well, I agree with you distinguished colleagues that we don't need to talk about people with disabilities with people with special needs report to report. Maybe we can talk when the state budget is adopted. Well, when someone sets up an amendment, for example. I ask you to raise your hand for that amendment, not to stick to party disciplines as the HDZ did, when Mrs. Jadranka Kosor in New York signed certain agreements, and when such an amendment comes, then the hand stays down. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33875	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33876	My dear colleague, I really don't want to politicize this subject, and I think we should all look at people with disabilities together, and that's another topic that I'm terribly fond of. There is no difference between male and female, they fight for the same goal and the same rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33877	We're continuing the debate. It's time for my colleague, Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33878	Thank you, Vice President. Advocacy, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In my view, the key concepts of this report are certainly active inclusion of persons with disabilities in society. The best example of this but also the basic prerequisite is to involve children with developmental difficulties in a regular education system. Modern society, society is a change in all areas and work, as well as in the field of education and education of children with developmental difficulties. Everything but everything that once seemed right to us today is being considered and questioned. First of all, these changes are felt by the very person with developmental difficulties. If they have the option of selecting different education and education programmes, whether they can decide on a lifestyle on their own, whether they have more technical and orthopedic aids to facilitate inclusion in a wider social environment. All of this is the foundation of the social integration of such individuals into a whole new form of life. The basic human need is the need to interact and communicate with other people. A man's good picture of himself and confidence among other things is a cover of friendship, a sense of personal value and belonging to the group. Without it, man feels lonely and less valuable, and thus the quality of life certainly is poorer. In the process of education and education, children with developmental difficulties need to be given the best possible conditions to achieve social contacts and to develop intellectual skills. Otherwise, you can't talk about real integration. If the conditions of children with developmental difficulties are not ensured despite integration, they will remain isolated. Preventing the latter is the biggest challenge in achieving integration in practice. The history of the inclusion of children with developmental difficulties in primary school and the finding of ways of teaching them implies a short but very dynamic period of only forty years because in 1969 Norway opened its first education law the possibility of entering children with difficulties in regular schools. In Croatia, human definitions of educational and educational integration are beginning to be implemented by the adoption of the Law on Education and Education back in 1980. Each type of difficulty makes it difficult for a child to have relations and to communicate with parents, to growers, teachers and peers, and thus interferes with the child’s ability to develop, learn and communicate coherently. It is important that we can help parents to learn how to avoid difficulties and thus enable a child to learn, communicate, and grow in the best way possible. Everyone, every child is unique in their own kind. For this reason, a new way of observing and treating children with developmental difficulties appeared. To this end, parents and experts need to understand the child’s unique structure. This structure involves not only the child’s biology but also his relationship to the environment and to the people surrounding him. Understanding this structure enables the creation of therapy that is tailored to the child’s individual needs and helps him to climb in his development without leaving out any pillar. Teachers, I underline teachers and ways of teaching children with developmental difficulties are a significant link in that chain. The theory and practice of integration of children with disabilities is somewhat different in the attitudes of teachers, of course, and teachers who are trying to accept changes and new solutions that are rapidly forcing the development of modern human civilization. The change in fundamental attitudes toward disabled people did not happen by chance but was based on the penetration of humanistic views of advanced people in today’s world wherever they live. With such children, they can work professionally and spiritually enriched ones who will understand problems more easily and accept living and learning differently from themselves in view of existing differences in the degree of development of a skill, a sense, or some traits. Therefore, integration is also a new requirement for the education of regular teachers, as well as for their continuous additional education and permanent professional education. Each child is regardless of the degree of damage, or difficulty capable of raising and education. It's up to teachers and teachers to confirm that claim in practice. On this path, raising awareness of the application of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities will help them with a fundamental affirmative social attitude, not only on the Day of Persons with Disabilities, not only on media appearances and reactions to the lack of understanding of the needs of a difficult mobile Denis in the middle of the urban Zagreb, deep in the 21st century, but every day in every situation, in every place, and most of the fellow MPs and fellow representatives in the heads and hearts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33879	Thank you very much. Next colleague in the Martina Banic debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33880	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored Advocates for Persons with Disabilities, colleagues and colleagues. Human rights represent fundamental standards without which humans cannot live in dignity as human beings. They are the foundation of freedom, of justice...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33881	Just a moment, my colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33882	All right, I'm sorry. ... No problem, thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Human rights represent fundamental standards without which humans cannot live in dignity as human beings. They are the foundation of freedom, justice and peace and are universally inalienable and indivisible. According to the General Declaration of Human Rights of 10 December 1948, Article 1 states: all human beings were born free and equal in dignity and rights. That article refers to the main pillars of the system of human rights, freedom, equality and solidarity. Freedoms like freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and freedom of opinion and expression are protected as human rights. Human rights catalogues to be effective and acceptable so far have mainly been established through political agreements and agreements through legal and political development, and have been legally established through the form of declarations, conventions, laws, constitutions and international contracts. These documents represent sources of rights even when they have no special form. The problem of human rights has two closely related elements: application and human rights theory. Human rights of persons with disabilities are of particular importance to the state and community whose responsibility is to take care of those who need it. People with disabilities account for about 10% of the population and in the 21st century are characterized by the fact that they are mostly the unemployed and poorest group in society, and thus are a highly decomposed and socially isolated part of the community. For the target group, public policy is created by three basic models: medical, social and human rights models that differ from one another from understanding the problems and objectives of the policy and by implementing it. When the primary target group includes all those who have no disability, but belong to the social microcentre of disabled persons, their families, friends and colleagues and feel directly the consequences of the existence of disability. The number of members of the primary target group is then significantly higher. For the development and transformation of policy towards people with disabilities, two things are essential, firstly as disability is understood, why it is problematic and how this understanding is changed and secondly, given the change in the problem, the objectives and policies of people with disabilities to be achieved by the state. Since 2000. Croatia has brought in five important documents as part of a policy towards people with disabilities. The situation of persons with disabilities, given the significant proportion of the total population, is directly related to the level of social development and the sensitivity of the community. In this area, the Republic of Croatia accepts the practical and scientific assets of the most developed European countries, in particular in the area of legal legislation and strategic provisions. Among the first countries, we adopted the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as early as June 2007 and the Convention is the first international executive document that significantly improves the position of persons with disabilities by building up modern approaches in the human rights system in action towards persons with disabilities in order to ensure equal opportunities. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities marks a pattern for changing attitudes and access to the issue of disability. Also, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities intends to promote, protect and ensure full and equal respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons with disabilities and promote respect for their native dignity. In addition, the Convention has a clear dimension for social development. In an act of ratification, the Republic of Croatia has assumed the obligation to remove obstacles that make the damage a disability, as well as the obligation to provide support to people with disabilities so that it can realise its potential to the greatest extent. The obstacles resulting from the exclusion of persons with disabilities, i.e. the violation of their human rights, are very often legislation and political decisions, and we Parliamentarians play a key role in promoting and protecting human rights. The Ombudsman's report on persons with disabilities we are discussing today is based on raising awareness of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities for the Marking of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and International Human Rights Day. The Ombudsman’s report states that there is a need for all laws and regulations to be in line with a convention that is legally above the law. According to the report, it is necessary to carry out a comprehensive analysis of the existing law in order to determine to what extent they are in conformity with the Convention, and to ensure their compliance when new rules are adopted. It is also necessary to enable people with disabilities to access information on their rights and information when passing laws in their interest. According to the report, in order to achieve the real exercise of the rights of disabled persons, it is necessary to amend those public policies and laws restricting rights such as laws prohibiting persons with disabilities from entering into marriage, a law allowing them to treat persons with disabilities without their free and informed consent, a law allowing them to be deprived of freedom on the basis of mental or intellectual damage. In addition, it is necessary to adopt programmes, raise awareness and provide support to society in order to change the way the company operates and to remove obstacles that prevent people with disabilities from being fully involved. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities introduces the obligation of the State to ensure a reasonable adjustment and says that the denial of reasonable adaptation of forms of discrimination, i.e. putting into a more unfavourable position on the basis of disability. To achieve full inclusion, therefore, an affordable physical and social environment is necessary without obstacles and the fight against prejudice. At the workplace, the adjustment may include the acquisition or adaptation of software and keyboards for employees with impaired vision, training or additional time to perform tasks. In education, reasonable adaptation may also require the provision of alternative ways to meet school or study obligations, help teachers or use assistive technologies. In this segment, employers are legally required educational institutions to provide service providers or others with reasonable adjustments. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, people with disabilities form a group of citizens who are not yet recognised as Croatian strength. Persons with disabilities should be allowed to work, to be educated, to be a resource of society and to feel useful. It should also ensure that people with disabilities participate in the life of the community in different ways, and especially should be encouraged by political participation to become a target group that benefits democracy and is useful for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33883	Thank you very much. Replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33884	Thank you very much, Vice President, Honorable Advocate, colleague Banic. Your debate was constructive and you said all this nicely only one problem in Croatia probably exists. We are bonds of many international contracts, including conventions and protocols along with conventions and laws ourselves. Unfortunately, some of them have not been adjusted. We have a really big commitment ahead of us. It all starts from ourselves and about how we consider the problem that lies ahead, and that problem can only be said by the state, regardless of the policies that currently rule were the left ones, the right ones, whether we are in opposition. Each of us can contribute to the fact that those regulations we have taken over as a future country, the European Member States of the EU are truly enforceable. The law is any law on paper can be good or bad, but law enforcement, law enforcement, and really help people not as help but as the hand of cooperation in life’s problems should depend on ourselves. So at these levels, first of all, we should find a major common political consensus, find the financial resources that exist. In many major cities where money is available, there may be more investment to help people with disabilities, money is spent on some irrelevant things, and then we say that there is an economic crisis, that there is no help. I personally believe that there is a great challenge ahead of us, from our heads, from our understanding of the problem, and to those tasks that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have given us in the Croatian Parliament, which is that we understand all groups of societies living in the Republic of Croatia without any difference in disability. And you are together with us all, those who choose MPs in Parliament, those who choose their mayors and their captains, those who choose their friends, and you can best understand when the state hands out to all those who live in its territory. They simply all deserved it by all the laws and regulations and by the dear God himself. The law doesn't need to understand that someone needs to be given something, we need to start from ourselves, and here we are to change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33885	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. My colleague Zlatko Komadin is on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33886	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney General. Here's an opening first to draw attention to one of the facts that my dear colleague Kovačić drew to my attention. You see in the break-up actually practice and theory or your theory of the road, and the practice of the woods, and it's about a lady translator for deafness who just intervened for the speed of speech, but none of us, for example. He didn't notice the length of her speech. Take, for example. That we took a break, so the lady might rest a little because she's been talking for 2.5 hours, right? I think so much about our perception of who has it or who doesn't. And I'm going to give another example because in practice and I've seen it, we have a break from the normative story of course that these conventions are commendable and that at the level of human rights we will all support the Convention and we are all, in fact, the consensus is surely present in this assembly. But let me tell you one example: blindness, for example. In practice, when you have compensation, then you have different fees for the same result, means for the same disability. For example, if someone is blind, it has different incomes based on social assistance or what I would say from that disability category if he was born blind or if he was blinded in the war or if he was blinded in his work or if he was blinded by a disease. And the consequence is the same, the man is blind and has different fees. So I just want to say that people with disabilities alone can't cope because they're a minority regardless of what every tenth and more citizens of Croatia have some kind of disability must give them that right most of them. And not to say that the first place is actually there in the ministries to create laws that are being implemented in practice and us who have to adopt it here, but not only adopt it but also initiate it. Because the defense attorney can and can, of course, and does a lot of work to point out a lot of things, but if what she points out doesn't come to the work of those who are responsible and responsible for it then there will be little. No matter what I have to say, my impression is that at least the public is much more sensitive to this subject than it was to say at some point when I was a bit younger.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33887	Thank you. Replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33888	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you. I just wanted to tell you something, the past government already at the end of the term of office, but this one, too, has committed to bringing in the so-called three-year term. "inclusive supplement." That very inclusive supplement would refer to various damages. Because here's my colleague Vinkovic saying he advocates a blindness supplement. And what, then, and who's going to stand up for the deaf, the weak-sighted, for not knowing the person in the wheelchair? That's exactly what's going to solve this inclusive addition of a lot. And I hope that the D.A. along with us will fight to get rid of it in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33889	Replication response, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33890	What Mrs. twilight says is that we have a break of practice, and here we have already been talking about, for example. persons with disabilities in a large number of cases do not have the right to specific medical care, etc. And the practice shows, I've seen it in practice and I've seen it in the family of these situations I've had, namely you can't raise people by raising a percentage of disability in order to achieve the right to actually go to the savings so you don't give them the right to some care, some supplies. For example, some special orthopedic shoes or I don't know any therapy, exercises, rehabilitation, but it's only given at some high degree of disability, and actually much lower levels of disability have these needs no'. And these people have to use it because they simply need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33891	A colleague of Ante Babic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33892	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Slošnjak's esteemed lawyer with assistants, respected colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I support your Attorney General's report on the work of persons with disabilities. On the bench we received one Manual – Invalidity and when you turn one page on the disability and ability, and in your preface you write about the pathology of society, i.e. the results of the failure of society to include all persons and to accept differences between individuals. So I'm actually going to take this opportunity and talk about one thing that I believe is known to you personally, and it's actually about one association with people with disabilities in the area of the Imot region. Nine years ago, when we talked and thought about it, we saw that disabled people from the Imot area were not institutionalally connected, they had no association, and then on that trail, along with the other municipalities and with the City of Imotski, we founded one association of people with disabilities. And we saw things actually on the ground that hit people with disabilities so some quadriplegics and paraplegics who haven't left their homes for 10 years or more without talking about their needs. The Association of Persons with Disabilities then approached the problem of disabled people in the area of the entire Imot region, and it largely succeeded. Today this association numbers 300 members and they are mostly through this association getting the needs most necessary, and through the logos, through psychologists and defecologists. This association, as I believe, and some others in the Republic of Croatia had one programme of institutional prevention that ends on 31 May of this year and I hope you are very familiar with this problem. Through this programme, the association has hired 24 employees who, if this program is shut down, will lose their jobs. At this point, it may be less important that 24 employees lose their jobs, but it is important that the members of the association lose everything they have so far in the association itself and through therapeutic activity on the ground, or in their homes. So I ask you, please, to appeal to the Resolute Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, at the Secretary-General who said yesterday that there would be no cuts, no cuts of rights, so I ask you and I appeal to you to pay attention to this project that is still under way, which should have been six years old. What I'd like to add, and this has been going through this debate today, is that we're advocating, and we actually need to support all the ideas and potentials of people with disabilities. When I was talking about this project, I'm going to tell you one more thing about these programs. This association has actually calculated that through this project that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth gives in the amount of 500 thousand kunas actually saves the state of the circus 1.4 million kunas only for travel orders because you know that people with disabilities are always accompanied. And I don't think there's any reason to continue not to support this project in that faith and hope that you will be busy supporting your work and I thank you in advance for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33893	Thank you very much. Final word on behalf of the HDSSB club and counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33894	Madam Vice President, Your Honor. I'll point out just a few things and the HDSSB club will support this report. Many today wondered where the man went, the man went nowhere, but apparently that man, a little paraphrasing and singing and lyrics, must find "The Way to Happiness." So they don't have really heavy colors in the Republic of Croatia, so I welcome Barrett. And it is not important to point out that Croatia is indeed a signator of all the most important international documents on the rights of persons with disabilities whose rights are regulated through almost 300 different regulations, but many problems remain when they need to be translated into everyday life. So if we were to look at the problem of disabled people only through this powerful one, I would call paperwork to guarantee their rights then we could conclude that the life of disabled people in Croatia is really ideal. But unfortunately, there's always that, but in everyday life, it's absolutely not like that. Invalids in Croatia continue to be marginalised, or disabled persons, excluded in most cases from the community. It's a bitter truth, the truth of everyday life in the Republic of Croatia. And most importantly, it does not have adequate material and other support for an independent life. This situation must definitely change at the state level, but also at the level of local self-government, but in order for the level of local self-government, because we are not all in the same position in Croatia, we are not in the same fiscal position, we definitely need to go through decentralisation in order to do this, and this fiscal decentralisation, not decentralisation through the granting of powers, and to address this problem. I will not give examples, I believe that there are enough in every city and that all those chosen by citizens and who recognize above all problems and persons with disabilities. The population of people with disabilities in the world is really big. In Croatia there are almost 11% and persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are at the lowest levels of income, both socially and socially and certainly different and are indeed at the minimum of standards. From that approach to public institutions to the fact that they cannot be adequately educated, to hire an almost large social community, it sees these persons as persons not only with special needs but I would say and dare to say unfortunately as social cases. In Croatia today there are more than 530,000 people with all kinds of disabilities, of which about 250,000 people who have become disabled due to inadequate working conditions and become disabled workers. It was also said that even though many of them were still able to work, they had to go to the so - called “workhouse. ” disability pensions where they receive fees of about 1200 kuna per month and these benefits are not enough for one normal life. I won't mention it and I don't really want to call these 375 thousand unemployed new disabled Croatian society but they are also entering this category. So here I call first and foremost on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all of us MPs to really discuss these problems not only when we discuss these reports but also to focus this debate on the adoption of the state budget, that these amounts intended for the standard of life of disabled persons are increased and not only for blind people, but this is an indicator of how much we care about the blind people these past 20 years because this fee is the lowest – even Albania has a bigger one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33895	Thank you very much. And the attorney general's final word for persons with disabilities Mrs. Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33896	Well, I thank all those who participated in today's debate, and I know we all have good intentions. But for all of us, despite the positive shifts from the very moment today, we can tell from yesterday that the position of people with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties, their loved ones and all those who support them has been truly worthy and one that we are talking about today as well as all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The question of people with disabilities in today's debate has been repeatedly discussed about the welfare system. I must say that the question of persons with disabilities, the position of persons with disabilities, the rights of persons with disabilities are not exclusively related to the welfare system. They are related to the question of all resolutions, all ministries, and if this cooperation really takes place at the right level, at the lowest possible level in the interest of persons with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties, then changes will be obvious for the better. Without inter-resorship cooperation, without involving experts who know best, I am talking here about both the academic community and all those areas where there are experts who can make their contributions with the inclusion of people with disabilities, including civil society organisations that are here partners and state and local and regional units, there is no real solution to the issues of persons with disabilities. Therefore, in this final word, I would still like to draw one line and say that in many areas, smaller environments, many families face the edge and are on the edge of poverty precisely because they have to allocate many of their resources in order to be able to achieve the right to health, the right to all those other services that citizens themselves can coordinate without a problem and they have to travel to other environments in order to get different services for their children or their family members to get better from adults. I therefore appeal to the state and to the national level both of the Government and the units of local and regional self-government to make every effort to, with financial resources, with that support, have understanding and not only to listen to these families but to capture and hear them and to apply that these people really have all the services they need in their midst to be what we say today at an equal level. Today we have one uncertainty through projects, we need a system. Without a systematic solution and without concrete application, there are no positive shifts. Helping people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties is not a matter of our mercy and it is not our humanity but a question of respect for their rights. People with disabilities like all other citizens are voters, they're taxpayers, they're citizens. They expect your support, and they have every right to it. This manual you have received is not a manual exclusively intended for parliamentary representatives. He is so called for the reason that it is an original translation and he is intended absolutely for all those who make decisions and who are in executive power. So the motto of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities says nothing about us without us. On this occasion, I urge all of you once again to involve persons with disabilities in your activities, in your decision that we really have a society equal for all citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33897	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met. Thank you, Mrs. Slonjak, and your associates and associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33898	Special Report by the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - a special report of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities shall be adopted. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 102 votes for the proposed conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: - the opinion, observations, proposals tabled in the debate on the report as well as the observations, proposals and recommendations made by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent national authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. May we please raise our hands and see who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 102 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33899	We move to: - Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2011 The Reporter is the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, based on Articles 129 and 139. Pension Insurance Act. You've received the material into the boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? On behalf of the promoter, Director of HZMO Srecko Vuković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33900	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Peace insurance is a key element of the social state and social security system in the Republic of Croatia. In the framework of the pension system, more than one million and 200 thousand pensioners and members of their families are realised by their social security, and therefore the report on the work of the HZMO is always a readable and valuable source of data that comes out of the framework of the pension system itself. And this report was drawn up by the same methodology as previous years' reports to make the data comparable. It contains the usual chapters on the state of the pension insurance system, intergenerational solidarity, the establishment of the institute and its human potential, information technology on the work of the Governing Council, financial business and portfolio of the Institute, and of course on the exercise of the right and the work of the professional service with a rich table contribution. The Institute is a public institution with public powers in solving pension insurance rights and obligations established by the Pension Insurance Act, which provides mandatory pension insurance based on generation solidarity. Other parts of the pension insurance system in the Republic of Croatia are mandatory and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings covered by a special law. A few words about the state of the pension insurance system of intergenerational solidarity. Mandatory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity must ensure the rights to age and early retirement, disability, family pension, minimum pension, basic pension, professional rehabilitation, compensation for physical damage and travel expenses in connection with the achievement of the security of the rights, which is all the same as the basic activity of the institution. The office registered a million and 213 thousand users in December 2011 which was approximately 1% more than in December 2010 and a million and 468 thousand insurance companies, which was about 0.6% less than in December 2010. This corresponds to 1:1,21 in 2008, this ratio was 1:40 in 2009. 1:1.30, and in 2010. 1:1,23. The data therefore speak of a continuation of the trend in the number of users of pensions and the decline in the number of insurance companies, which led to the lowest ratio so far and two groups of users of services of the Institute. Of the million 213 thousand pensioners, 633 thousand or 52% of them are old-age pensioners. The disability pension was made by 327 thousand users or 27%. Family something about 21% or 252 thousand users. Out of the total number of pensioners, almost 86% made a pension under the general pension insurance rules. At the same time, the number of persons who made their pension under more favourable conditions is reduced to 171 thousand 975 or 14% of the total number of pensioners. Despite the increase in the number of pensioners by around 1% and the increase in total expenditure by 0.2% compared to the previous year, the share of pension expenditure in GDP in 2011 slightly decreased to 10.42%. In accordance with the 2011 Rescheduling of Pensions and Pensions Act, pensions and pensions are not adjustments until regular pension coordination has been re-established since 1 January 2012 twice a year towards wage growth and consumer prices. The average pension achieved under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2011 was reduced by taxes and taxes amounted to 2151 kuna which was 0.24% less than in the previous year, while the average net salary was 39.17%. The average pension was made under the Pension Insurance Act without pensions achieved through the application of international contracts which in some ways distort the overall picture for December 2011 amounted to 2308 kuna, which was 42% of the average net salary. The average retirement rate on average net salary was 43.5%. Otherwise, the average retirement rate for full-time workers and independent professions is listed as the most common in international publications. According to the above criteria, an retirement pension of 40 and more years on 31 December 2011 resulted in 94 thousand users or 18.4% of the total number of retirement pensions and 12% of the total number of all users. The average pension was 58% when those pensions achieved through the application of international contracts were withdrawn, and this increased to as much as 68% but for full-time employment. The problem is that we see this full-time job out of the total number of pensioners achieved only 12% of pensioners. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute also implements the procedures for the exercise of the right to compensation for children. For December 2011, so in December 2011, there were 216 thousand users extra for children, which is 1.35% more than in December 2010. Therefore, they received an extra payment for 403 thousand children and it was an average of 356 kuna per child. Total for financing allowances for children in 2011, approximately as in 2010, a total of 1.7 billion kuna was spent. A few words about the financial business of the office. The total revenues of the institute amounted to €35.5 billion, and expenditures also amounted to €35.55 billion. For the illustration, 10 years ago, so in 2002 the expenditure was 23 billion kuna, so in 10 years we increased the total expenditure by 50%. The revenue from the contribution was generated in the amount of HRK 19,075 billion, which accounts for 53.6% of the total revenue achieved in 2011, and the revenue from the budget for the country's pension commitments achieved under specific regulations and other revenue from the budget was collected, so the state allocated 16.275 billion kuna and 46%, respectively. In the total expenditure structure, pension expenditure and pension income were 98.3%. The share of the expenditure of the Institute's professional service, which is therefore costing employees and material expenditure in the total expenditures in 2011, amounted to 1.3%, which is actually relatively cheap service compared to similar services, given the scope of the work carried out in the office, and in particular I must stress that when those costs are compared with the costs of administering the second pillar of pension insurance. It's a work of the Institute's professional service. As part of the implementation of pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity in 2011 at the Institute, a total of 557740 pension insurance rights requirements and child allowances were addressed. Of which 507801 requests or 91% were resolved. In 2011, first-degree execution was something better than in 2010. The number of new applications decreased by 13665, but the number of outstanding cases from the previous period decreased from 62661 to 51931 requests. In the second stage of 2011, 36139 cases were resolved, of which 28070 cases were resolved or 78%. The duration of the procedure in those cases is particularly affected by the procedure of medical skill with chronic deficiency and a great burden on the doctors of the institution and the emphasis on the departure of this high-level professional staff profile due to sensitive higher salaries outside the office. During 2011, work was continued on projects related to its reconstruction and modernisation. According to the 2011 work programme, a number of projects related to the implementation of the rules governing the pension insurance of generation solidarity, as well as those relating to the improvement and rationalisation of parts of the business process, have been completed. In addition, work was continued on a project to replace the work book in the Republic of Croatia, as part of which processes and procedures were designed and implemented to replace the work book and exchange of data between the associated institutions since 1.7.2013. I would point out that 2278 informed jobs in the office are performed annually over 70 million different types of transactions in online work with databases, using about 330000 transactions per day. And a few words about what's waiting for us in the future. Insisting on increasing awareness, quality in work, working disciplines, but also continuing supervision of lawfulness in the work so as not to repeat some episodes from past years, are primarily the tasks of the management of the office. We also have before us a job to correct the discrepancy between individual district offices with regard to the number of employees according to the number of insurance and users in that area, further rationalisation of the network of exposures, reviewing the founding of the required technical equipment for certain informed jobs, reviewing the standard set for certain jobs, precise detection of any surplus or perhaps lack of personnel in certain business processes, and certainly using positive experiences of the service of pension insurance Austria, Slovenia, Germany and other countries that can serve us as a role model. All of this should lead to the creation of a more modern, organised and more efficient service. In addition, it is necessary to team up part of the service in the implementation of international social insurance contracts and EU legal regulations, which we have been working very intensively for the past months, given the new jobs relating to the application of the European Union legal rules on child allowance and the matters of the establishment of relevant legislation. A big and important job ahead of us in 2013 is the establishment and deployment of the Centre for Medical Art, which is to be started on 1 January 2014 in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. It is pointed out that there will be functional diagnostics in the centre that will allow for proper additional medical treatment at the request of the experts. We will continue our efforts to reduce the expenditure of the pension paying office, and this primarily refers to the payment of services to Croatia's post office. Now it's 1.9% of every payout through post office with strengthening activities for the maximum use of the cash payout institute, i.e. avoiding cash payments via mail. On the other hand, further informing the Institute must be given priority. I believe that in the 21st century today, non-investment in information equipment cannot be justified by savings. And finally, but certainly not at the end of the day, opening up institutions to the public and changing the image of institutions in the public with a series of concrete moves that should primarily lead to a different attitude towards the population of pensioners or potential pensioners but also bring the institution closer to those same users or even better said, to each individual person. In fact, pension insurance of generational solidarity is the intergenerational agreement of the deepest ethical and human character. The resurrection of a new system of capitalised pension insurance does not mean a simultaneous end or death of an old system based on generational solidarity. On the contrary, the responsibility for the stability of the public pension system of generation solidarity, the height and security of pensions from that system and for the reforms and changes that appear within it becomes proportionately higher each day of application and a mandatory and voluntary system of capitalised savings. Both public and private pension insurance are just different co-existing models that ensure the stability and purpose of the pension system as a basic prerequisite for the quality of life of each individual aged. It can be said that even in such a system of parallel persuasion of the public and private remains the single primary goal of ensuring every person a decent life in a third age, life on the sunny side of age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33901	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33902	Well, right at the beginning, I think it would be good if we had a 2012 report right away. And I'd say it like this. Save me the god of heavy words and the sunny side of the third life. I think this report should have been contained and this for 2012 the fact that 80% of the pensioners in the Republic of Croatia can't survive from first to first, that I can't buy grandchildren when you mention the resurrection, I can't buy grandkids gifts for Easter, that these grandkids can't afford that rabbit. This should have contained this report. It is the truth of Croatia, not these difficult words. Perhaps this report should have included not only these e-mails sent to certain ministries, but also the fact that this Croatian Parliament has, on several occasions, passed amendments and amendments to the law so that the Ministry of Peace has both directors and assistant directors and deputies, and that they also have practically debt salaries, that at the same time, certain political shifts are resolved, that they are being replaced and placed politically similar through non-e-mails, but through political similarity. This should include a report for both 2011 and 2012. The resurrection is the only resurrection of Jesus Christ, and I do not believe that a Croatian pensioner who has worked fairly for 40 or 45 years can be resurrected with this shameful pension from which he cannot survive for seven days in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33903	Nancy Tyrelli, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33904	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's the deal. This is exactly what makes it possible for me to have a sunny life at the age of three for every insurance company. And another sentence to take concrete measures and approach each individual case, so I would take advantage of what you are here today to ask you how close you are to all those disabled other and third categories that worked in the Republic of Slovenia, and live in the Republic of Croatia, and when, last time from your address to their address, you sent any memo so that they know what their status is. Here we are witnessing that these people, unfortunately, have fewer and fewer, because they cannot wait to solve their problem. We often get answers from the competent ministry that they are working hard. However, that the Slovenian side has no hearing to solve such a problem, so I would like you to be here today when you hear the answer and to be heard by those disabled second and third categories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33905	Replication response, Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33906	... which this report came this late, indeed the 2011 report is coming in 2013. [[Specially enabled.]] It's just a little late. But it really did not depend on the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in this case. I hope that the 2012 report that we are obliged to submit to the Parliament by 30.6.2012 will not be in 2014 but will mean it in the middle of this year, or in a few months. Certainly, the hard words and easy words will not help, but only the dedicated work and us in the office, but I think all of you MPs as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we all understand that such a pension, such an average pension, is not a pension that could be said to be enjoyed, but actually survives with it. However, I say the causes are much deeper. As I said in the opening letter, only 12% of the total number of pensioners in Croatia completed their full internship. I think it hides a lot when we take the pension of these, the average pension of these users is close to 70% then we get a very different picture of the pension level compared to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. So we need to encourage in any case all possible measures as long as possible, as long as possible payment of the contribution. As for the answer to this question specifically, I know that it is the work of the two ministries working on it between the two states. A concrete answer, so either you get it from the ministry or from us at this point, so I wouldn't go into the specifics of what stage it is. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33907	Thank you. And Ivan Shuker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33908	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Director, Mr. Vukovic, whether you submitted this report in 2010, 2011, in 2012, your story is exactly the same because the amount of pensions paid is the same, the structure is the same. However, what I expected, I would talk more about it in my discussion, but I had to react simply to something in the replica. And that's your last line you can't talk about the sunny side without talking about the problem of the second pillar of retirement. And perhaps the biggest tragedy of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia is that everyone is silent and not talking about the second pillar of retirement and what is going to happen to people who decided ten years ago, in fact, by law, some of them had to go to the second pillar of retirement, since they didn't increase the retirement rate by the second pillar of retirement and simply neither did the government nor did you say a single word today. So in 2013, it'll pass that no one's going to deal with it. And are we going to get a new fourth group of endangered pensioners in the Republic of Croatia? And these are the ones who are going to get a pension part from this Pension Insurance Office, and the other from the second pillar of the pension. And I think that's the topic that we should open here today to discuss and the topic that we should talk about in Croatia in any way. Because I repeat with this law, with incomes like this and the structure of the pensioners, whether this report will be for 2014 will be exactly the same. Depending on whether your material costs will be 2% lower or lower, but as far as retirement reports are concerned, you will unfortunately have no difference because the structure is as it is and you cannot change it. But I also expected with regard to our discussion on the board that you, along with this report of yours, will be able to encourage a debate in this House of Higher Education on the burning problem of pensioners' pensions both present and future in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33909	Replication response, Srecko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33910	So, very briefly. I agree with you on the problem of the second pillar should be discussed and measures should be taken first of all. They should not be delayed and should not be put off in the far future, they should be taken as quickly as possible because this payment of contributions at this level is certain that pensions from the second pillar then neither pensions of those who go to both the basics and the pensions of the second pillar will be adequate nor expected to do so 10 years ago. What I can therefore say is that it is very intensively done in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System to make regulations regarding the second and third pillars of pension insurance. I think it's going to sort of improve the situation. Those laws will certainly come back here for discussion in this House of Commons. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's report in some way opens up a topic of the entire pension system, but we, however, are the people of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute who are implementing the system of generation solidarity and at this point we do not have a mandate to discuss the second pillar's system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33911	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club colleague Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33912	I thank the esteemed vice president, the director with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, the topic of the debate is the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2011. The pension insurance system in the Republic of Croatia is regulated and implemented as compulsory pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity and as compulsory and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. The subject of this report is compulsory pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity and work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. As we can see from the 2011 report, there was a continued trend in the growth of the number of pensioners and the decline of the number of insurance companies, so a million 213 thousand users and a million 468 thousand insurance companies were recorded in the office. So the ratio between the two groups was 1 to the 1.21. According to the Bureau's report, the total income of the Institute was 35 billion 560 and some million kuna, and 35 billion kuna was spent. So the total expenditures are higher by 0.2% in 2010, and here, as we've heard in 10 years, these expenditures have been significantly increased. The average pension made under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2011 was 2151.12 kuna and the average pension rate on average was 39.17%. Old retirement is an average of 2389.94. The average pension including the customers and pensions of the Croatian military, Croatian defenders and members of the Croatian Defence Council was therefore 2346 thousand kuna during that period, which is the share of 42.72% in the average salary. The Institute shall also carry out the procedures for the exercise of the right to compensation for children. In December 2011, there were 216,13 thousand users of extras for children who received an allowance for 403 thousand 64 children. The allowance was an average of 356.20 kuna per child. That's all the data here, and they're the most important ones. However, the 2011 Report did not show obligations towards disabled pensioners by applying the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on cooperation in the field of war-suffering rights in BiH which were members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families. The report in question states that users of disability pensions have been paid an amount of EUR 29 billion for a part of the outstanding amount of pensions for 2006 but no amount of outstanding amounts is indicated anywhere, which according to the data available to the Ministry of Finance amounts to more than $180 million, and we will agree that this is not a small amount. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office should state this fact in its report, given that the debts for 2006, and for 2007 and 2008. These amounts were to be planned and paid over the previous financial years. We also believe that in the annual reports of the institutions in the section relating to the settlement of allowances for children, it would be useful in particular to show the number of requests for increased child allowance and the number of positive requests for recognition of this right. In the relevant report in Chapter 6, financial operations, all pensions made under favourable conditions with corresponding amounts should be broken down in the framework of the budget revenue data, and not only in particular the amounts paid from the State budget for Croatian defenders' pensions from the Homeland War. For this reason, we support the conclusion, the SDP club supports the government's conclusion and accepts the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33913	Thank you very much. The Republic has a colleague, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33914	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, colleague Posavac, you have read very nicely to us the figures and data from this report, we are grateful to you only that I personally expected that we will not get any further further explanation of the report but that we may get from you as a representative of the club of the ruling majority in Kukurik government and how money is spent on Croatian citizens, who decide on them, who decides that on the basis of this money we pay, political managers who then increase the statistical figure in the employment office and increase the number of pensioners as is the case in Podrava.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33915	Replication response, Vanja Posavec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33916	Thank you. My colleague Hrg, that's why I pointed out in the beginning and finally, this is the 2011 report. It's a report, and the fact that you're using every opportunity to politicize and collect points is another thing now, let the citizens evaluate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33917	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, colleague Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33918	Thank you, Madam Vice President, respected directors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2011 and the status of the pension system based on generation solidarity for the same year. We see from the report that there was a continued trend in the ratio between insurance and pensioners in 2011, while in the 90th year, the ratio was 3 to 1, 98th, and one 54 to 1, in order to fall to the lowest ratio of 1 to 1.21 in 2011. In the 90-98 period, we lost 500 thousand insurance, and we got 300 thousand new pensioners. In 2011 and in relation to 98, we have the same number of insurance companies but more than 257 new pensioners. A large number of pensions are not covered by paid contributions, there are also social benefits and too many benefits. This poor ratio of insurance and pensioners with demographic status is the biggest problem of the Croatian pension system. There are too many lost jobs due to privatisation robbery, corruption, bankruptcy and cancellation and less paid contributions to the pension system. Under the password, so-called. We have the restructuring of workers in the overall fight for profit, with too little feeling for people and disrespect for those who have built and installed a part of themselves in all these companies for decades. Social property became state property, workers once again paid for what they created through the shares, and the wrong concept of privatisation destroyed the Croatian economy and production. The exit from these problems is constantly sought in the restrictions in the pension system, and the solution is on the other hand in the employment and investment that bypass Croatia, in the growth of the economy and GDP, and in the change of attitude that nothing is worth producing but we can import everything. In December 2011, the average pension under the Pension Insurance Act was 2151 kuna, which was the share in the average salary of 39.17%. While in early 2004, after the entry of the 100 kuna add-on and 6% pension, the stake was 43.65%. The main cause of such a pension decline was the harmful alignment of pensions according to the Swiss formula, which left pensions behind 10% in the period 99-2011. As the pension crisis came, instead of being the last line of defense, they found themselves on the front line of the battlefield. First of all, the crisis tax of 2 and 4%, and then in 2010 and 2011, the freezing and harmonisation of pensions, which resulted in a nominal decline in the average pension. For the past 3 years, the total pension expenditure has been around 35 billion kuna, which, despite GDP's decline, retains pension expenditures at 10.5% of GDP, which is at EU level. Slowing pension expenditure growth also contributes to pension levels. The average pension of new pensioners is lower by 450 kuna or even 19% from retired to 98. In 2011, 50,000 pensioners with an average pension of 1857 kuna were retired and 40,000 died with an average pension since 2012 kuna. The pension reform goal and the amendment of the pension insurance law since 1.1.99 was to alleviate the inflow of new pensioners and to keep the pension system under control. As a result of the implementation of this objective, the accounting period has been increased from 10 most favourable years to a full working life, the penalty for early retirement has been increased from 6.65 to 20.4%, the conditions of retirement in invalidity and the current value of the pension as one of the most important elements of the pension calculation have been calculated on the basis of the stolen pension level of 31.12.98. What are we doing these last years? In addition to financial defaults and early retirement beneficiaries, they were encumbered to a pillar of shame. Why? Just because after losing jobs, bankruptcy and privatisation robberies, they dared to go to early retirement. And while trees and stones have been thrown at early pensioners all these years, nothing has been done to prevent excessive and unwarranted retirement. The discovery of Dr. Rubale's affair and his friends with the purchase of fake and disabled pensions pointed to the problem. In Croatia, we have only 11% of early pensioners, but even 27% of disabled pensioners. The average staff of early pensions in 2011 is 36 years and 7 months. Age pensions 29 years and 9 months and disability pensions only 23 years and 7 months. And here we come to one of the greatest absurdities and injustices of our pension system. One year of work for early retirement is 64 kuna, an age pension of 66 kuna and a disabled pension of 83 kuna. Users of disabled pensions with the lowest internship had the highest pensions while early pensions users with the longest internship have the lowest pension and the IMF World Bank and Croatian economists tell the story that they need to be fired even harder. And while on one side of the day we record a large number of job losses on the other side, we hear that there is still a need to tighten the conditions for going to the property, increase the age limit to 67 years and rot 130 thousand from 34 years on the stock market. This report shows how significantly the Institute has improved communication with insurance and pensioners who have a range of opportunities to access current information via info telephones, Institute websites and written and electronic means. Thus, the Institute’s website reminded about a million and 286 thousand visitors and was reviewed about 5 and a half million pages. In 2011, 45,000 people who were visited more than 200 thousand times requested access to the user pages. These sites were mainly used by pensioners who were able to check their internship and salary in a very simple way to obtain an informative calculation of their future pension. For me, the statistics are particularly interesting, which are quarterly and provide very detailed information on how insurance and especially on pension system developments and are a good basis for discussions on improving the pension system of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Party of Retired Representatives' Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33919	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. There you go, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33920	Since your party was also with the HDZ in the coalition, now with the SDP, I don't see that your party is this one, I don't think of you personally because you weren't a representative, you may have made certain decisions but that it has contributed significantly to improving the standard of life of the vast majority of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. And even in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, there is no word about those who have done their lives fairly, nor is the Constitution guaranteeing this right to a dignified life after the end of their working life. The fact is that the Constitution states that everyone has the right to work and freedom of work and that everyone freely chooses the call and employment, each under equal conditions is available to every job and duty. However, these jobs are not available in Croatia, but the real picture of Croatia and the vast majority of pensioners is there and we do not have to go to Slavonia now either, we can also go here to Ban Jelačić Square, go to Ilica, go to any quarter of Zagreb, and as Ingrid would say, you don't want to be whiteish every pensioner who has worked fairly and done his working life has his own container and defends him, defends him from another pensioner because it is the only way to survive because with this shamefully low pension he can't survive seven days. It's a real picture of Croatia. This is the result of all these possible coalitions that brought these pensioners to the beggar stick, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33921	Comrade Vinkovic, it is not correct to mention in this way a colleague sitting here with us in Parliament who is not here today, so please. It's a turtle, Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33922	Well, my colleague Vinkovic, I think I've done quite enough to make a good cut from 90th to the year this report shows what someone did since '98 when this pension reform came and which, according to this report and according to all the data, has done the most damage especially to the new pensioners. It's been known since '93. until '98. Stolen one generation of pensioners and gave a very, very many years, and so today, whenever a law is passed and always in those laws, a group or a pensioner or a worker is damaged. And that kind of correction lasts for years. When did the Constitutional Court of '98 decide on how many years it took to start the first payment? It took eight years. So in such a situation, the pensioners are certainly damaged because this new generation can be said to be making one contribution each year, and it can be measured into 3.5 billion because the difference between old and new pensioners is now 462 kuna, which is at the annual level of 3.5 billion, and I think it is the largest contribution of one part of the population to all these reforms and those situations and the consequences that occurred before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33923	Next in line for the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33924	Mr. Schamper, I really liked your debate, the specific analysis or the chronological agreement of the problems that led to this situation in which the pension system is located today, but as a colleague, Vinkovic, I would remind you of the inevitable fact and responsibility that your party carries, practically 10 years in one form or another, you are part of the government and, in addition to participating in the repayment of debt to the pensioners, you were not prepared to take responsibility for correcting these deviations. Well, I'll remind you that the president of your party was also offered and he was not prepared to accept responsibility for the ministerial post in that portfolio. And I think it's part of the responsibility that you're going to have to take as far as it goes. And when it comes to this disability pension problem that you're here, too, I think you've made an excellent detection, I think the basic problem of our relationship to work is that we're still as a society, so sometimes as a Parliament, we're not ready to take over the fact and set up work as a category that has its own value and work to evaluate in the first place. We're willing to value everything, every form of credit other than the concept of work, and that notion of work if we start to evaluate it throughout the paradigm, it will eventually be valued in the pension system, and that's not the case now. And the second thing, the question of the second pension pillar and these mandatory pension funds that have been used to pump up that situation on the Croatian stock exchanges that took place in the second half of the last millennium, let's say, and when that balloon blew out who eventually paid the price? They've paid just for those who invest in that second pillar. And at this point, it would probably be a higher value for these pension funds if that money had just been put into the bank instead of being used for manipulation on the stock market and for Zagreb and Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33925	The answer to the line, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33926	Well, my dear colleague, I thank you for your assessment of my debate. As for the other things you have stated, HSU can in any case and can account for what it has done during what period. We have one set of our results and we are probably the only party that can and numerically support each result after its action. To start not only from a 10.5 billion compensation, we can talk about 100 kunas and 6% today worth a billion 300, we can talk about a promise of up to 20% since 2001, which is now over 2 billion, we can talk about the law on the addendum that is a billion 200 million. So we stand behind these results. And when we couldn't do something then in that case, as is known in 2009, when we got two tax crises when pensions were frozen for two years, when we were the first to practically pay that account for the start of the crisis, then of course we had to get out of such a coalition. As for the second pillar, the second pillar is not the subject of this report, the second pillar will likely be the problem of all the coming years, but rather work with the Ministry of Labour and the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33927	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33928	Thank you very much. Mr. Schamper, here you are talking about firing workers, the problems that arise. And I mentioned a little while ago and you're from this neighborhood, so I'm going to say that we have a crazy job release at one of the most popular Croatian firms. And I ask you as a man of that sub-level neighborhood, as a member of the ruling coalition to influence the SDP to stop the foolish behaviour of the political manager who led Podravka through pension funds, through the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I ask you to do so that these reports in the coming years will not be even stronger, even worse with even worse statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33929	The answer to the line, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33930	Well, dear colleague, let's play the demagogue now. I must remind you, I left Podravka in 2000 at that time Podravka had 11.5 thousand employees. Today it fell to 6 grand. Who was at the head of Podravka and who dictated what was going to happen in Podravka. Our profit, profit, wages didn't increase, the creams were picked up by top managers. At one point 250 people were God-given managers, not wondering about the results of the work, got cars, cards and good pay. Let us remember the severances behind which the results of the company did not stand. Therefore, the problem has not been in the last year, the problem is already 12 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33931	And Ivan Shuker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33932	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Schamper, I need to replicate to you for a simple reason because you forgot, you're a credit to yourself that you've done something about repaying your debt to the pensioners. It cost the Croatian state 14 billion kuna, which is a fact to be said. But I also want to say here for the sake of the public, when you talk about crisis tax, it was necessarily evil, but you forgot to say the key thing is that 880,000 pensioners didn't pay a crisis tax, they were paid only 300 grand. But when we talk about consistency, I don't want you because I respect you as a gentleman and as a fellow representative to politicize, but I have something I need to tell you, colleague Schamper. If you say that you left the government because of the crisis tax, then I don't understand how you didn't leave the government when the VAT rose 2%, when the electricity price rose 20%, when the price of gas and heating rose 37% which, unfortunately, costs Croatian pensioners several times more, and these are facts that you can't escape from. And you can't ignore the fact, you can't say it's wrong if someone has a higher pension not to pay the same tax as all the other citizens of Croatia. That was perhaps the only solution at that time to get the money so we could be in charge of paying off our pensions. But I repeat, you've raised your hand to increase VAT 2%, you've raised your hand that HERA makes a decision that electricity can go as far as it wants at market prices, that my Gorics go 37% or that the gas price goes 37%. If you thought that way as you say about the crisis tax then you should have left the government, because trust me, an increase of 2% of VAT was the most affected by Croatian pensioners and Croatian citizens who have paid below 3000 kuna because these 2% VAT increases are unfortunately about what they have to use monthly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33933	Replication response, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33934	Well, fellow Shuker, I think you remember well in 2009, at the beginning of the HDZ year there was no word, no crisis was said. In June 2009, you said there will be no pension in September unless we introduce a crisis tax. ... I think we all remember that well. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think we remember that. ... As for the raise of VAT hands and these other things that happened this year, you need to know that this government has defrosted pensions, that third term pensions are coordinated...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And to correct that VAT 25% of everything that wasn't done before, otherwise you wouldn't... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Where would these pensions come from? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33935	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Please clear it outside the hall. On behalf of the HNS club Srdjan Gjurkovic. ... A fellow Shuker. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The club loses the right to argue on this point because there are no colleagues. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And we will hear more from the club of Croatian Labour Labour Laburists and colleagues Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33936	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, colleagues and colleagues. We have heard clearly today that this debate on this report would have had a much greater meaning and meaning if we had had the opportunity to discuss it in the past year is it still in September included in the agenda, and here today we received it in debate which clearly does not go to your soul, Mr Vukovic, but practically to those who are preparing Parliament meetings. However, the report is very important because it refers to some 2 million and 650 thousand citizens, covering those who are receiving pensions and those who are paying the fund for their pension. In the report we have a full number and they are now completely different from the 2011 data, so when we take certain movements then there are really worrying trends that are getting worse from year to year. The data show that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute was registered in 2011, which was already spoken of, millions and 213 thousand users and a million 468 thousand insurance companies. Now these figures are with a lot more pensioners, and with a lot less insurance, which is a significant concern. The Institute made 35.5 billion kuna funds, which is about 1/3 of the budget when we take the Croatian budget into question. Of which 54% or 19 billion were made from contributions and 46% or 16 billion from budgets. That 16 billion a year or about 1.3 billion a month is missing for regular pension payments. From this data, we see that the first pillar with such low employment is unsustainable and that the current and future pensioners cannot expect anything good in their future unless positive changes occur soon. There is no greater employment and job creation. This government has so far done nothing on this plan, and the long-term sustainability of the fund is questionable. Today I spoke to the DIOKI workers who were protesting here at Mark's square. They don't have a chance for a new job, they don't have any severances, they don't have paid contributions for the whole of 2012, they don't have the right to return taxes until they pay their contributions, and they're at least guilty of it. And they ask if their condition is responsible in this country. The way things are probably no one, because that tape has been pulling for over a year and it hasn't gotten rid of it when it comes to their rights. However, the government is doing something, it reduces wages, which directly raises the sustainability of the pension system, as there will be a significant reduction in funding for pension insurance with a clearly smaller number of insurance companies. This is also a further trend that will lead to the very negative situation of the first pension pillar. Although there is no speech in this report on the second pillar, but let me just say two sentences because it is not the subject of the report, but somewhere around 5 to 6 billion a year is being separated into a second pillar because these money in this situation is clearly missing in some way to meet certain obligations when it comes to pension rights. The second pillar also raises the question of the risk of money that has been allocated so far and at the time how it will finally be resolved, because we also have some information that some of this money is in a certain Nexy stock group or in certain records, and their uncertainty is in the money market at all. These negative trends in consumer and insurance relations are constantly or constantly getting worse. In 2008, there was a ratio of 1:1.4 employees and 1 pensioner, while in 2009, this ratio was already 1:1,3, 2010, 1:1,23, 2011 which is also in this report 1:21, and this year it falls 1:1,17. And if we continue with this trend very quickly we will come to have one worker and one pensioner. In addition, here it was today, my colleague Schemper pointed out, practically the Government in one part is also adding to the International Monetary Fund, which announces the extension of the employment period to 67 years instead of a strategy for the development of the economy that will ensure and improve this situation in the future by opening new jobs and creating a sustainable fund with the completion of more insurance companies to pay into this fund. The government is not very interested in whether merchants, kindergarteners, teachers, drivers, construction workers, workers in sloths, etc. I could list my work indefinitely at 67 years of age and whether employers want workers at that age and what their effectiveness is. That should be discussed first, and only then would you consider extending your working life. The government doesn't care either that the life span of citizens in Croatia is 4 to 5 years shorter than in most EU countries, and that they have a different standard of protection at work that protects the health of their workers while this is not the case with us. In addition to these poor trends in the report, there is also an internal control, and there is no question of affairs, the purchase of disability pensions, even though USKOK launched an investigation into Draga Rubale and similar ones that took between 2 and 5000 euros and some of them undeservedly made pensions. There are also some stories about 5,000 false defence disability pensions and the amount of 4.2 million kunas that have been damaged for 14 years by the budget. But there's, if and there's doubt about it then the relevant ones should probably take that flint off in a way to get rid of it or determine whether there's any truth in those stories or not. It also concerns the fact that we have over-the-counter disability pensions from the total number of pensioners. We're a country with all kinds of wonders, so let's go far from other countries and in the number of disability pensions. We have a hundred thousand working-age population of 12,000 disabled pensioners, which is 12% For example in Italy and Belgium, this ratio is 3 thousand disability pensions per 100,000 inhabitants, which is 4 times less than in Croatia. On the other hand, we have examples that seriously ill workers who can't work anymore can't exercise the right to a disability pension, and some in full strength receive good disability pensions and are still working on black, which, on two grounds, damages and cheats the state. According to the report, the average pension was 2151.12 kuna in 2011, and for example in 2012, the average pension increased by 33.38 kuna. If we just remember what happened to us last year, that the electricity increased by 20%, heating by 30%, water, transport, food prices increased due to the increase in VAT. Does that cover that 33.38 kuna in the average pension? I wonder how these pensioners can still carry that burden on their backs and not with their own guilt have been brought practically into an unembarkable position. We also have 570,000 pensioners below 2,000 kuna with pension benefits, which is somewhere near half the pensioners below the poverty threshold. Countless pensioners are under arrest, according to some estimates there are about a quarter of them who cannot simply pay and settle all their accounts even though they would be very happy to do so and knowing that pensioners are the first to receive pensions immediately to settle all their obligations. A large number of these pensioners with a peak that have a few dozen kunas are also burdened with the costs of performance that sometimes amount to over 1000 kuna. I'm afraid even the restrictions on their performances won't help them much because what they have left for life is certainly not enough for a decent life and a decent age to enter. What should be commended in this report and it can be noted that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has become more effective because it has managed to resolve more requirements than it has been in previous years and has become significantly more effective. 91.5% of the demands were resolved while less than 9% were transferred last year, which made the fund significantly more efficient. And most importantly, it was done with fewer employees in 2011 than in 2010 and I believe that such trends will continue in 2012. The number of employees in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has decreased by 10% over the last three years, and the average salary is moving somewhere with an average salary in the Republic of Croatia. In order to conclude that the institution has made some positive developments in restructuring and in greater efficiency. And finally, this is commendable but it will not solve certain problems of the pension system that are really worrying and as many messages as are being sent to pay off pensions are safe I'm afraid if it doesn't start with new employment and providing more jobs and more insurance to pay into pension funds that we come into a one-off situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33937	Thank you. We'll still listen to the replicas. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33938	A fellow Tušak report as a report, so it is also the content of the report, the thing is also that this report is technically conceived, but what comes behind this report comes that raw reality and practically one large majority of pensioners on the streets do not want to offend anyone are forced to read through those containers to collect packaging, look after those eco-containers for bio-waste, look for introduced salad, old bread, etc. Sadly, there goes the greatest Christian holiday of Easter. Well, here I am, as mayor, for a decade I've been saying again, unfortunately, I'm giving the resurrection to the pensioners as well. So, for those who have done their job honestly for 40, 45 years who were to buy presents for Christmas and birthdays and Easter, maybe 100, 200 kunas when the child passes with 5 or descriptively now in these descriptive grades with excellent, however, these great majority of Croatian citizens who created among other things and this Croatian state have also created these companies that were robbed in conversion and privatisation today were brought to the parties who were in the coalition and who cared for their standard brought to the beggar stick. So it was very sad for me to listen to a gentleman from HSU who boasted with certain figures that these pensioners had helped. Well, there's those pensioners on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33939	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33940	Thank you. My colleague Vinkovic, in large part, agrees with your replica, and it is clearly saddened that when pensioners cannot afford a resurrection or a Christmas certificate, and what I said behind it I stand because I know from my own experience and by my late parents when they got their pension, the first thing was to pay the bills and settle all those obligations. But, yes, we've come slowly into an unexplainable situation and this when you say that they can't buy for Easter to their grandchildren but worst of all that they have to give out of these little pensions and to their children who can't find a job and who can't get a job and who are also in a very unexplainable situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33941	And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33942	Dear fellow Tušak, all these numbers you have spoken and which the predecessors have spoken are not a fruit by chance but rather a systematic collapse of the pension system. Just remember that, let's say the pension stampede in the 1990s when people with 40 years of life were retired, not a job internship. When we know that, in Croatia, the average retirement rate is 51 years of life, and in the EU 61, the terrible balance that we are hearing about today is quite normal. However, you mentioned what is not in the report, which is an affair. In these affairs such as, these affairs two, three were left in the media, however, the culprits of these, protagonists of these affairs continue to act politically, so we also have a president of a pensioning party who, at least he was called, was raised to me and the charge against him, even politically acting, seemed to me then to be called that Mr. Lazar Gruic. Who also went through the system to pay and retire. Nothing was done to punish them, to take away those privileges, because they were privileges because it wasn't deserved that they retired so they bought those pensions or did very little. It's starting to work, but we're a country that when something starts to work, you just give up if there's someone else that needs to be penalized. So, all of this is done, that we will come very quickly that we will have 1 400 thousand pensioners and not that we will have 1 400 thousand employees, but 1 200 thousand employees, because the government is not working on the other hand to get as many people employed as possible, we are underworked.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33943	Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33944	Thank you. However, I hope my colleague Vuksic will not be in such a situation, is that it would be disastrous for this country. But what you said and, in any case, I completely agree that part of illegal pensions, not a particular order, are not implemented certain activities to see about it if there are illegal pensions and that these privileges are in some way denied. And when it comes to this system and going to retirement, however certain legislation was amended and how it was tightened, certain conditions for retirement were then allowed a certain stampede of people to retire and in a way, we know that it was even on advertising boards by individual companies to report to those who wanted to buy out pensions. And clearly this is unconsistent management, the issue of pension policy that has brought us into one of these situations, and the only way out of this situation is what you said and what we say as Croatian Labourists must definitely increase jobs in Croatia, that new jobs must not be opened and that there must be a reduction of salaries and destruction of the middle layer of citizens is they who are full of pension funds and we have less and less money. And clearly, we're all getting into places where there's no contribution to pension funds in those funds that are directly out of the budget so that pensions can be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33945	Thank you. I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m. and then it's the first one, on behalf of the HDZ club Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33946	My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Directors with associates, colleagues and colleagues, it is great to see how many of us are in this assembly together such an important debate, but let me present on behalf of the HDZ Club our opinions on the report concerning the period when the government in Croatia acted as a coalition headed by HDZ but also one application so that it should simply not be allowed to report by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute after and to discuss it after the budget is adopted for the following year. So it would be logical for this report to be discussed by the time the budget is adopted for the next year for the simple reason why parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public would get a lot of information. Because the reports on this later I will talk about it are quality-made and it offers a number of quality information and it, when discussing the budget for next year, could also be used by all interested parties because it practically leaves around 33.34% of the total expenditure of the state budget. And let me also say that this report is the same for 2010, 2011 as there was no indication when this report was explained on behalf of the rapporteur, what will happen with pensions, whether there are reforms or not. Similarly, it will not be fully identical in the figure, but if it does not change methodologically but I see no reason to change it except to supplement some data will be a report for 2012, 2013, and we can go on forever until economic growth is slightly larger and some figures will not change. What amazes me is the government's opinion. Sincerely speaking, if you already want to remove someone from somewhere then at least find the right argument that you do not have a positive opinion about the report for which all the representatives are on behalf of all clubs who have said that it is technically and correctly made, but it does offer a number of indicators and data about which many Croatian citizens simply and even we representatives had no idea. However, it states that no figure has been mentioned but even more absurd this second part of the argument is also said by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that in the annual report of the Institute, it would be useful to show in particular the number of requests for an increased child allowance and the number of positive requests. Now you can think of it as a couple hundred or tens of thousands of kuna, and we're discussing a report that tells us that 36 billion kuna is being spent. So it's just absurd. This only explains why this report, which is the Croatian Pensions Institute in one correct time, given the changes and all that took place in 2012. In fact, in September, she sent it to the government and the government could forward it to the Croatian Parliament by the end of September so that he might be upset with it. But let's go slowly on this report. It's right here at the beginning, and I'm surprised the government didn't, in its opinion, make it get thrown out because they keep saying and it's not true. The report therefore states that the share of pension expenditure in GDP in 2011 slightly decreased to 10,492%, due to the fact that pensions did not comply, 2010, 2011 and a slight increase in gross domestic product in 2011. So this is the official document that passed through the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia officially acknowledges that Croatia had economic recovery in 2011, which is simply facts that can't be helped, cannot be escaped, and now we're going to wave nice whenever we need this data because the fact is fact. You adopted him and you can't get away from it, no. But what Mr. Vukovic said and there I will now agree to many things with him. In fact, it suggests that some things are made because this is simply a craftsmanship that is made in quality. So even when I talk about this report, we should discuss a little bit of what is the real problem of the RH pension system. And this is that we collect a little less than 20 billion a year from the basic pension contribution and the total cost of paying pensions, which is the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is 36 and a half billion. So 16 and a half billion is a minus between the basics of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to do this complete and very complex job spending and what is being collected. And that's the key problem, and that's the problem that we can include that afternoon discussion when we talked about the minimum wage because when your minimum wage is the same then you can't even talk about your average pension being much higher. Because unfortunately, all those people who talk about getting that minimum wage tomorrow can't expect more than 70% of that to be their pension. And that's why when we're simply discussing individual reports, certain legal proposals, we have to understand that it's a law of joint business. And some debates have to overcome partial political interests because it's about life's fates. So the report and when it comes next year for 2012, so during the mandate of the SDP government, I will not say anything different than I am saying today. So the real problem is that the colleague of Vukovic also said that only 12% of the pensioners have a practically full-time job or if all pensioners are taken so that with only an internship longer than 40 years is 18% of the pensioners. And that's a key problem for a lot of people who should pay and work, so retirement is retired, they get a pension as it is, unfortunately, very low and we have what we have. But colleagues and colleagues, there is also a data that says that the average retirement pension rate is 32 years old. 35 years of early retirement, disabled pensioner 23 years of age, family pensioners 27 years of age, the average retirement pension rate of all pensioners is 29 years and the proportion of pensioners with an completed retirement period of 40 years and more in the total number of pensioners is also increasing and it was 12% in 2011. And why am I telling you this? Because colleagues and colleagues while we out of the current million and 250 thousand pensioners have only 12% of those who have full employment and talk about how tomorrow we should move the retirement limit to 67 years will have an effect only in 15 or 20 years because when we talk about all pension laws and pension reforms and any giving of rights then we have to say that this effect is progressively growing only in ten or 15 years, it's more... it's simply a fact that we have to keep in mind when we talk about these things. But there is something on page 11 that I would really like to comment on with my colleagues from HZMO about when I was Minister of Finance. I just can't agree when and don't get me wrong now that I'm defending something when we're talking about pensioners who have made their pension under favourable conditions. When spoken in public, then it's as if these people have never worked anywhere and never paid a pension internship. That's just not true. 'Cause look, and all the NOR members were working somewhere and paying for a retirement internship somewhere. So they have made some kind of legal retirement based on their achieved, and the fact that some law has given them the right to have an allowance on that pension or that that pension must not be below that amount, that is, the actual cost of, say, which is to come from these privileged pensions. Because each of these people has worked through their working lives, making pension payments as well as any other citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, when we talk about this amount of spending on these pensions under more favourable conditions, then I think it would not matter in one report which, perhaps when you do a 2012 report, try to create a simulation because look at the number of 172 thousand people for whom perception is in the Croatian public. And I'm surprised that HSU never did analically deal with it, but they say no is not true, pensions are the basics of a working internship are so much and they cover the contribution that's not true. And even fellow Parliamentarians who got a much bigger pension than they would have had a part of them if they had gone to regular retirement, had spent one part of their working life somewhere else, had paid a pension internship, and therefore they had some right to some kind of pension. And why am I saying that? Well, that's exactly what I'm saying because of these 16 billion. Because it's not good not once I've listened to it in conversations and negotiations with HSU that the pension contribution covers what pensions are those who have left the regular internship. So all these 172 thousand paid pensions in one of their lifetime, and with that basis, they'd retire to some kind of retirement. So what they're getting is something more. Here we take according to the rights of Croatian defenders, Croatian defenders when they retire, correct me if I am wrong, their pension should not be less than 40% of the average salary is something like that. I think that's how it's defined. And now if one of them has a higher pension of 40% on the basis of his job internship, he won't make a pension on the basis of the right, well 45 I apologize for that, and I did say that you correct me if I make a mistake. So if he makes a bigger pension, he will not make a pension as a Croatian defender, but is making a pension based on it and must fill the full term. He cannot retire just because the Croatian defender was but some perception has been created that Croatian defenders have such rights and rights. But for those Croatian defenders who retire during the legal provisions, and their pension is below 45% of the average salary, the law would have told them their pension on behalf of the Croatian defenders should have been 45%. So that's something that needs to break what's kind of perception in the Croatian public. As well as employees who were former members of the NOR and members of the Croatian Homeland Army from '41 to '45, former JNA members and these are the groups that are the largest. So, all these people in one of their lifetime, some of them made less of a contribution and paid that... to retirement, so this table I think should be made some kind of correction for a simple reason to give one real data, and above all because of the disabled and defenders of the Homeland War because they were the most focused that they got the privilege of having such that they might have been the most hit by it. And also when you look at colleagues and colleagues all members of the Croatian Parliament and the members of the Government of them 541 for these 20 years have gained a pension based on some status, more or less all these people have had some kind of work experience and based on that would achieve a pension. You even have a colleague, and even from the government that I was in who retired who didn't use a pension under this law, but who retired on the basis of what they were paying for during their professional work because their pension was bigger, so you have a case like that. But because of the truth, because of those different historical times in these areas, I think this table should be fixed. So they didn't retire without achieving some right. And since time has been slowly leaking to me, let me say something else, no matter what I'm under attack again in 2009 by those who attacked me, the second pillar of retirement. Croatian pensioners have suffered four traumas over the past 20 years, at this point we have four types of Croatian pensioners who have changed certain laws or have dropped a smaller pension just because a day or two later have retired from someone else. However, what I am afraid of and what I am expressing here is also a concern, and also a recommendation to colleagues from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is that it must be resolved under an emergency second pillar of pension or increase the contribution or simply abolish it. Look, we each year give 5 billion kunas to funds that manage it in the way they manage, and 5% of the pension pensions will be below each level at the time when they start using them in a few years, when most Croatian citizens make the most of their pensions come from the second pillar of pension. So, given that the proposal was at a time when the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia was different, given that at the moment the global financial market has experienced several stresses, and since these funds have lost over a billion kunas of their assets in the financial crisis, I do not think that the same report should be discussed by the Government on an urgent basis in pension reform, because if that does not happen to Croatian pensioners in 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33948	Thank you. We have several replicas reported to your presentation. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33949	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shuker, you discussed this report well, and you mentioned that famous fact that only 12% of people retired from full-time employment. What these people have received from this full - time work, many of them today suffer because in some ways they have turned out to be Zagori fools. Here's an example of my father who did 40 years of work, had a pension of 2100 kuna, and he went on full pension with 40 years of work while his colleague at the same job, so he had a pension of 2700 kuna, and he has 25 years of employment. And what to say today about the justice of all this, what to expect all those who should also retire tomorrow with a full-time job when we have the fact that everything's been spinning around for a few days and a time since it's been going or leaving, let's say when you get a solution that you're retired. As time goes by, and we see that this system is going in the wrong direction, that it's getting more and more sustainable, there's really a question of what awaits all future pensioners, especially those who have really done everything the way the laws of this country do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33950	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33951	Thank you very much, fellow Boric. That's why I said when it comes to reforming the pension system then a quality assessment must be made, which means in 10 years or more. For reasons we in Croatia have traumas among the pensioners due to changes to the laws that happened for the first time in 2002, and then we changed again and then we got those new and old pensioners and the difference in pension is several hundred kuna, depending on who went at which moment. Therefore, according to the pension system that Zagorci would say is not walking, it is not digging nonsense, but when going into retirement reform it must be done in quality and when it is adopted then it must be known that it must be worth at least a decade and a half or two if there are no significant economic disturbances. Everything else brings us to this. Why this big difference in pensions? Look, we are, today's pensioners, one part of them spent much or less of their working time in Yugoslavia when inflation was a thousand and some more percent and when comparisons and profits are practically immeasurable. Remember what we had in 2003, actually until '93. The year before the Stabilisation Programme in the 10th month 1993, inflation was practically a thousand and more percent. So the salary that was according to Markovic in '89. 2000 marks after that devaluation practically late '90s. or early '91. that salary fell to 100 or 200 marks and how you can, and everything was in the dinars, and it later turned into HRDs or kunas, as you can correctly calculate without some revaluation factors, what is the pension of which is the largest trauma, and some economic geniuses will probably calculate it but unfortunately Croatian pensioners have not yet managed to make it possible for Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy to endure it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33952	Thank you. Next replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy. Excuse my colleague Gjurkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33953	A fellow vice president, an article 213 which speaks of the right of speaker means the right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he has applied for losses and a club of representatives whose representative was not present in the hall when he was invited to speak on behalf of the club of representatives. ... A colleague Gjurkovic was not there and can no longer speak [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] So the club's representative wasn't in the Parliament. [[I've lost too.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Gjurkovic: I lost my right to debate and over.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33954	The club doesn't have it then, the club loses its right to debate. A colleague named Gjurkovic came forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33955	We've been interpreted, so we're, we can't speak at all. [[No, not until the end.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33956	Allow your colleagues. ... Just a little bit, please. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] So, colleague Gjurkovic, here's an interpretation, colleague Gjurkovic reported himself on behalf of the club and lost his right, was not present and the club is losing its right to debate. counterpart Gjurkovic now reporting for replica But he himself didn't lose his right. [[Intruder: Can't.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33957	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, so we don't mind at all that our colleague Gjurkovic is saying it wouldn't turn out to be us now, however, just a little. Replica is the same speech, sir. Look, we had a similar case a month ago. My colleague Milinkovic isn't. Look what he's doing. Let's go see what it says here and change that for us. The right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he applied to be lost and the club of representatives whose representative was not present in the hall. So a complete club loses the right to talk about it. That's what my people say in the Rules of Procedure. Look and you'll see, here's what's written here. The right to talk about the subject, because you have before you have a representative who applied for the speech and was not present in the hall when he was called to lose the right to talk about the topic of the agenda for which he applied. So that's where you talk about the MP. Then we have the next provision. The right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he applied to be lost and the club of representatives whose representative was not present in the hall when he was called to speak on behalf of the club of representatives. ... Well, he was invited to speak, he wasn't inside. ... [[You can't hear it.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33958	I'm just asking you colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, please just a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33959	You do, but, of course, the Temple you interpret, and otherwise the laws, it's common knowledge of your suitability. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33960	Thank you. I'm begging you, colleague of the Hill, please like this. Here's a colleague of Vinkovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33961	I could've asked Mr. Vice President for a break on behalf of the club, but I just want to remind you that in the same way the President of the Parliament took away my right to speak for the same thing, doing the same thing. Then let's stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33962	But individually, it was me who didn't know exactly when and what it was, but it was an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33963	Let's finally discuss in the Parliament, let's discuss which Rules of Procedure is in force here which has not been published in the National Journal I ask you only or who has been published, which is the Constitution in force in the Republic of Croatia. That shex's consolidated text the Constitutional Court rejected or the old Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Let's not play games!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33964	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic, thank you, colleague. Here's the thing. A colleague named Gjurkovic gave up on the replica. All right. However, what I can read about the club has no right to debate. Does the representative individually have one? There is. ... Comrade Shuker, allow me. [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]] Please like this. ... That's right. [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]] I ask, it will be in the record and I ask that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, be seen on these remarks. We're continuing the debate. The replica was answered by Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33965	Thank you, Vice President. So I'd like to get involved with the replica on that part of your debate at the end of the debate over the second pension column. When we first discussed this reform in '98. It seems to me that it's been an even great debate. At the time, Croatia was not only discussing pension reform, it seems to me that both in Italy and France discussed pension reform with similar bases as Croatia did. And when we introduced this second pension column, therefore the personal capitalised savings required by 5% seemed to work well, since it was the assumption that the annual or two-year rate would increase. But what are we here for? We're still at that 5% in 2013. What's our problem? The problem of two large systems of pension and health care is also a terrible burden on the state budget, and then the consequences are both in health care and in the pension system. But I think one of the better moves would be to reconsider our gross salary. We now have two species... And can I finish my replica? [[You can't hear it.]] Given that we now have one gross from which part of the pension contribution is financed and another gross paying employer could be slightly more easily let's manipulate under quotes if we put it all in one gross. We've been running polemics here for a long time, which is a mandatory health contribution and who has to pay for it. Just part of a pensioner and just an employee? So a lot of things should actually, uh, talk a lot about a lot of things before we even start talking about some new pension reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33966	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33967	Yes, colleague Zgrebec. That's where we agree. After all, my debate went that way. I was just trying to impose something on the debate, which is a big problem for Croatia at the moment. Because if we were to throw out the number of those who are going to have, say, half a pension per new pension and half a pension per old pension, then we would see that there are several hundred thousand insurance companies, and with this withdrawal of 5%, you well know that when it went into retirement reform in 1999 that it was estimated that it was then that by 2012, 2013 it would take place for the second pillar somewhere around 10%. And it was kind of an estimate that these separations were practically half in this first, and half in the second column that it would be something that would be satisfying to say that pensions were as decent as they were. So, I'm just trying to say that a lot of money has been lost in the financial crisis and that we don't have a fourth or fifth group of endangered Croatian pensioners I'd like to say that we need to start talking about it. Or abolishing what we have, all that money back practically to the state budget and reducing the public debt of the Republic of Croatia by 40 billion kuna and bringing a change to the law that all these people are going to retire by law as if they'd spent their whole life paying off as if there were no second pillars or simply seeing what to do with the second pillar of retirement that doesn't happen to us that we're going to have pensioners whose pension will be twice as much as that pension they're going to get on the basis of the first pillar of retirement. So it's a real danger. And someone has to count it and someone has to say it. Because if, therefore, I have said if we do not talk about this our report for both 2012 and 2014, 2015 will be very similar or almost identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33968	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of HDSSB representative Igor Cešek and Zoran Vinkovic, they shared the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33969	I would like to thank the Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the representatives of the Bureau. The report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2011, and today is 2013, is a very comprehensive report sent to the Government in September 2012. And on which the government gave the Parliament's opinion and proposal to take the report into consideration. That expression came to my attention as a negative connotation because it is often used as a proverb. He took note of it, and I proceeded my way. I believe that everything that is going on in Croatia, the government only takes note. What kind of report will be for 2012 will only have the opportunity to see next year, and I am most afraid of the 2013 Reports that it is better not to even see the light of day, of course if these negative trends continue and all points to it. But to return to the very report that really tells us the disastrous trends that continue today, which the government obviously does not recognize. The fact is that this report contains all relevant information that interests the Croatian public, and unfortunately there is no afternoon transfer of the session the general public will not be familiar with this report. Such a good part of this report speaks of the establishment of the institute itself. We know that the institution is governed by the administrative council appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the law. The Office runs a director with its assistants, and the Institute also has its own professional service which is organized in a way that has a central service, a regional service and as the smallest unit but very important because it is actually the first contact with citizens, and that is the outpost. But let's go back to the very data that interests the public the most. In 2011, therefore, there was a continued trend in the growth of the number of pensioners and the decline of the number of insurance companies and 1,213 million pensioners and 1,468 million insurance workers were recorded in the Pension Insurance Office. So the ratio between the two groups was 1 to 1.21, which by 2011 is the lowest ratio and realistically shows which direction the former government was heading. The car went downhill and the citizens punished the country's leadership in the parliamentary elections. Unfortunately, however, no better government has been given to them now. The average pension achieved under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2011 was 2151.12 kuna which was 0.24% less than in 2010 and the average net salary ratio was 39.17% while the same share was 39.17% in 2010. We are witnessing that this share in neighbouring countries is far greater than ours. It's about an amount that can't ensure the survival of the pensioners. They have to settle their obligations neatly, pay for water, electricity, telephone, heating, transportation, and God forbid they have a settled housing issue I don't know what they're dealing with apartment costs with. Unfortunately, we are also witnessing the fact that pensioners from large cities are changing their apartments for smaller apartments so that they can settle their debts and life costs, and it is not a rare case where apartments sell and buy smaller houses or cottages per village to live cheaper and be able to produce food for their needs. Look at these people in the market today, they're making ends meet. They come to the shopkeeper at the end of the day and collect waste. The flesh can only be dreamed and honored for the holidays. And unfortunately, it's about people who've worked for 30, 40 years, built our society, built our economy, filled the state budget, made sure that they paid off their pensions to others to burn on these poor 2,000 kunas today. Unfortunately, they are also joined by a large number of those who are fortunate to work for minimum wage and that army of 375 thousand unemployed. The report shows that on 31 December 2011, a million 468 thousand 133 insurance companies were registered in the office, down by 0.59% compared to 2010, while the number of pensioners increased by 1.01%. If we look at the age structure of the insurance company, we come to the data that 50.96% of the insurance companies are under 40 years old, 22.5% of the insurance companies are over 50 years old and only 26.49% of the insurance companies are represented from 40 to 50 years old. So what I call 'em is intergeneration because after they've done 20 to 30 years of work, there are no jobs left. Indeed, it is a sad thing to do. What I'm also worried about is the huge fall of a craftsman's insurance company. In 2011, 67 thousand 998 craftsmen were registered, with 82 thousand 736 in 2006. So much for stories about the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and the promotion of the development of craftsmanship. We see how successfully we promote craftsmanship so that every year there are fewer. Furthermore, the pension of poor 1500 receives 326 000 pensioners, and the percentage of women who receive such pension is 60%. Unfortunately, it's women who have fewer salaries, with that and pensions. And imagine how they feel about 1,500 kuna pensions. No one told them what a mess they'd have of retirement while they were working with the moss in the now failed textile industries and leaving their health there. How do you stop those black trends? Whether this government has a measure in the area of economy, tax policy, employment policy, whether this government has measures that will encourage the activity of our citizens, measures that will enable the creation of new entrepreneurship initiatives. Only in this way will there be greater revenue in the budget and stability and security of pensions, not only stability and security but in the future and growth of these pensions. So in the following reports we'll see what measures this government is carrying out. I'm afraid the reports will be far more catastrophic than this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33970	Thank you. The HDSSB Club will support this report but does not want to take it into account, as it does not want to take note of this invalid Rules of Procedure either. At least I had 5 in Croatian and literature, and he says, "Right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he signed up to lose the club of representatives whose representative was not present in the hall when he was invited to speak on behalf of the club of representatives." That means that Mr. Jozo Radosh shouldn't talk about this, but since she's here, I won't have her from Djakova so much, I won't be so... Ma'am, read it and you read it very well, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the finale, you have no right. But save me from God's heavy words, really save me the hard words, and also the nonsense and the nonsense, but I'm not talking about the Rules of Procedure. Here Mr. Vukovic spoke of the resurrection, I believe that he also believes that the life of pensioners as we all should believe but it is still a matter of religion, will improve in the Republic of Croatia. But since we've also had an accident, and someone's lucky that we're being led by these two extraordinary governments, those from 2003 to 2012 and these years, that pensioner standard has been falling more and more. And I don't think any of those pensioners are going to see that sunny side of adult life. This sunny side may be turned to his ability to, given that at the height of the average pension in the Republic of Croatia, when I say "retired," I mean both gender pensioners, that's what I'm saying for the sake of gender equality. If they were likely to wait and pray to God for as many sunny days as possible in those winter cold days when the temperature comes below zero, and like this, I would say one socially sensitive government among other things to these same pensioners as the most endangered group of population in the Republic of Croatia makes certain decisions, such as the 25% VAT, such as bread, milk and basic life supplies and raising VAT rates from 0 to 5%, although that is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia on the day of entry into the EU, not 1.1. 2013 So the pensioners who really do not have and almost 70 to 80% of the pensioners in the Republic who lived and lived and created material values in the Republic of Croatia, who created both factories and jobs now that they came to this dark side of the mature age that they did not bring themselves into, who brought them obviously to the communist governments, but also these Croatian ones. They barely make ends meet, and they can't live from 1st to 1st. They barely survive and the statistics show that they barely survive seven days a month. So these are the pensioners that this government has accumulated and electricity by 20% to 30%, and then there's a genius to calculate. calculated spent electricity, necessary power, etc. But that wasn't enough either, so we got to last Easter, so now it's been a year and believe even the HSU parties that many pensioners get up to 40 and 50% more expensive, more expensive payments for natural gas, I don't mention heating in these few cities. And that they really go through them in alternative ways of heating. We can only imagine what kind. I don't have to go far, I have a family, so the father who was here a year and a half ago retired, that pension, he worked 45 years, he was head of the technical inspection station, that pension wasn't enough for a war on electricity and a war on gas. And believe him, come, believe him, that the cowards of joy, that the cowards of joy, that the poor did not save in those 45 years of work, believe that at this moment he and his mother could not survive from the first to the first. In the second category, starting at 19, he wasn't a parliamentary representative. In the second category, they would say that they were not only building Croatian material goods but they were building these good ones around the white world in Germany, Western Europe, which were not exclusively emigrants but were also forced to seek a job by political means where many did not return, they had no luck as actor Gregorevic in that film to enjoy retirement. But they are located in another category where even that pension in the Republic of Croatia is no longer in euro or the former in German marks is not enough to survive. Easter is coming, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. So not all pensioners in the Republic of Croatia were fortunate to have been able to run for some day or ten days or two in the Croatian Parliament or to be presidents of the Assembly so that they could possibly even run for some other things but in any case for this Easter absolutely without the help of local and regional self-government they won't be able to cook even the one at the downturning of a roll-up shoulder or as it's already called or bought ten eggs, I don't want to paint those who don't now celebrate Easter that we understand each other right now, but Easter is one of the biggest and state holidays in the Republic and possibly the biggest know me, Mrs Turina. Don't let me tell you what an elemental accident is. [[Upadica Batinić: Time of fellow Vinkovic.]] I'm finishing up, Mr. President. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Vice President, who knows you might be and the president just warn your clubmate not to throw it away because this isn't a strip club, it's a council. [[Intruder Batinić: Vice President.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33971	You've got ten seconds left. Thank you. We have reported four replicas. The first one came from Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I didn't mean to report because now, in the morning, I've talked about the problems of children with developmental difficulties, of course, for people with disabilities, but for sure the pensioners in the work are taking a significant place because many have exceptional health problems and I want to, and you encouraged me to have a colleague from your point of view, the material condition of the pensioners. Indeed, where you talked about all the costs, the standard of a simple pensioner, about all the costs they have to pay from the food that's being said by the way is 5% higher than the electricity that's 20% higher than the gas 29%, the heating and all the other charges that they're simply not able to do. And what's happening now, they have to move out of their apartments, they have to change apartments that nobody buys or changes. That's the first one. And the other or go eventually to your client, because we're a caring people, our pensioners have been caring for years, they've built a client, a cottage, and they go there. And what's going on there with the spell? There's no end to problems either. There's no end to problems either. He's got this client, I come from one area that has the tradition of these clients, Goric and he's got to legalize it now and you know how much for 30,000 kunas. They calculated my pensioners there in Podravina, 30,000 kuna. Calculated, he can't help it from where? What's left? It's nothing but a bogeyman. And then I wonder what under these circumstances has to say the Retired Party is so committed to the material sign. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33973	Your time is up. But for 30 thousand kuna, then it's a basement over 100 squares. Here you go, pal, Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33974	And that my colleague thanks you for the replica and I sign everything you said because the fact that if you watch a little bit, you can find very often in the ads that very pensioners insist on changing their apartments and there are practically they are valued because the sale of apartments doesn't go to the Republic of Croatia today as nothing goes to the Republic of Croatia today, so neither does the sale of apartments. However, they are forced simply to change those apartments so it is not rare for some 30 - square - square apartment to be replaced by a 189 - square apartment and receive a fee of 5.6,000 kuna, but they are also happy because they can extend their lives for another few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33975	Thank you, too. We have the following three replicas for the presentation of colleagues Vinkovic. Silvano Hrelja picked up first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33976	Well, dear colleague Vinkovic, I know you like to tell the truth here, and what I noticed from your speech is that I disagree with some facts. Namely, if your esteemed father worked 45 years and he was station chief, then if he had the lowest pension, then he should have 2665 kuna and that's much more than a war of electricity. I think that's the way it is. And as head of the station, he must have had more than a mediocre salary, so that's still 3,000 kuna. I like to speak argumentarily. I'd like you all to know that at least the lowest pension is calculated, how the average pension is calculated and that we know because we're discussing an institution that covers the pension insurance system. There's solidarity in the pension insurance system, there's solidarity, there's reciprocity, but nothing can come to mind. This must be covered either by law or by payment of a special regulation or by payment of a contribution. That's why I'd like to always let you and I argue with a high-level mind rather than get our arguments out of your sleeves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33977	Thank you, too. We have a colleague Vinkovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33978	The fact that I'd like Mr. Hrelja to explain, for example. People haven't built houses in 24 squares before. They're already houses that have 200 square meters, you have a ground floor, you have a loft neatly with a building permit paid and it doesn't even have to legalize anything, so if you take it, now it's about 4,5 kuna cubes, so if you calculate its energy value, then you'll see that those three thousand aren't enough for that 12 month, and you can say that all the radiators in that house are shut down to cover themselves. ... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a natural gas that's not this heat-heating that you've collected, or not you, but HERA, so this government took responsibility by transferring the ball to HERA. So now we can expect HERA to be against the government's decision, while at the same time ingesting certain things. I apologize for what I said about a particular club but in any case it might be better than to tell my father now that there's this part for 1600 kuna that's open even to pensioners if he didn't work in his profession and send an email to the Ministry of Economy and that he normally informs the authorities so he might get it. As for the Rules of Procedure, let us take our minds and work in that rules of procedure that is valid, and that is true for me, and also for all other colleagues and colleagues, and not for home education.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33979	Thanks, buddy. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, it's more or less clear. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33980	Thank you very much. You have rightly asked your colleague Vinkovic who cares about the pensioners today and in what way you have also set an example of your own father who, after so many years of work experience, came into the situation so that he can whine and ask who will help me, but you also said that he did 45 years thanks to some savings but also to children, etc. Today, however, pensioners somehow scrape the end from the end of the month to the moon. And who's going to help them? Will the Retirement Office help them? Will this government, the Retirement Party, which always appears from the election to the elections that is simple in 2009, say we interpreted crisis taxes as skin-pulling to pensioners, and all of these measures of this 20% of electricity, 23% of gas, gas from 9.5 to 10.89 or what I know that everything has not accumulated plus these immoral exploits that take away their entire pensions at FINA is simply interpreted as not tearing skin but as something that is welcome and in favour of these pensioners because they can simply survive and thus survive, regardless of what they will now become again a very interesting body they choose, especially in some cities, they have a very high share of turnout and choose mayors, mayors, etc. And so it's going to be what my colleague Schucker was saying until the stability of this pension system is achieved, and until every government starts from scratch, it does what it means to be popular and it has nothing to do with everyday life.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33981	Thank you. We have an answer. Here's my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33982	I thank my colleague, Boric. I'm not going to have one, but I'm not going to read it, it's not on the clock right now. But I said, but I don't want to go far from my family, and that's how we're public, and I said that if he hadn't been saving all those years, he'd be corning now, and he wouldn't be corning, screaming out of pain. He even had a good salary. But what about these pensioners who had that minimum wage that had something less than, they weren't all MPs and ministers. Mr. Hrelja tells me I'm the mayor, so let me sort this out. So he could've been a minister, so he could've taken responsibility. On the other hand, not wanting to replicate to Mr. Hrelja right now, I want to point to this problem. I would also like to point out that many units of local self-government do not have the possibility, and that is a great pity that the mayors of the council then must give the pensioners of the Easter and Christmas Day either 100 kuna or 1000 kuna, depending on. No, I'm not. I'm giving up 12 years. Not at the request of HSU, but because I can see that these people can't live and so simply that either Christmas or Easter at least eat meat and eggs because how you run no Peace Fund, but this country will soon be neither meat nor eggs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33983	Thank you. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate here, you mentioned a group of pensioners who were not neglectful and who were not here in a report by colleagues Vukovic, and these were those who had to leave their hearths by force of the 1960s and went out for a few years, and unfortunately they had been through the entire working century, and these people were doing Austria, Germany, Switzerland, some of them went overseas, they had decent profits, some of these people had thousands of stamps at the time, or several thousand euros now, and they were creating purely decent pensions. When a income tax law was introduced in Croatia, it was said that pensions below 3500 kuna would not be taxed, you know why, because sometimes in that socialist gross salary account, there was also a pension contribution on which taxes were charged, and so that solidity part that was paid in it was already paid tax, so there is no need to pay now on pension. These foreign pensions were exempt from paying taxes for the simple reason that all these people were getting those pensions somewhere at the expense of Austria or Germany at the time of the amendment of the Income Tax Act I think it was '95. In the years, they have all practically rerouted these documents to Croatia. Today, the Income Tax Act defines these pensions as paying taxes. To be honest, you do not have a clear guidance from the tax administration today whether these people are liable or not to be subject to a tax application because most of these people have several years of internships, this best colleague Vukovic also knows in the area of the former Yugoslavia they have pensions of several hundred kunas, but they have pensions outside which are thousands and more kunas. No one today can tell them whether they owe them a tax return, no one, and no one here is talking about them. They don't matter, it's important that the government says they won't give an opinion because someone didn't write how many special children's allowances have been solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33985	Thank you. We have an answer. Here's my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33986	Well, I'm not going away from my family again. Now I and rest her soul dead, my grandmother worked 33 years in Stuttgart, my mother never met her father because he was the one with the U-head who went missing in '45. in Bleiburg. Many of these representatives are likely to have such fates, many fathers worked in Germany, bought houses, apartments, and so on. It's just like my late grandmother bought me a house, and believe me, she'd be hooking up today, no matter what she did and doing her working fair and square career in the Federal Republic of Germany, but she'd be getting to this point. And she learned to probably save more than us all together in Croatia because she fought for a better life here to help her grandkids, but she would have been touched by God we and this 25% VAT, that neither Sulejman had, Shuker had a hack, and this I don't know what it is. These prices of bread, milk, meat, the drop in economic production, the drop in GDP, the increase in electricity prices, gas, heating and any other innovations we get from this government called the Government of the non-existent plan 21 or Kukuriku or Kukula.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33987	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33988	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Listening to colleagues, actually discussing colleagues who were talking about the client, about legalization, about the garrisoniers and about asking God why not, believe that I was going back to where we were at all point today. I was actually coming back that we, we have in front of us a report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2011. I take it as a report from the institution, an institution which is the foundation of the security of the citizens of Croatia. The report discusses the situation in 2011, i.e. on key issues, whether the system fulfils its obligations. That's how I understand this report. And from that you can actually see this, I'm going to repeat some of the data that my colleagues have already said before me, which is that the number of insurance companies has been reduced, that there is an increase in the number of pensioners, which is one very negative trend, that only 12% of pensions have gone full-time, that expenditures have increased in the last 10 years 50%, which is of course very bad and of these expenditures 98% goes to pensions, so for employees only 1.3% goes. You mentioned a cheap service and of course there is a problem in medical skill, because of course on such low wages, you normally have a lack of staff that is of course needed. The worrying trends are certainly, however, there are probably more important problems in the pension system, but pointing to this problem that I'm about to talk about, and I'm talking about it from talking to pensioners, I'm going to say that this problem that I'm going to be talking about is necessary because another piece of evidence is that we need to integrate as quickly and more successfully as possible and network state services and their databases. This step is immeasurably necessary, and once we achieve it, it will certainly be a more quality service to the citizens, and the system will become more efficient and efficient within itself as well as towards the outside. Within the parent records system, there is a problem that pensioners face on a daily basis, which is that they are actually facing recognition of unpaid internships. I have learned from the conversations with your employees that the records used by the trade court have not been updated and that companies do not work for years and are being kept active in the Commercial Court. You have cases like that. The consequence of this phenomenon is that the internship is recognised by workers despite the fact that the paid contributions are not behind it. Now look at which country can actually pay inadequately obtained rights. Of course, this problem is implicitly solved by the demands that payment of salaries is actually possible only with the payment of contributions but it is extremely important to stress that we must work on just that kind of urgency of all our state services and their integration. In this case, the Peace Service is focused here because for its modern and efficient work it is necessary to connect but in real time with the Tax Administration, health and other systems necessary for their work. And one more question. I'm curious to know what the situation is in the mutual recognitions of the foreign standing, what the ratio is, is it balanced. Whether we are in a plus or a minus to other countries in the region and if we are in a minus way to make up for it. And today, colleagues have mentioned very often local self-government, a relationship with pensioners. I'll give you our example. We started the Retirement Council. The centzus that we charge for those 200 kunas means the standard that local self-government can give to its third-age citizens is 1800 kuna. We did a survey through that Council of Retired and the poorest because we got what we were giving an even higher amount. Here is also an example of how local self-government can act on increasing the standards of pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33989	Thank you. We have a single replica reported by Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33990	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleagues, Shimac-Bonacic, I was talking about clients and legalization, not because I don't have a client, not because I'm drinking, but because here in this topic I wanted to point out the problems our pensioners face in their hereafter difficulties, material difficulties that are more than obvious. They just don't have the means to live in apartments let's say we keep on talking, these costs settle down so I don't repeat what I said. And for many years, they've been sparring, saving like Vinkovic's father to have some savings so he wouldn't be corning now. Many have invested in something, and in Podravina we have invested in these clients, in the mountains, etc. And now they're kind of forced and they've made a certain comfort of thank God and now they're forced to go to those pliers of their own, bitter, there eventually to live there. However, how when they have to legalize it, they legalize at a price that is very, very high. Unlike our Hungarian neighbours who have the same tradition of these clients where there are 100 euros, 100 euros costs one such legalisation. And what did they do? Now they've filed a lawsuit with the Constitutional Court. I therefore warn of this moment for economic reasons, and on the other hand to encourage the Croatian Party of Retired to defend so much the severe right of pensioners that in that part it contributes to these poor pensioners in such a way not in any way that their standard is not further broken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33991	Thank you, too. If you don't think the client should be legalized in this context for the pensioners? ... For the retired, yeah, good. [[You can't hear Milinkovic.]] Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33992	Thank you very much. Well, everyone's colleague has their own life story for sure, and no one has said that our pensioners are good and certainly negative trends that are a relationship with the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners who are very negative and the negative trend is unfavorably affecting the state of pensioners. But I'm telling you today I'm talking about this institution's report and we're talking about the 11th year relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33993	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Josip Boric, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33994	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I will try briefly in my debate a little something to say about this report by the Pension Insurance Office. I accept it, and I take it into consideration as our government does. I don't know why that was. If this was because they had to be replaced in order to come new, each government has the right to legitimately. So I personally consider it a good display, because it's really detailed in many segments and helps even in the debate but also about understanding the reality of the moment it lives. However, it is only a statistical reality. Nor is everything as it says within these figures that are often and average, not exact someone has more, someone less than these averages. But there is this everyday reality that we are talking about here today from the assembly benches, and that reality says that Croatian pensioners today are under one press and press of the current government no matter what anyone is talking about on the part of the ruling. Because the fact is that the representatives of these pensioners in the Parliament did not stand in the way of some measures that further impoverished them and made their daily lives more difficult, and we heard what this was about. It is not possible to collect food for 25% VAT or 5% VAT 7 months before the deadline for bread and milk, but also some other supplies do not affect their standard. It is not true that it collects energy, electricity, heating and everything else that goes into that segment does not affect their daily life. It's affecting because their cost of gentlemen increased in 2012, and pensions remained the same or let's say in the same form as they started with some little harmonisation. We often get interpretations here, so we give them, we coordinate, we give them 10, 20 kuna. We never hear from the authorities how much we took from them. This simply cannot be established because it does not want to be established. And I argue responsibly because we all have a pensioner or in our family or in the near middle that they are harder and they have less than they were in 2011. That's why I'm also warning that their representatives here in the Parliament that they obviously believed are not ready to stand in the way because the challenge of calling them a chair was stronger than that care for the pensioners. And that's the same legitimate thing, but here comes another election now, so the other right away within a month will probably make these pensioners back to being the ones everyone's gonna worry about for at least one to two months through promises in local, regional budgets, etc., etc. But everyone has the right and their representatives to do what they do, but in 2009, I repeat for only 3% of the crisis tax that applied not to everything but to 300 thousand pensioners it's estimated as tearing the skin out of pensioners. These are facts, and the attack was felt by the then I think Minister of Finance Mr. Shucker. But good. Now about the report, I said it was a statistical display, so I'm going to get some of those numbers. Today we have a million and 213 thousand pensioners, this is for 2011, and a million and 468 thousand insurance companies. Same number of insurance companies as in 1997. The insurance and pensioner ratio went down in 15 years with 1.59 in '97. at 1.21 2011. When we next year or perhaps discuss these 2012 Reports, the number of insurance companies will be reduced by another 60 thousand which ended in the past year at the Employment Bureau, and one part will certainly increase, i.e. Retirement number. So this historically lowest relationship of 1.21 in 2012 will certainly fall even lower. These are the facts that warn and the bells ring for the alarm because the system comes really in a difficult sustainability phase because we see from the report that it is difficult to collect what has to be collected, and even more difficult to bridge what needs to be obtained from the state budget. We have the highest pensioners at the age of 65 and upwards. One piece, 18%, between 70 and 74 years old. I will look back a little on users under favourable conditions, a total of 172, of which are Croatian defenders who, under special law, are entitled to a pension of 70,000 and 411, which cost us some 4,5 billion kuna annually. So I'm going to list both parliamentary representatives and former members of the government who have exercised the right to so-called. "privileged" let's say or "retirement" under special conditions that have often been the subject of debate here, and it's 540 people in the past 20 years that cost us 54 million kuna a year, let's say here somewhere a year. It was the battle of all battles at the beginning of the term of office, remember, when the famous undeserved special or privileged pension was to be abolished. It's just that we're having a relationship. However, we have here and members of the former JNA Army, ten thousand 117 who are receiving a pension, I don't want to make a difference between people every radio where he could and wanted to, which cost us annually about 360 million kuna, and then we have participants in the national liberation war of 33 thousand and 806 for 2011, which cost us about a billion and 100 million kuna a year on the average of this pension. It's an interesting topic that often pulls the same thing here. I'd like the representatives of this Retirement Office to tell us what these pensions are about. I tried to find it in statistics, and that's the 2011 census of people over 90, only 13,000 in the Republic of Croatia. To tell us clearly whether it's the heirs, okay, the nearest or narrowest part of the family, or if it's really the data. Who does this data refer to? Because if you were involved in a war, you'd be 18 today, so you're '41. You were 18 years old. You had to be born in 1923. You'd be 97 today. If it was just those who were just born, you don't fit into this segment at all. So I'd really like to see how this kind of statistics happened just to clear up this story here and that it's not being abused because it's really only been since the end of the war of 67 years since the end of '45. A year. Unfortunately, I say, here we have an announcement these days that our future pensioners will be working until the age of 67. Someone rightly said it was a program from work either from work or from a work system to a cemetery. We see that the average retirement rate is between 16 and 17 years old. The Croats can say with the help of the good of our health system, still, live long enough and it is good to be longer and longer, but the facts tell us in some segments, and especially this sustainability of this pension system as it is a little defunct. Here, I wanted so much clean to say what I already thought I should say because really these groups of people are in one difficult situation today, and unfortunately they don't have any help from those who expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33995	Thank you. We have a single replica reported, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33996	Dear fellow Boric, it is very interesting to listen to your debate and debate about times that you are not a participant, and also about the topic that is not the area of your narrow interest, at least so far you have not shown and therefore must intervene and will tell you that there was only one government that took the pensioners' money and that from 1994 to 1998 because the pension was due, because the legal basis for the payment of pensions was one, and it was paid for by the government, which was lower, by 40%, on the basis of a regulation that was passed during that period by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's the one and only time someone's taken something past the law. Nor did your government take anything in 2009, but she didn't give. And it's not true that we left the coalition because of 3% of the troops, but because of the 3% of the troops that hit 300 thousand people and the freezing of pensions. That's two important reasons why in the next 30 months, there's a minus, or a 10% pension standard drop, if we're going to talk to the arguments, if we're going to tell the truth. And in the rest, we are the political parliamentary party that is the third time in our term, please don't give us advice when we leave, and how much we will, and where, and who we will be with, and how we will realize our goals. We're a small party fighting for survival among lions, I guess I gave you a compliment now, and simply in these circumstances you need to protect the pensioners in the best possible way. Also for your 2009 term, you have not allowed all prices to rise, but the cost of living has increased, and pensions have not followed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33997	Thank you. We have an answer, fellow Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33998	Thank you very much. I don't want to teach you what you're going to do and how you're going to do. I'm just saying that you pensioners have now been left in the cleaners and that they're paying for everything this government is giving them. If a government is at some point when, let's say, it fought for state independence and everything we've all been through, it took something away, then it's in a different and similar form, regardless of what some previous transitional government in 2000-2003 claimed to have no debt, then that government has paid back that debt and it's somewhere around 14 billion kuna and still returns it now and this current government. And those are the facts. And as for the haraks and the crisis tax, that was also the reason because it's written here and it can't be deleted, it says in your statement why you're coming out of the coalition at the time, that's the 7th month of 2009. And you said you were going out because 3% of the pensioner's skin was yelling, and I compared those 3% to what we have today in my debate. I claim that today, the press and the press are stronger on their personal home budgets that they receive through pensions are much larger than 3 percent, and it wasn't even 3%, but 2 and 4% if we're going to be very argumentative and true, and not for everyone, but for 300 thousand pensioners. And the fact that you can't fight within this government for any of their rights or relief shows your strength and everything that's going on outside, and that's the perception of those who are going to go first tomorrow, and then say what they think about such a stand for their rights. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u33999	Thank you, too. We continue the debate, Jose Radosh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34000	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, let's set up coordinates where, within which we move, it'll be clear what retirement can be expected and what can't be expected. In fact, pensions with about 35 billion kuna per year and government debt with about 28 billion kuna per year account for 63 billion kuna and nearly half of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. And how are you going to change this trend, these relationships, and how long will it take for these relationships to change? So it's 63 billion kuna per year of public money, and in order to bring these relations into acceptable relations with the budget and gross social product, you probably need ten years of very difficult and very successful work. This is what is the fruit of pension policy, and economic policy, and of this country's administrative policies for the last twenty years and of course it is known who is the greatest responsibility in this regard. The data that today is the average pension of 39.17% is also only conditional because here it is nice to say that the ratio of the average retirement rate most often considered as an old pension, the average pension according to the average salary is 58.65%. So, the collapse of this percentage by 39.17% is all those non-expected peace pensions. And, of course, a desirable pension is just an old-age pension. So it's a 20-percent crash. And if that were not the case and if that percentage were smaller then it would be much easier to maintain the RH pension system and it would be much easier to fix it. Under these circumstances repairing this system will last as long as the deep problem of this system, and this is almost half of the state budget along with debt. And part of that 16 billion kuna debt annually goes to these same pensions, and only when you have that information do you actually know how deep the problem is, and then you can know how difficult this problem can be solved, by the way, and who is responsible for such relations. Because such relationships can't be created in one year, not for two, not for three, but for the creation of such relationships takes twenty and more years. Of course, there are also some negativeities of the pension system that we inherited from 90 years ago but for most of the conditions in the pension system we are responsible for ourselves, i.e. the Croatian Governments have been responsible for the last 20 years. So only 12% of the pensioners, as was said here, and as reported in the report, have a full retirement period. And that hides the answers to a lot of questions. If you look at the increase in the number of disability pensions, which are the majority of pensions that are the result of the pensions of Croatian military disabled people, then you have 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009. And in 2010 15 years after the war, you have a drastic growth in the number of these pensioners, and in 2008 and 2009, almost ten thousand annual inflows of such pensioners, and that in 2000 they are likely to regularize some kind of inflow of these pensioners is about three thousand. So 6 thousand such pensioners came annually in those years, 2008 and 2009 and this trend of growth slowly ends in 2010 to return to some normal number in 2011. And there is a number of some 30 to 40 thousand disability pensions, mostly young pensioners, and as you can see from the data that we have the average pension of such pensioners is 4914 kuna and the average retirement pension in Croatia is 2362 kuna means more than double the pension. And, of course, these people who are receiving this first pension are just younger and they're going to be burdening the pension system for a lot of years, and that's why it's hard to expect some important shifts in that system. Here, in the government's opinion, it is said that pensions for members of the Croatian Council have not been paid in 2006, 2007 and 2008. It is only said that 29 million kuna was paid in 2006 but according to the estimates of the Ministry of Finance, the debt that the Republic of Croatia has according to that group of pensioners is based on an interstate contract and that money has to be paid again and that money is left to pay again to pay for it by someone else after it and should be kept in mind the same thing. Of course, all these things including that pensions are not coordinated as it says here in 2010 and 2011 are waiting for someone again. Again, it's a job that someone was supposed to do, he didn't do it for these or those reasons, keeping the budget, and then he left that job that needs to be done again to someone else, and it's all of course what we're going to meet, probably in the 2012 report. Otherwise, HDZ colleagues are very voluntary to receive these reports for 2011 and 2010, not only this report but all reports, but of course it is not their political position. When they are reports for 2012 whether there will be the same reports or even better reports then it will be trees and stones on these reports and then of course we can expect it. But what can we do under these circumstances? The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has submitted a correct report. We've got the data, we've got a good scoreboard. They can't, of course, suggest measures on how this one, how it's going to fix it. This is, of course, the government's jurisdiction, i.e. the fruit of not only pension policy but also economic policy, and therefore, colleagues from the HDSSB speak about how, as counterpart of the Czech Republic said, that pensioners can only dream of meat, but this is not just a matter of pensions, it is a question of the destroyed economy of this country, especially the destroyed economy of Slavonia and Baranja, and we know who is responsible for the destruction of the economy. It's not just a matter of pensions, it's a matter of general policy. The tragic situation is that this is so and of course it is logical that the opposition warns about it, but it is not a matter of pension system, but it is a matter of the overall policy, i.e. in a narrow part of the overall economic policy, and it is known who has led the policy in Slavonia and Baranja for the past 20 years, who has managed and concerned the HDSSB of course. So, on the basis of all of this, colleagues and colleagues, of course, this report should be taken into account, but of course the debate on these issues in the 2012 report is much more interesting because of the changed expected position of the HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34001	Thank you, too. We have reported four replicas. First is Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34002	My fellow Rados, I am sorry that you have been very rarely in this assembly and have not listened to my debate. If you'd listened to my argument, you'd never have said what you just said. But it's yours. But it's very interesting how you like to throw numbers, 35 billion is an integral part of the expenditure side of the budget that account for a deficit of 10 or 11 billion kuna and that's a minus that's funded by the association. Since you've come to 28 billion, it's only known to you and it's just some kind of your mathematics as well as a lot of the facts that you've unfortunately said here that aren't justified. But if you listened to the debate then I said the same report if you do not change your pension policy will be for 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. Then I don't understand how anyone can talk now or something. But when there is no solution then someone else is accused but I repeat these 63 billion you invented the same as you invented about the amount of pensions for members of the Homeland War. Well, you as former defence minister would least expect a man to object to something that is the law. If you feel that the level of pension given to members of the Homeland War is changing the rights of Croatian defenders or increasing or reducing 45% because it is not something that is confused. And another thing, fellow Rados, is not correct to say that not indexing pensions in 2010, 2011 will pay someone else because it is not an obligation. The law was passed that there was no indexation, therefore there is no obligation. And don't, you're the one who fooled the Croatian public because the HDZ club has been correctly discussing the facts, as well as in the final word we'll deal with some things, although we asked HZMO representatives for and suggested that some tables agree differently and set up in the next report that it would be much clearer for everyone because I don't think this is a subject to be politicized on, and you are unfortunately where the exact facts are the exact indicators of politics is 63 billion no minus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34003	Thank you. We have a colleague Radosh's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34004	So it doesn't make sense when someone tells someone that they're not telling the truth that they're not telling the truth because it just leaves the impression that they're telling each other that they're not telling the truth, but I have to tell what's true though. I am often in the Croatian Assembly, and I listened to what you said and everything I said is true. I said that the government debt is therefore what Croatia pays annually on behalf of interest and on behalf of the principal 18.5 plus 9.5 billion kuna, which is 28 billion kuna. ... Croatia pays off, of course, and this year 2013 Croatia will pay 28 billion euros on behalf of the principal and interest, I said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I just wanted to say 28 billion kuna, and that money with these 35 billion is 63 billion kuna, which is about the difficulties we're in, that's what I said, and that's the truth. As far as this data is concerned, all official HZMO data. I spoke naturally in the context of HZMO's burden on some other political aspects of this issue, of course, can be discussed, but first of all, it is logical to see what is the picture of the state of our pension system so that it can be metrically discussed. That's what I listed, and every piece of information I listed is accurate and resting on HZMO's information.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34005	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34006	Thank you very much. So here's my colleague, Rados, you've been wondering in your presentation how the trend will change where these 45 billion commitments will simply be paid off more easily every year. And the second question is who will be doing the indexation for 2010, and 2011. How do you even change your trend? Here I had the opportunity to listen to the Minister of Labour of Mrsic, who said that two million people should work in Croatia, so we must have two million insurance companies to ensure that the system is sustainable on this number of pensioners. So the solution is visible what we clearly need 550,000 new jobs and the system will become sustainable. But it's not a problem what's said but what's done, and the trend in that part of what's done is the other way around. The number of insurance companies is reduced only in the last year 60 thousand less insurance than a year ago. So now we don't need 550, but 620 thousand new jobs to even talk about the sustainability of this system. If it goes on like this, and it's near the number of 400,000, of course, that every year we're going to need more and more to keep that system sustainable. The only solution is that we have these days going from the Ministry of Economy, e-mails if you might be alike, maybe we should send something to the pensioners and help them achieve that goal of 2 million new jobs because the other of this government is hard to expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34007	Thank you, and we have an answer from my colleague, Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34008	My colleague, Boric, is the number of insurance workers, and this relationship has been reduced continuously for the last 8 years by the government of the party you belong to. This report is for 2011, the year in which the party you belong ruled and when the lowest rate of that relationship occurred, and of course when I took a picture of the situation that the government in that system so the depth of the problem then it is logical that it can't be expected that some significant change takes place within a year, two or three days. But any government regardless of the external circumstances that doesn't change that trend in eight years like you didn't do will be held accountable. So for now, there's a raise on you. Your forecasts will be the 2013 report we'll see about that. It may be your desire to make it so, but I hope it won't be so special it won't be in those reports that will refer to the end of this government's term. As far as indexation is concerned, so did counterpart Schucker, indexation is not a legal obligation but is part of a political obligation. You said earlier that it was not a legal obligation whether or not it was a legal obligation you did not carry out that indexation and someone should implement it because it is important according to the pensioner's standard whether it was written in law or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34009	Thank you. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go. Comrade Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34010	There's probably this one, you want to stop my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34011	Please stop the time. Comrade Vinkovic, here you go. We'll begin the countdown.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34012	I mean if you already want Reuters to stop. Well, there's a lot of truth in these figures that my colleague, Radosh, has, indeed, the truth and finally, and we have to admit that we're in charge like Greece, and maybe more than Greece. On the other hand, I'm going to look back on this statement which is responsible for the state of the economy in Slavonia and Baranja. I think we can agree with my colleague, Radosh, that it's a '92 conversion and privatisation. In '93, and even she announced a revision of the conversion and privatisation where no one who sinned, I don't know if he was wrong but I believe that, that there was a thief, however, none of that conversion and privatisation, and this was also shown by that State Audit Office, Ms. Šima Krasic. There were some little games like that, immoral shops, but no one went to jail. No one ever went to jail. And that government in 2000-2003, and the hand on the heart I truly believed, she announced this revision of the conversion and privatisation that had never been made, and that government fell among other things because the citizens expected someone to end up in prison because of the destruction of several hundred thousand jobs. Now, which is why you're accusing the HDSSB I don't know, but I would also say then that I'm quite certain that the bankruptcy of Köning will not be blamed for the HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34013	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34014	So, colleague Vinkovic, the revision of conversion and privatisation was carried out. The State Audit Office has repeatedly submitted to the Croatian Assembly every year a review of privatisation and conversion of all companies with indications of special groups of companies privatised by law, which are privatised by the basis of the law but the privatisation has been unsuccessful and those privatised against the law. The State Audit Office also submitted this to the Croatian Assembly and these reports were sent to the State's attorneys for full review of privatisation and conversion. And it's true, as you say, that nothing happened after that, unfortunately, but you can't say that this audit hasn't been carried out and that the government hasn't done it since 2000-2003. The fact that it did not get the right word as I would wish that those who have ruined businesses and in doing the conversion in an illegal manner bear responsibility, that is a slightly wider issue, is obviously linked to the judicial system of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34015	Thank you. And the last replica, Igor Chesek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34016	Thank you very much. My colleague Radoš, so my colleague Vinkovic partially replicated what I was intending to replicate. I think it is known who destroyed it, i.e. who destroyed the Croatian economy, but unfortunately the citizens in the last parliamentary elections believed they knew who would run it, but they were wrong. What you did while we were talking, you mentioned that meat yourself, what you did to make the citizens have that meat. You did not lift the VAT rate or reduce it to meat, you reduced the VAT rate to luxury products, to fur coat, you introduced the VAT rate to bread and milk. So all this 15 months you've been doing is not good for the benefit of Croatian citizens, it's not going anywhere. What your economy minister says, a public statement gives, no one in their right mind wants to invest in Croatia or live in Croatia. This is not how you rule, not even a tavern, let alone a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34017	We have a response to the replica. Comrade Radosh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34018	A fellow Czech, so it would be good if it didn't have to increase the VAT rate, it would have been very good. Any government that is responsible for the mandate it has received and who wants to raise the standard of its citizens, and that should be used by anyone who wants to start an economy, should do the same, of course not raise the VAT. This government only did so because it was the only way to keep the country's budget and pay it off if you want a pension. The question of success and economic momentum, this is just one side, one part of the story about the economic difficulties in which this country is in, 20 supermen in 10 years would not achieve what you expect this government to achieve in a year, but this government, despite the difficult circumstances in which it is not successful, so let's give it more opportunities in view of the depth of the crisis we are in, and it will be held accountable, but then, when the time comes. Until then, of course, I should be rooting for this government and, of course, as a representative and as a member of the CNS and as a member of the ruling coalition, I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34019	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted the applicants for an individual debate. Final word on behalf of the club, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34020	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I am sorry that we did not discuss this item on the agenda last year because it would be nice to congratulate the Croatian Pension Insurance Office for Croatian phenomena last year, for Croatian society a rare jubilee. In fact, last year they marked the 90th anniversary of their work. This is a very rare case for Croatians that one institution is sailing through the fourth state and taking care of the social security of its citizens. So I think we should start with that story and start discussing one public institution, one institution that is not a state institution, about one institution built by the workers of this state in all generations. The workers of this country in all generations and in all systems that have allocated part of their pay for their safety at age. And instead of discussing the financial sustainability of the system here, we can only talk about the financial sustainability of generation solidarity of the first pillar called pension insurance. And we can't just discuss financial sustainability. Why can we not discuss only and exclusively from the position of financial sustainability of this system? Because this is primarily a legal issue and a political issue. In the 90 years of his existence, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has been in plus for 70 years, with more admissions than pension payments. There were 8 insurance companies on one pensioner, so there were six, so before the last war, there were three persons employed by one pensioner before their independence. And for 70 years this public institution or whatever status it has in the previous states has built this society. Huge property, buildings, headquarters of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute throughout Croatia. They gave very favourable loans to businesses, gave loans to institutions, for professional rehabilitation and training of disabled people. They gave loans to the economy, built retirement homes, built resorts, huge housing funds. People my 70 years did it! For the past 20 years, not only because of the relationship between workers and pensioners, insurance and pensioners, but also because all policies have exerted political influence on generation solidarity, pension insurance and have entered into the system what is not covered by contributions from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute cannot pay out pensions. He's down by a thousand, I'm sorry, in 1999, he had to be in debt every month to pay off his pensions. In 2000, the payment of pensions, i.e. the payment of contributions, entered the Treasury. Well, in 2002, I'm sorry, but in that term. Okay. It's true. For two more years, they struggled to raise their loans to pay for pensions and to pay interest. And the state has benefited from it, has a higher budget insolvency because contributions come, contributions are paid, not all are paid on the same day. And don't tell me that 20 billion contributions a year to the state budget is meaningless? ... Oh, don't tell me that the 20 billion contributions of the workers of this Republic to the state budget are insignificant and that's the cost. [[You can't hear it.]] The workers are funding their fellow pensioners. So we've got live labor transfers to past work. Let's not talk state feeds pensioners. Workers provide 2/3 of their contributions for pension payments So we can talk about this very much. [[Invader Batinić: Time of fellow Hrelja.]] I'm bringing this debate to an end. Unfortunately, I couldn't use those 15 minutes. There is a lot to talk about the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and I think that we should deal with how much it is at the service of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to pensioners and whether and whether the impact of politics on the work of the Croatian Pensions Institute is and how much it is not to put into the system everything and everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34021	Thank you too, Mr. Hrelja. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna take the chance to congratulate you on your 55th birthday as far as I know. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Hrelja: You have good statistics I must admit.]] And finally on behalf of the HDZ Club, Ivan Schuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vukovic with his associates. Well, just because of what Mr. Hrelja was saying, I answered the final word because I already started that topic when I first spoke for the club. So when you're throwing away this kind of incorrect data, then you come up with what you're coming up with. First, the pension payment starts if I'm not wrong on the fifth and lasts until the 19th. And in that period, given that in the same period and payment of salaries, the state starts with the 5th MuP and ends up there on the 10th short term, it has to be ordered to, in order to supply the funds, actually to pay the pension from the Treasury as they are. But what's the real problem with the pension system, and until we do, we honestly don't look at it from the point of view of the profession of exact indicators, so far we're going to be politically bickering. So we raise 19 and something else a billion, pay 36 billion. And definitely minus the pension system is 16 and a half billion. And why did I say and beg my retired colleagues that this plate on page 48 should be changed? For the simple reason that he writes here the pensions of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War says that it is a donation from the budget of 4 billion and 800. That's just not true. These people worked, paid pensions like all the employees in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, some suffered in the Homeland War, got disability, and then they got a pension. The HDZ government also said that when they retire, participants in the Homeland War should not have a pension of less than 45% of the average salary. It was our position, our relationship, that we suggested in this House and it was adopted. If anyone thinks it shouldn't be that way, let them change it. But these people used to pay pension insurance during their internship. So these people are not Croatian defenders' pensions are not people who don't have working days. Only one supplement can stand here that is based on a special law to finance it from the state budget, not the full amount. And that's our delusion and it's not fair to the defenders. It is not correct for Croatian defenders because they did not go to the Homeland War to realize this. Unfortunately, some were killed. And do you think they don't need that disability to give them a higher pension so they can live a normal life? Do you also think that many Croatian defenders who went to war, returned after the war to companies who had disappeared or could not get some normal job, had some small salary and do you really think it is not correct that we in this House suggested that the pension of Croatian defenders could not be less than 45% of the salary? But then we can't say and put them in a group of people like they never used to pay for retirement insurance. They were paying and they, on that basis, have the right to pensions as well as everyone else. But if you're looking at the way you were saying it, then we're sending a fake message. So, the problem of Croatia is what we said yesterday that the minimum salary of 2900 kuna and with that basis these people tomorrow cannot have a salary greater than 2400, 2500 kuna that is the problem of Croatia. The problem of Croatia is 1400 and how many employees we have, in fact a million and 400. We that at this point we have 2 million 100 or 2 million 200 employees we would not have this negative ratio between paid pensions and collected contributions. And that's our problem! And that's the problem I was talking about as a minister while I was here, while I was in power. So, I wasn't running away from him, and today I'm going to talk about him because that's the real problem of a colleague and a colleague. And until we accept it as a problem that is there and that if you look at the deficit of the state budget as 10 billion kuna, and that is the minus of the Peace Fund, so I'm talking about the pension and management costs of the Peace Fund, 16 billion kuna, then we're not funding that minus in the pension system, but we've still taken 6 billion kuna of tax revenue. That's about 3.5% of the VAT rate, 3.5 percentage points. And that's our problem! And now watch someone say that from the HDZ that's been talking about it for 10 years, see when I talked about it as a parliamentary representative there in 2001, 2002, when the budget was being passed, that's the problem. And if someone's been talking for 10 years, it's exactly the same. I don't understand that. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]] And look, and that's why I said at the beginning from correctness to colleagues in retirement, from the correctness of what's been going on in recent years that if we don't take it, I'm just asking you one more sentence, Mr. Vice President, and if we don't do something, we'll have the same report for 2012, 2013 and 2014 and I'll talk about that report just like I'm talking about today no matter what it is in the power of SDP and HNS at that time. Here's my colleague, Radosh, you can laugh all you want, we'll see, we'll be alive in a few months and we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34023	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. The first one came up with Zlatko Komadin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34024	Well, I only wanted to say one line, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, to Mr. Shucker when he mentioned defense pensions. I mean, every pension paid out of the pension system is on the burden of that system and that defense system, but I wanted to remind you a little bit about how the state refers to another category of Croatian defenders, which is those who defended Croatia in World War II. As far as I can remember, they had halved pensions, halved by the establishment of the Croatian state are those people because someone must have concluded that they were on the wrong side. I remember correctly that I told my late father that my old man seemed to have fought on the wrong side. And as far as I know, in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it says it was created on anti-fascism fluids, right? As for the other day, I had a debate in one place about the pension system. She's a little weird, but I'll just tell you a part of that story. For example, in a country that has a small unemployment rate, I would still understand this story if it were up to 67, 70 or life. I'd understand that. But in a country that has this number of unemployed, my impression is purely mathematical, so you'd better send these seniors to retirement before 65, so that these young people from the Bureau are working so there'd be 30,000 less unemployed of these younger ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34025	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34026	My colleague Komadin, I have protected those who, unfortunately, are very often the most attacked, and we use them when we need to talk about how they did something. But look, the NOR participant has 33,000 806. I'll say what some colleagues, not you, but some colleagues with your political options speak of the number of defenders. So I'll say Tito had so many fighters, the Germans wouldn't be until '43. in the area of the former Yugoslavia. These are people who are now 80 or 90 years old. As we understand each other, I'm a legalist, and everyone gets the kind of pension he's legally defined. Most of these pensions are by solution from the time of the former Yugoslavia and then the salaries were 200, 300 marks or if you turn into euro 150 euros, that's 1000 and something else kuna average salary. And here we're talking about the average pension since 2006. So this average pension is about 2.5 average earnings from the time of Yugoslavia. And when we talk about Croatian defenders then we talk about living data, we talk about the average salary that Croatian citizens get today, at the same time live and earn with those Croatian defenders. They worked, some have a higher pension than 45% of the average salary, but we said that those who have a lower pension than 45% that 45% is some kind of minimum that the defenders of the Homeland War should have. And also, someone's probably brought in some kind of revaluation or some kind of amendment to the NOR Act, so no one could just end it. So I guess my retired colleagues can confirm or deny that it's something that's inherited, that's probably not a certain revaluation on certain areas, but you have to understand that sometimes in Yugoslavia, the salary of 200 marks, 250 marks was something that's real.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34027	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34028	And if on that basis you have a pension, you've left your pension in 85, then you need to know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34029	Thank you. Next replica Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34030	Oh, dear fellow Shuker does three things I answered the line. The first is that you were talking about the collected contributions, but we must never forget about about 5 billion more collected contributions that are transferred to the 2nd pillar of pension insurance. It is not the subject of this debate, it is not within the scope of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute but are the contributions made. In other words, for 10 years we have been meeting in various situations here in the Croatian Parliament, the Government, but you can't find me even one moment when HSU said anything against the reception and status of defenders and anything related to their pensions. But in one we haven't, but no, listen to me until the end it's not an attack that we understand each other, but what I'm saying is that from the beginning we're saying that exactly what's earned by the contributions and belongs to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office means on the basis of the payment of contributions and years of internships from what's right under special laws, and let it be funded, that funding separates. Because if you'll excuse me a moment ago, I'll give you one more argument, you just mentioned the relationship, you connected the minimum wage and the lowest pension, right? No, well, but minimum wage products, minimum wages produce the lowest pension can't do anything else, there's nothing else. [[Intruder: No.]] But know that in the lowest pensions there are about 400 kunas per month of the welfare but not the welfare of the state, but the receiving of pensioners with the lowest pension in such a way that those who have been given more pensions are removed, so because of the system that is such and therefore the lowest pension as the protection category that is correct but is not the influence of the state budget and the state but is solidarity among the pensioners themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34031	Thank you. And the last replica, Comrade Schamper, go ahead. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34032	So, my colleague Hrelja in his debate on behalf of the club and 15 minutes, and now that's exactly what I want to say all the time. So the Croatian defenders who retired had some kind of working age, some full-time. They were paying some kind of contribution and therefore we can't classify them with the full amount of their pension that they didn't pay. So that's what I'm talking about, that's what I'm talking about, and I just want to say it here and publicly because they're pushing all the time. Here's the information someone who doesn't understand the matter will say that from the state budget, in fact, pensioners pay nearly 5 billion kuna to Croatian defenders. But we're here, if we're gonna solve this problem, we're gonna sort things out. Because look no matter who's in power can't get away from the fact that 36 billion kuna per year needs to be provided for pensions, and that he can't collect more than 20 billion from the contributions at this point. So that's a fact we can't escape from. I also made it clear here, as I said in 2009 so they butchered me so that it would be wise to abolish the 2nd pillar of pension and reduce public debt for that amount and that simply all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have a pension based on the 1st pillar because at this very moment we are simply creating forgive a social, very endangered social category in the coming years. Because without a 10% retirement in the second pillar, it can't be a decent pension given the pay now. If we talk about some kind of economic growth, some future period, and that means an increase in wages, so what happens if someone with 300 euros lives in the EU with these kind of salary and payments in the 2nd pillar of retirement tomorrow. What are we talking about? So these are the topics to talk about. Every touch in retirement, look at the inclusion of 100 kuna plus 6% basically cost 90 million the first year. Look how much it costs after nine years, not after nine, but after... A billion and 300 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34033	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34034	And that's the problem of reforming the pension system that you have to watch what's going to happen financially in 10 years and whether it's based on some macroeconomic evaluations that will be able to finance or not. And we, unfortunately, and by changing the law in 2002 and 2004, didn't do it right, and that's why we have what we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34035	Thank you, fellow Shuker. And now the replica of fellow Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34036	Comrade Shuker, you've been saying a lot about the problems of ratios and insurance and less collection of contributions, for three years we've been somewhere at 19 billion. I have to remind by analyzing the number of insurance companies to see what period it occurred in. So when I see the 98th difference from 2011 to around 21,000 insurance companies is even more. The problem occurred between 90 and 98 when we lost 497 thousand insurance, and in the meantime we got 300 thousand new pensioners. This is one of the problems with collecting contributions and the ratio of insurance and pensioners. Another major problem that is often not talked about and has a major impact on the position of new pensioners. We know that today they have 19% less pensions than those who left until 98. What's this about? It is a calculation of the current value of pension 31.12 in 1998, which is calculated. It was done by the Mother's Government, which was calculated on the basis of stolen pension levels from 93-98. All donations, 100 kuna and 6% received by senior pensioners and who entered the compensation is not the adjusted current value of the pension and therefore 640 thousand new pensioners today have a 19% lower pension or 462 kuna on average. That's three and a half billion a year. It is a big problem and who will solve it even when it solves the economic and financial situation. That's not to be said, but it must never be forgotten because they are now a majority category. We've always compared ourselves to the elderly. Now the older ones are under 500 grand and the new ones are heading towards a million.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34037	Thank you and my colleague Shucker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34038	You've just confirmed what I've been saying all along. When reforming the pension system, then all pensioners must be covered. Don't touch just one group. Simply certain economic developments in plus or minus can be thrown into a single group as it happened with this, so we passed that law on equalising pensions and so on. However, the fact is that we at the Croatian Pensions Institute have to provide 36 and a half billion kuna every year without indecency and collect 19 billion contributions and now we can talk as much as we want. We can talk like this, pensioners like that. Both these and them. We've got to get these people that minimum. And that's our problem. And we need to see if we go to the next reform of the pension system to make a reform that will be fiscal, sustainable for the next 20 years. Because at this point, we have three groups of pensioners. The fourth one will appear to you when there is the first significant number of pensioners to retire in one part of the first and second pillars of the pension. These are facts we can't run from. We can't close our eyes. Here's the Temple, and here's the end, and you've been to not one meeting. I've been talking about it for years, and I'm gonna talk about it all the time because that's the problem. After all, I consider it my obligation as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and a representative in this assembly. And that's what I was talking about when I was a minister. So while I was fighting how to secure the funds, I didn't say anything different than I did today. And when I said things didn't work out. I said it because they simply couldn't finance themselves, not because someone wouldn't give it to someone, but I repeat this report is just a message to everyone because it's going to be exactly the same for 2012. There's no change. Here is colleague Vukovic, so we can say that we need to start thinking about a burning problem in the Republic of Croatia and that we have to solve it because obviously that reform we made 99 without increasing the second pillar of the pension does not drink water anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34039	Thank you. And the final name of the promoter Mr. Srecko Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I don't want 30 minutes, it says 30 minutes, I won't talk that much. Very briefly, in the end, only a few answers to questions raised in the meantime. Not in the order but therefore in the system of the State Treasury we are to be accurate data 1.7.2001. we are in the system of the Treasury and us and health insurance. As far as separation is concerned, it is certainly necessary and necessary. So that's what this is about. We, too, have assessed both in the office and in the ministry that this is important in order to create even assumptions about the current situation and for a more serious pension reform. So we need to see what is paid through the contributing system and what is a clean special regulation. It's not a simple task. 170 thousand or over 170 thousand such users are pensions. It wasn't that way, it wasn't data, and we actually have to sort of rotate all 170 thousand people to get the right information, and then that real data is a prerequisite for everything else. So we're working on whether it's going to be in this next report, so it's going to be a little different or not we're going to try at least partially to answer that. As regards the payment or recognition of internships by the basis of the unpaid contribution, therefore, according to the rules of compulsory payment of contributions, the employer is for people working in enterprises and, if not paid, all those working with the employer have the right to intern, so it is a little different from the independent activities. So, for company workers, in companies, in public administration wherever the contributions aren't paid, the internship belongs. That's how it's supposed to be. As for relations in the region with recognition, there are therefore interstate agreements that regulate with each former republic of the former Yugoslavia, the issue, of course, works much better with some. We have some problems with some countries, such as the BiH or parts of Republika Srpska, where we have much longer procedures in spite of all our efforts, the conversations we have in some way, attempts to influence speed, but unfortunately, our hands are often tied there. There was still a question of fighters crazy and their numbers. Most of it is family pensions. I don't have the exact information at this point, but we're going to sort of as a representative question, then we're going to answer it specifically in that whole group of how many pensions there are. I think Mr. Boric asked that question. So specific, and maybe I forgot something, but I hope I didn't. What I would like to say is that I thank all those who have praised not only the report but also the work of the HZMO which is indeed an institution that lasts 90 years, an institution that has its very good side and has its weaknesses. All these weaknesses of management at the Bureau are trying and will try as quickly and as best as possible to eliminate them as effectively as possible. For the most part, we'll try to make a breakthrough in connecting what's been said about connecting with other institutions, but we're left with a different approach, and not at the level of some kind of facade and some simple phrase, but really different approach to every insurance guy, the user. We have to become that popular to say, but this service of the citizens so that the man who comes to the Mirovinski Institute, and it's such a little impression today, although the Peace Institute is doing a great job and doing its job well, and all the people who work there or most people are really doing their job well, but the impression or I would say the echo of it is not like that, and we have to change it anyway, so I think we have a good prerequisite for all of us who work there for it. And what may be most important, even though I say this report of the Pension Insurance Institute but a good part of the time and in the report itself, but also in the debate was spent on the assessment of the status of the pension insurance system of generational solidarity, I think that the general pension insurance system in Croatia has indeed matured for one serious reform, a reform that will be very carefully carried out on the basis of the analysis that we will best give in HZMO, with the help of course of other experts in Croatia through economic institutions and various other institutions that can help. This reform must really be set on a long term, and what I might think is that most of it, after all, has to have a consensus just because it's been working 20, 30 years in advance. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34041	Thank you, Mr. Vukovic. I thank your associates, too. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We continue tomorrow with the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-03-14-0.u34042	Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Fund for 2011. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - the report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2011. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed conclusion accepted by most votes, 81 votes to 21 votes against. Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament, respected fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Let me first remember that in 2011 the Croatian Parliament passed a Law which found that on 16 March it was mentioned people's protection in the Republic of Croatia. So in the wind of war-related casualties thanks to the composition of the Croatian people 22 years ago, the national protection units were founded with the primary goal of defending the legitimate authority of the citizens and of the Croatian state. Today, after a little over two decades of that time, we can say people's protection was one of the factors of peace and stability that did not allow incidents and independent actions, and its creation was timely and expressed the fundamental interest of the Croatian people in defending the homeland, i.e. In our Homeland War. Without paid seats and with no material interest in entering national protection, national protection was an expression of the real need of Croatian citizens, the desire of Croatian people, as well as the expression and demonstration of Croatian unity in the defence of the country. With deep respect for the huge contribution of the people's protection volunteers in the Homeland War, I call on my colleagues and fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament to pay tribute to the dead members of the national protection for a minute of silence. For a minute of silence, let their glory be eternal, and thank you. - Praise them! - Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues, we continue the plenary session according to the established agenda.
